CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 422 PAK
Project Agreement
(Third Karachi Port Project)
*                               BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI
DATED JULY 19, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 422 PAK
Project Agreement
(Third Karachi Port Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI
DATED JULY 19, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and THE
TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI (hereinafter called the Board).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000),
on the terms anc conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the Board agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($17,750,000) is to be reltnt by the
Borrower to the Board out of the proceeds of the Credit on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Board, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Board shall carry out Parts I through V of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with proper administrative, financial, port and
engineering practices, and, save in respect of the Grant to be provided by the


﻿4
Borrower in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement, shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association:
(i)         in order to assist it in the supervision of the construction of
the quay structure and transit sheds included in Part I(a) of
the Project, and of Part III of the Project;
(ii)        in order to inspect and certify progress in the carrying out of
Part II of the Project; and
(iii)       in carrying out Part V of the Project.
(b)   The Board shall submit the study provided for in paragraph (b) of
Part V of the Project, together with its recommendations in respect of the
implementation thereof, to the Association not later than December 31, 1974.
Section 2.03. The Board in carrying out Parts I through III of the Project
shall employ qualified and experienced contractors.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The Board undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Board to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Board shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to the
Board by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.06. (a) The Board shall furnish to \the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents, construction and
procurement schedules, reports and studies for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Board: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
the Board
Section 3.01. (a) The Board shall at all times take all steps necessary on
its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   The Board shall at all times maintain its financial position, plan its
future expansion and conduct its operations under competent and experienced
management, in accordance with proper administrative, financial, port and
engineering practices.
(c)   The Board, in accordance with proper port and engineering practices,
shall at all times renew, repair and maintain in good and substantial condition,
its buildings, facilities, plant, equipment and machinery or, as regards the Napier
Mole Road Bridge included in the Project, cause the same to be so repaired and
maintained.
(d)   Except in the normal course of business, the Board shall not, without
the prior approval of the Association, sell, transfer, distribute or otherwise dispose
of any of its property or assets which shall be required for its efficient operation
and the sale, transfer, distribution or disposal of which would adversely affect the
Board's ability to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿6
(e)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall not
create or permit to be created any mortgage, pledge, charge or other lien on any
of its property or assets; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
Section shall not apply to (i) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing
a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
Section 3.02. The Board shall make provision satisfactory to the Association
for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate port practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Provisions
Section 4.01. The Board shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Board shall: (i) have its accounts ind financial statements
(balance sheets, revenue and expenditure accounts and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Acccuntant General, Pakistan Revenues or by other independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of its accounts and financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the audit report by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Board and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Save as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall
not, prior to the Closing Date, make any investment or undertake any development
relating to cargo handling or port facilities or otherwise to the business of the
Board (other than the carrying out of the investment program of the Board as
from time to time agreed between the Board and the Association) which would
result in estimated capital expenditures by the Board exceeding in any fiscal year
the equivalent of $2,000,000.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board
shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue for the Board's fiscal year next


﻿7
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal
year on all the Board's debt, including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract
or agreement, on the date and to the extent that it is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or
agreement and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date
the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered
into but shall be counted only to the extent that the underlying
debt is outstanding;
(iii)       the term   "net revenue" means the %.ross operating revenue
accruing from the Board's services, adjusted to take account of
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less all
operating and administrative expenses, taxes (if any) and
adequate maintenance, but before provision for depreciation and
debt service requirements;
(iv)        the term   "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on debt; and
(v)         whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary
to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the rate
of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the
Board, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) The Board shall, in consultation with the Association, take
from  time to time all necessary steps within its power (including, but without


﻿8
limitation, adjustments of its tariff structure and/or rates) as shall be required to
provide revenues sufficient to produce an annual rate of return on the value of
the Board's net fixed assets in operation of not less than 4% in respect of each
of six fiscal years of the Board 1976 through 1981 and of not less than 7% in
respect of the fiscal year 1982 and each subsequent fiscal year of the Board.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)          The annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets of the Board in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that year.
(ii)         The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" means the
gross book value of such assets (less the amount of accumulated
depreciation) as valued from   time to time in accordance with
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation
acceptable to the Association.
(iii)        The term "operating income" means the gross operating revenue
accruing  from   the Board's services less all operating and
administrative expenses, taxes (if any), adequate maintenance
and depreciation but excluding interest and other charges on
debt.
Section 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Board shall
set by July 1, 1975 and thereafter maintain its tariff structure so as to:
(a)   promote the efficient utilization of its services and facilities, in
particular by encouraging port users, through means of incentives and rebates, to
accelerate ship turn-round times; and
(b)   ensure that the charges for its several services and facilities shall be
not less than the direct operating and maintenance costs of providing the same.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Board shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the Board shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange


﻿9
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Board and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. (a) The Board shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning its administration, operations and financial condition;
(b)   The Association and the Board shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any of them
of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Board shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Board and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
the Board hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Board of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Board:
The Trustees of the Port of Karachi
Karachi
Pakistan
Cable address:
PORTRUST
Karachi
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Board may be taken or executed by the Chairman of the Board and two
other Trustees.
Section 7.03. The Board shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons


﻿11
who will, on behalf of the Board, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Board pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto, duly
authorized, and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / William Diamond
for Regional Vice President
Asia
THE TRUSTEES OF THE PORT OF KARACHI
By /s/ S. Zahid Hasnain
Chairman
By /s/ Rustom F. Cowasjee
Trustee
By /s / Ahmed Raza
Trustee


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more or
with respect to any contract for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to be prequalified, the Board shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be
followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association
shall reasonably request. The list of bidders recommended for prequalification
together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Board to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Board shall
make such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Board shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Board shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, in the case of Parts
1(a) and III of the Project by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02(a)(i)
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award, in the cases hereinbefore mentioned of the
said consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Board and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise
the Board of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿13
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works or equipment, the Board
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Board and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise
the Board of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.


