FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK F6R RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Uxs
Report 'o. 258a-PH
PHILIPPINES
APPRAISArL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 19, 1973
Transportation Division
Asia Region
iThis report was prepared- for ofriCial use only by the Bank Group. It rnay not be published, quoted|
|or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
laccuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Pesos (P)
US$1           =    P 6.80
P 1            =    US$0.15
P 1 million    =    US$147,059
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   =               3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      2                       0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km)       =               0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                               2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)                          1.1 US short tons (sh tons)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       =    Asian Development Bank
BOC       =    Bureau of Customs
BPH       =    Bureau of Public Highways
BPW       =    Bureau of Public Works
DPWTC     =    Department of Public Works, Transportation
& Communications
ER        =    Economic Return
GNP       =    Gross National Product
HSF       =    Highway Special Fund
NDP       =    Net Domestic Product
NEDA      =    National Economic Development Authority
PAL       =    Philippine Air Lines
PNR       =    Philippine National Railways
UNDP      =    United Nations Develcpment Programme
vpd       =    vehicles per day
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



P:FILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMI{ARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...................... i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION   ............... *.........  ............. #.. .... 1
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .2..    ................... .   2
A. Economic Setting                  ..2
B. Transport Modes..                                     2
C.  Transport Planning and Coordination.                 4
III. HIGHWAYS...                                                5
A. The Network.                              ...... .   5
B.  Highway Traffic ... ....     .............    6
C. Administration...                                     8
D.  Planning and Financing ....................,*        8
E.  Design and Construction .....    .....................  10
F.  Maintenance .......   ...............................  10
G.  Training         .........................................  11
IV.  THE PROJECT      ..............................................  11
A.  Description  ................................... ...  11
B.  Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component  ....  16
C.  Execution         ........................................  18
D.  Financing   ........  ............................. ...  20
E.  Disbursements .............. ....... .......... ..    20
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................................  21
A.  General         ..........................................  21
B.  Construction of Expressway           .      .       22
C.  Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads .  25
D.  Rehabilitation of Minor Roads ................ ....  26
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........ * ......   27
This report has been prepared by Messrs. H.J. van Helden (Consultant),
A;F. Ballereau (Economist), ;7K.V.S.K. Nathan (Engineer) and S.A. Faruqi
(Young Professional).  Messrs. M.W. Dickerson (Engineer) and G. Morra
(Training Officer) assisted the mission on technical assistance and
training matters.



-2-
ANNEX
A.   Description of Project Roads
TABLES
1.   Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1968 and 1971
2.   Public Transport Investment Programs, FY 1968-72 and PY 197A-77
3.   Public Highway Network, 1972
4.   Motor Vehicle Statistics, FY 1962-72
5.   Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, FY 1962-71
6.   Expenditures by Highway Works and Source of Funds, FY 1962-72
7.   Expenditures on Highways by Road System, FY 1962-72
8.   Highway User Charges, FY 1962-71
9.   Highway Design Standards
10.   Minor Roads Identified for Rehabilitation
11.   List of Roads for Reconnaissance Study
12.   Estimated Detailed Project Costs
13.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
14.   Estimated Traffic Growth on Project Roads
15.   Traffic Volumes on Project Roads
16.   Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings on Project Roads, 1976
17.   Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams for Construction of Expressway
18.   Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams for Reconstruction and
Improvement of National Roads
19.   Economic Returns and Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
IBRD 8045 Department of Public Works, Transportation and Communications
IBRD 7890 Organization of the Bureau of Public Highways
MAPS
IBRD 10674 Luzon Island
IBRD 10675 Philippines



PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The demand for transport in the Philippines is expanding at a
higher rate than the average growth of the economy. However, despite past
investments, the transport infrastructure is not satisfactory mainly because
of insufficient maintenance and inadequate standards. It is thus unable
to cope with present level of traffic. Despite the slower growth of the
economy between 1970 and 1972, transport demand is still far from satisfied
and is likely to grow rapidly in the future as economic growth picks up.
ii.       Expenditures in the transport sector are very high, representing
about 50% v" the public capital formation. The investment share for highways
is over two-thirds of the expenditures in the transport sector, reflecting
the dominant role of this mode which carries about 80% of passenger movement
and 60% of freight. The recent reorganization of the Bureau of Public
Highways (BPH), under the Department of Public Works, Transportation and
Communications (DPWTC) will help to improve planning and coordination of
highway investments; it will also provide a better data collection together
with an improved processing of road transport information.
iii.      The present highway network is inadequate to carry the level of
traffic on national highways. The proposed FY 1974/77 public investment
program for roads has almost tripled compared to the previous program and
should meet part of the general targets in the highway network. These targets
are: (i) the reconstruction and realignment of certain major trunk routes;
(ii) the paving and/or strengthening of virtually all national highways,
and those provincial highways with high traffic volumes; (iii) the improve-
ment of the condition of gravelled and unsurfaced minor roads, chiefly
through improved maintenance; and (iv) the institution of an adequate system
to maintain paved highways.
iv.       The Bank has previously &. --* 5ted the Government in the transport
sector with a loan of US$8.5 million in 1971 (290-PH) for the purchase of
dredging equipment; a loan of US$8.0 million iè- 1971 (731-PH) for :he First
Highway Project, and recently negotiated a loan of US$6.1 million for tne
improvement of port facilities.
v.        The Second Highway Project will include the construction of 51 km
of expressway; reconstruction and improvement of 640 km of national roads;
rehabilitation of about 700 km of minor roads; consulting services for
supervising construction and improvement of project roads, for feasibility
studies and engineering of 137 km of national ro-. s all on Luzon, for
detailed engineering to prepare two future highway projects, and for
continuing technical assistance and training; the services of a foreign
expert for setting up a project preparation and supervision office and the
procurement of weighbridges. The project also includes UNDP-financed



- ii -
reconnaissance study and feasibility studies for preparation of future
projects.
vi.       The construction and improvement works and the procurement of
weighbridges will all be carried out by contract on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. Supervision of construction will be carried out by consultants,
except for two roads engineered by the BPH which it will also supervise with
the assistance of some foreign technical personnel.  The reconnaissance
study, feasibility studies, training services and most of the detailed
engineering, will be carried out by experienced foreign consultants assisted
by domestic firms. The estimated cost of the project is US$128.2 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$65.9 million. The loan will
finance US$65.0 million of the foreign costs and US$3.0 million of local
costs for flood damaged minor roads.
vii.      The benefits from the construction and improvement of th^ highways
will be mainly to lower vehicle operating costs by improving the highway
network which has suffered from poor maintenance, and from the 1972 flood
disaster. The expressway, on which tolls will be levied on an experimental
basis, will relieve traffic congestion. The improved roads will also serve
agricultural production areas of the rich central Luzon plain by easing access
to markets which is now hampered by periodic floods. The preparation of
possible Third and Fourth Highway Projects will spread highway development
to other important islands and improve social and economic parity among the
island populations. The high investment in roadworks is also expected to
relieve present heavy unemployment.
viii.     The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$68.0 million equivalent to the Government of the Philippines for a 24-year
term, including four years of grace, reflecting the estimated economic life
of the construction element of the project.



PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of the Philippines has requested the
Bank's assistance to help finance a Second Highway Project consisting of:
(a) construaction of 51 km of expressway from Burol to Angeles; (b) reconstruc-
tion and improvement of 640 km of national highways: Malinta-Rosario, San
Fernando-Gapan, San Fernando-Olongapo, Taytay-Calamba, Santo Tomas-Batangas,
Tagaytay-Las Pinas, Tarlac-Lingayen, Dagupan-Damortis, and Santa Barbara-
Calasiao; (c) rehabilitation of 700 km of flood damaged minor roads;
(d) consulting services for supervising construction and improvement of
the project roads, all on Luzon, for feasibility studies and engineering of
137 km of national roads, for detailed engineering studies to prepare two
future hi, -' projects, and for continuing technical assistance and training;
(e) the services of an expert for setting up a project preparation and super-
vision office; and (f) the procurement of weighbridges. Also, the project
includes UNDP financing of reconnaissance and feasibility studies of about
1,800 km of national and minor roads for the preparation of future projects.
The project forms part of the Government's infrastructure program (FY1974/77).
The estimated cost of the total project is US$128.2 million, with a proposed
Bank participation of US$68.0 million.
1.02      The Bank's previous assistance in financing the transport infra-
structure has involved a port project (Loan 290-PH in 1961 for US$8.5 mil-
lion), and a highways project (Loan 731-PH in 1971 for US$8.0 million).
Experience on the port project for the procurement of dredging equipmerit,
was unsatisfactory due to failure to operate and maintain the dredge  in an
efficient manner and about US$1.1 million was cancelled.  The First F.g  way
Project, which included the construction and improvement of the Cotabato-
Digos road in Mindanao, was in general progressing satis£actorily until
March 1973 when the work was suspended for about two months because of civil
disturbances in the Cotabato Province. In May 1973, the contractor moved
his operations to the other end of the road at Digos and has reslunt  wo
The First Highway Project also provided technica1L assistance  cr c:gawi a-
tional improvements which helped in the strengthening of the Bureau of
Public Highways (BPH) and in the setting up of maintenance organiza-ions in
two pilot regions, but more effort is required for the implementation of
procedures and operations. A loan for a second port project in the amount
of US$6.1 million was approved by the Board in October 1973.
1.03      This report is based on information provided by the Government and
its consultants, and on the findings of an appraisal mission in June 1973
composed of Messrs. H. J. van Helden (Consultant), A. F. Ballereau (Economist),
K. V. S. K. Nathan (Engineer) and S. A. Faruqi (Young Professional). Messrs.
M. W. Dickerson (Engineer) and S. Morra (Training Officer) assisted the mis-
sion on technical assistance and training matters.



-2-
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2.0j      The Philippines is an archipelago comprising some 7,000 islands
with a land area of about 300,000 km2, which is roughly the same size as
Italy.  Luzon, with Manila the capital, and Mindanao are the two largest
islands and mike up about two-thirds of the area. They also account for
about three-quarters of the present population of 39 million. The annual
population growth rate, 3% during 1960-70, is one of the highest in the
world.
2.02      Agriculture, including forestry, is the mainstay of the country's
economy but has grown only at 1.2% p.a. since 1970. It generates nearly 31%
of the Net Domestic Product (NDP)  accounts for about 65% of export earnings
(coconut, forestry products and sugar), and employs about 50% of the labor
force. Manufacturing and mining, growing at 7.8% p.a., account for about 21%
of the NDP, a larger share than in Malaysia, Thailand or Indonesia. The
Philippines has scope for further development of its abundant natural resources,
with particular potential in tropical agriculture, forestry, mining (copper,
gold, iron, chrome and nickel) and tourism. However, recent performance of
the economy has been somewhat disappointing, with a real GNP increase of
about 5% a year compared with 6% between 1960-70, and a real gross national
income per capita stagnating at about US$200 since 1970. However,
economic growth is now picking up and may be quite rapid next year. The
rate of unemployment has increased to over 8% and is particularly high in
larger urban areas such as Greater Manila (13%).
B. Transport Modes
General
2.03      The latest statistics available on the demand for transport in
the Philippines are estimates of the Philippine Transport Survey of 1968.
It is, therefore, difficult to give an accurate view of the recent evolution
of the sector, its growth rate and the present relative share of the different
transport modes. The past growth rate of this sector is probably higher than
the GNP growth and might be of the order of 7 to 10% p.a. Road transport is
the dominant mode within the .wc major islands and probably accounts for
nearly 60% of the total freight movement, and for over 80% of passenger
.raffic (Table 1). Inter-islanc and coastal shipping is the second largest
.ransport mode, serving a population scattered over hundreds of islands,
and accounts probably for abou. 40% of freight traffic and less than 8% of
passenger movemert.  The railroad is of marginal importance, hampered by
short inland distances and poor management, and carries a small fraction of
the total traffic. Domestic aviation; although of small importance, is
developing rapidly, mainly serving passenger traffic.



-3-
2.04      Investments in the transport sector are relatively important and
accounted for over 50% of the public capital formation in the last investment
period from FY 1968 to FY 1972, but still barely represented 1% of the GNP
per year (Table 2). However, these expenditures were insufficient to cope
with transport demand and to eliminate the bottlenecks of the transport
infrastructure. The transport network has deteriorated considerably in
recent years, as maintenance suffered from inadequate funding and poor
administration.  Also, undue political interference and expediency have
seriously hampered rational transport planning and efficient project
execution. Many new tax measures proposed by the Government did not pass
the Congress, in particular the measures proposed to increase taxes on
gasoline and other fuels to a level that would provide the local currency
needed to finance the transport investment program, as well as the peso
counterpart to the foreign financed projects. The lack of finances has
made it impossible either to maintain or to improve basic transportation
facilities to an adequate level. This has resulted in an unsatisfactory
condition of the highway and road network, insufficient capacities in the
principal ports, and general lack of adequate standards and maintenance
operations in all modes of transport. However, tax reforms introduced
over the last year together with the recent decision of the Government to
increase substantially taxes on gasoline and other fuels, have notably
increased funds available for public infrastructure investment. Much of the
difficulty in developing sound transport policies and investments in the past
has been due to a lack of statistical and other information regarding the
transport sector.
Highways
2.05      The present highway system is insufficiently maintained and of
inadequate standards to serve even the current level of traffic. Only 39%
of national highways and 12% of provincial roads are paved. A continued
high level of investment in highways will be required. Details are given
in Chapter III.
Railways
2.06      The only railway of significance is the Government-owned Philippine
National Railways (PNR), which has about 1,000 km of main line and 1,000 km
of branch lines on the island of Luzon. About 760 km of PNR's track was relaid
during the 1960's with Japanese aid. The remainder is in very poor condition.
Management of the railways has been poor, maintenance of facilities inadequate
and operations inefficient and unprofitable. The main line is paralleled by
highways for most of its length, and as haulage distances of most commodities
are relatively short, it is dif-ficult to visualize that the railway will ever
be competitive with road trucks and buses without the assistance of Government
subsidies. However, since the PNR is an important employer, it would be
difficult for the Government to close it down and the Government's present
objective is to improve its ope-atioris to permit the railroad to cover at
least current operating costs.



-4-
Ports
2.07      There are about 90 national and 390 municipal ports throughout the
Philippine archipelago, plus numerous private piers and wharves. The long-
established public ports have generally been sited with a view to natural
protection and, in many cases, this has resulted in sedimentation problems.
The more modern private piers and wharves, which handle 80%-85% of export
shipments, have generally been located to take advantage of natural deep
water. Swell is generally a problem only during typhoons and many ports
have been able to dispense with expensive breakwaters. Most of the public
ports are poorly maintained and have not been designed for modern cargo-
handling techniques. Sheds are often lacking, although private warehouses
are usually available nearby. Cargo-handling is generally in the hands of
private companies and in many ports there is a lack of equipment. Manila,
the largest port, accounts for about 70% of all imports and 5% of all exports.
2.08      Administration and control of the national ports were in the hands
of the Bureau of Customs (BOC) while physical planning, construction and
maintenance were the responsibility of the Bureau of Public Works (BPW).
No satisfactory mechanism existed in the past for coordinating the
activities of BOC and BPW, with the result that port investments had often
been unrelated to port needs, and required maintenance neglected. A further
problem was the inadequacy of records in the BOC, making it impossible to
develop a sound data base for analyzing port and inter-island traffic
volumes by route, commodity breakdown, etc. A recent reorganization of
the Department of Public Works, 'ransportation and Communications (DPWTC)
is expected to improve the previous organization and develop an efficient
data collection system (para 2.10). The Government has agreed with the
Bank to establish a Philippine Port Authority, to become fully operational
by January 1976. It will take over the port related functions carried so
far by BOC and BPW.
Civil Aviation
2.09      Manila, the only international airport in the Philippines, is
served by 15 major international airl-nes, as well as by the Philippine
Air Lines (PAL), which has both -international and domestic services.  An
extensive network of domestic ai;ports is served by PAL and two other major
domestic carriers. Domestic passenger traffic has been increasing at about
17% p.a., with PAL carrying more than two-thirds of the traffic. Despite high
traffic growth, PAL has encounterec irncreasing financial difficulties over
the last two years due, in part, to an ambitious expansion program. Air
freight is still insignificant.
C. Transport PI..anning and Coordination
2.10      As a result of a recen: sweeping Government reoganization, transport
planning is now the joint responsibility of the National Economic Development
Authority (NEDA) and the DPWTC (Zhart,. Under the Office of the Secretary,



- 5 -
DPWTC, a Programming and Planning Division, which is part of the Planning
Service, will be responsible for intermodal transport planning (including
railways). A Board of Transportation is also to be created as a semi-
detached unit of the DPWTC to handle the quasi-judicial function of granting
routes to transport companies and prescribing rates, schedules and
regulations for their operations. A Bureau of Transportation in the same
Department, working within policy guidelines laid down by the Board of
Transportation, is to be responsible for the enforcement of regulations
concerning all modes of transport, except railways, and for operation of
ports and airports. The PNR remains responsible to the Office of the
President. How this organizational machinery will work in practice remains
to be seen, but exclusion of the railways from the jurisdiction of the
Bureau of Transportation militates against its effectiveness as an
instrument of transportation coordination.
2.11      The Government's Transport Infrastructure Investment Program
envisages a. expenditure of P 5,360 million during the period FY 1973/74 to
FY 1976/77 (Table 2). It is a rolling program and is periodically updated.
The program is ambitious compared with past performance during the period
FY 1967/68 to FY 1971/72 when only P 2,000 million was actually spent on
transport infrastructure. The proposed investment program, in the absence of
data on the total transport demand and by separate mode, is in part the result
of Government preferences rather than of a positive physical planning exercise.
The distribution of investment still reflects an absence of coordination in
planning, although some progress was made compared with the preceding period.
At this stage, where little has been spent on highways in the past and
investments of obvious high priority need to be made, the danger of misallocation
is still small. With the recent reorganization, it is expected that collection
of data on the transport sector, particularly for highways and ports, will be
greatly improved and will constitute in the future a sound basis for planning
of investments.
III. HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The public highway network totalling about 81,600 km, consists of
about 21,400 km of national roads, 28,100 km of provincial roads and 32,100 km
of city and country roads (Table 3). The national highways include about
47 km of four-lane toll expressways, with grade-separated intersections,
north and south of Manila. The principal highway artery in the country is
the 2,000 km long Pan Philippine highway, under construction, which will
extend from the north of Luzon to the south of Mindanao. Construction
or improvement of this road for aoout 1,300 km, financed with Japanese
assistance, started in 1970 but progress has been slow due to poor
supervision. With the recent reorganization of the BPH and technical
assistance by consultants, progress should improve and the road should be
completed in 1975. The average road density is 0.3 km of road/km2 of



-6-
land area, and 2.1 km of road/1,000 inhabitants. These compare with ratios
of 0.1 km of road/km2 and 1.3 km of road/1,000 inhabitants in Thailand;
and 0.4 km of road/km2 and 1.2 km of road/1,000 inhabitants in Korea.
3.02      The road density is generally sufficient to serve transport needs,
but the condition of most of the highway network is inadequate. Only 39% of
r.ational highways and 12% of the provincial highways are paved, (compared with
85% and 35% in Thailand).  However, paved and unpave.d roads are generally in
poor condition. Many roads were initially poorly designed and constructed,
and inadequate maintenance funds have caused serious deterioration, even
of high cost pavements. Damages to roads result also from the overloading
of trucks, which is common practice. Vehicle dimensions do not pose
any problem at the present time, and although legislation exists for both
control of vehicle loads and dimensions, the power to enforce regulations
needs strengthening.
3.03      In Luzon, the country's most densely populated area, frequent floods
further contribute to the deterioration of the roads. In particular, the
1972 flood disaster, which flooded the whole of central Luzon, including the
Greater Manila area, for an unusually long period, damaged a considerable
mileage of roads, including the minor road network. Although emergency repairs
to make the roads passable again have been completed, there is an urgent need
to improve the highway network, particularly with respect to: (i) the re-
construction and realignment of a few major trunk routes; (ii) the paving
and/or strengthening of virtually all national highways, and those provin-
cial highways with high traffic volumes; (iii) the improvement of the condi-
tion of gravelled and unsurfaced minor roads, chiefly through improved
maintenance; and (iv) the institution of an adequate system to maintain
paved highways.
B. Highway Traffic
3.04      Between 1962 and 1972, the motor vehicle fleet grew from about
200,000 to 500,000 at an average annual increase of 9.6% per annum, but
the growth fell to about 4% between 1970 and 1972 (Table 4). The vehicle
fleet is relatively large with 1 vehicle per 78 inhabitants compared with
I per 50 inhabitants in Thailand and 1 per 206 in Korea. About 80% of
the vehicles are registered in Luzon, half of which in the Greater Manila
area; 10% are in Mindanao and the rest in the other islands. There is
1 vehicle per 55 inhabitants in Luzon and 1 per 125 in Mindanao.
3.05      There is an automobile manufacturing industry, which consists
of the assembly of vehicles by several foreign car manufacturers and the
making of parts. In addition, there is a local small industry converting
jeeps into jeepneys.  About 12,500 vehicles are assembled in 1965,
increasing to 19,000 in i97% with various fluctuations and varying
proportions of passenger cars and commercial vehicles (Table 4). Import
and exchange controls in the early '60's made it virtually impossible to
import assembled cars and trucks on a commercial scale and the assembly



- 7 -
industry began to take shape. Further restrictions, however, resulted
in cutbacks in the importation of knocked-down parts and finally a ban
was imposed in 1969 until the industry could agree to a progressive car
manufacturing program acceptable to the Central Bank. A program was
implemented in 1972 and under this program, five companies are permitted
to assemble cars in the country.
3.06      Data on the growth of demand for road transport are not available
for recent years. Neither passenger traffic (pass-km) nor freight traffic
(ton-km) data on the road system are available. However, since 1970 the
growth of the vehicle fleet (4.1% p.a.) and the consumption of gasoline
(3.6% p.a.) (Table 5), indicate that there has been a fall in traffic
growth, compared with the 1962-70 period where rates of 11% and 8.8%
respectively were registered. The decrease might be attributed to the
slower growth of the GNP since 1970, and also to Governmentts exchange
and credit restrictions and the devaluation of the Peso.
3.07      Traffic counts on the national highways are taken twice a year by
BPH, at counting stations about 20 km apart. Although a significant amount
of traffic information is available, it is not processed in a useful manner
for planning purposes. Proposals to improve the system of traffic data
collection and processing have been recommended by the Kampsax/Berger
technical assistance team and will be implemented in the near future. During
loan negotiations, the Governmert agreed to submit for Bank's comment by
December 31, 1974 a proposal for an information system to collect and process
data on all transport modes, as required to plan investments in the transport
sector, including a schedule for its implementation, to become effective as
soon as possible thereafter.
3.08      Truck users handle 90% of trucking with their own vehicles; the
remainder is carried by general haulage companies. The low rates for general
haulage, regulated by the Government, do not make this activity very profita-
ble. These rates are to be reviewed by the new Bureau of Transportation with
a view to removing unfair restrictions and improving transport coordination.
Public bus transport is operated by private enterprise and regulated by
licensing. Taxi and bus transport, and to a certain extent, jeepneys, is
dominated by a few large companies. The share of passenger transport carried
by jeepneys, an extended jeep carrying some 12 to 16 people, is significant
in urban and rural areas. The transportation system and traffic management,
particularly in the Greater Manila area, are faced with serious traffic
congestion caused partly by the disorderly driving practice of jeepney
operators. Most jeepneys are driver-owned and the public finds them cheap
and convenient as they stop at any point on request. The Government
recently offered to issue one bus licanse for four jeepney licenses in the
Manila area, but the proposal, acceptable to larger companies, is
encountering considerable public opposition and does not appeal to the
driver-owners of single vehicles who form the majority of operators.



-8-
C. Administration
3.09      The responsibility for administering, constructing, maintaining,
and to some extent, planning of national highways is vested in the BPH, which
is part of the DPWTC. The BPH is headed by a Commissioner, assisted
by two Deputy Commissioners, one being the Chief Engineer who deals with
technical matters, and the other responsible for the staff and administrative
divisions. The present organization (chart), which largely follows the
recommendations made by the consultants for the UNDP-financed technical
assistance program, was implemented in May 1973. At the time of the appraisal
mission in June 1973, the Government was considering making BPH an independent
department; a decision was expected in the near future. Such a decision
would not, in practice, affect the internal organization of the BPH, but
could improve the efficiency of the highway planning and execution process.
3.10      The operations of highway maintenance and construction are the
responsibility of 11 regional offices, headed by a Regional Director.
Regions are sub-divided into districts or cities whose numbers vary with
the size of the region. There is a total of 133 districts or cities,
headed by a District or City Engineer. The mechanical services division of
the BPH is responsible for the maintenance and repair of road construction
and maintenance equipment. It has its own regional organizations, with
direct control of 7 base overhaul workshops (to be increased to 11 to
correspond to the 11 regions), and a number of area workshops and mobile
units, to be created by merging existing district repair shops. The division
rents equipment to the regions and districts at pre-set rental rates. As
the reorganization only recently occurred, it will take time before
operations are adjusted to it. To expedite and achieve this, the ongoing
UNDP-financed technical assistance, a Danish/US joint venture consulting
firm (Kampsax/Berger), is to be continued under the proposed project, both
at BPH headquarters and in the two pilot regions of Luzon and Cebu
(paras 4.12-4.13).
D. Planning and Financing
3.11      After the recent reorganization of the Government, administration
and planning responsibilities fcr transport were, to some extent, transferred
from NEDA to the DPWTC (para 2.10).  However, overall economic long-term
planning responsibility remains with NEDA, including decisions on funds to
be made available for infrastructure investments, including roads. It is
too early to judge how far the changes made will improve transport planning
and coordination. The establishment of a planning division, within the
BPH, to evaluate major road pro4ects and rank priorities among projects
proposed, will supplement the macro-economic planning of NEDA. The division
will plan, undertake and supervise the program of feasibility studies.
It will also have the responsibili,ty for programming the annual allocation
and disbursement of funds and prepare the highway component of the four-year
Development Plan.



- 9 -
3.12      A feature of the new organization is the setting up of a planning
section in each Regional Office to identify projects for studies, indicate
regional priorities and supervise the collection of traffic and accident data.
Priorities among investments in the various transport modes, however, will
be established only when the new Planning Service within the DPWTC becomes
fully operative and adequate data become available.
3.13      The Government plans to spend a total of P 3,900 million (US$577 mil-
lion) on highways under the next investment program (FY 74/77). This program
is over two times as large as the previous program (FY 68/72). Actual
construction expenditures amounted to between 50% and 60% of the total, while
maintenance accounted for about 30%, the remainder being administrative ex-
penditures (Tables 6 and 7). Between FY 1962 and FY 1972, total expenditures
increased at a rate of over 15% p.a. at current prices. During the period
FY 1962-1971, however, revenues from road user charges increased only at a
rate of 9%, which covered expenditures until FY 1966; thereafter, highway
revenues (Table 8) covered only between 50% and 70% of expenditures.
3.14      Almost two-thirds of the revenues are obtained from fuel oil taxes
and the remainder are contributed by motor vehicles fees, licenses and other
items including tolls levied on the two expressways north and south of
Manila. About 90% of total revenues are earmarked for the Highway Special
Fund (HSF), 9% for amortization fund and the remainder for other funds. The
HSF has so far been used to cover administrative expenses, expenditures for
maintenance, improvement and construction of national roads. In view of the
insufficiency of these funds, beginning in FY 1974 the HSF will be used to
cover only maintenance and minor improvements, while construction will be
financed from the general budget funds, Until FY 1970, general funds contri-
buted only about 10% of the total construction expenditures, but since then,
it met nearly half of these expenditures.
3.15      The inadequacy of the HSF was largely due to the extremely low rate of
gasoline taxes (9 centavos per liter), which had not been raised since 1956
although the refinery prices increased regularly, and the wholesale price
index rose from 103.1 in 1956 to 244.8 in 1971 (1955 = 100). The percentage
of taxation had therefore decreased considerably to only 29% of retail price,
making gasoline in the Philippines the cheapest in the world. Although
the Government was aware of this, it believed until recently that raising
gasoline taxes was politically infeasible, largely because it would lead to
an increase in the rates charged by the jeepneys which have an important role
in passenger transport in large cities such as Manila. By late October 1973,
however, the Government decided to raise very substantially the taxes on all
petroleum products, including gasoline and lubricants on which taxes were
increased by 75% and 43% respectively. The tax increases were immediately
effective and will help to finance the proposed highway investment program.



- 10 -
E. Design and Construction
3.16      The technical assistance consultants recommended that design and
construction for smaller works be delegated to the regions and districts, the
designs to be reviewed in headquarters; these recommendations are being
implemented. Larger projects are designed in headquarters; for design and
execution of very large projects, a project manager within the BPH may be
appointed to oversee the execution. In addition, consultants are now being
used for design and construction supervision of works financed by interna-
tional agencies, such as the Bank and ADB. Design standards appropriate
to Philippine conditions have been developed by BPH with the assistance
of consultants, and are satisfactory (Table 9).
3.17      Construction is carried out principally by contract.  However, except
for Bank and ADB-financed projects, inadequate planning and supervision have
led to unsatisfactory execution. The Government has agreed that an improve-
ment in BPH construction administration is required and that the technical
assistance extension included in the project will cover managerial assistance
to the construction division.
F. Maintenance
3.18      Road maintenance has been poor, principally due to insufficient
maintenance funds and unsatisfactory procedures. As a result of poor mainten-
ance and frequent overloading of trucks, many roads have been damaged to a
point where major repairs and strengthening of pavements are needed. Fol-
lowing the recommendations made by Kampsax/Berger, funds available for main-
tenance will triple those of the previous year, starting July 1973 as com-
pared with FY 73. In addition, maintenance operations will be improved over
the whole country by gradually applying better procedures which were in-
troduced in the two pilot regions under the First Highway Project. Main-
tenance will be properly programmed and executed by the Regional Offices
and supervised by BPH headquarters maintenance division.
3.19      Road maintenance has also suffered from unsatisfactory availability
and underutilization of equipment.  With the establishment of the mechanical
services division, the introduction of preventive maintenance, the programming
to purchase spare parts and simpler procedures for local purchase,
it is expected that equipment availability will be improved and road mainten-
ance will benefit.  Introduction of new procedures has been difficult due to
staffing and funding problems, and the performance within the pilot regions has
lagged behind expectations. In view of this, the Government has agreed that
the technical assistance progran should be continued under the present project.



- 11 -
G. Training
3.20      The Government acknowledges the need for trained manpower, particu-
larly of medium and low-level managers capable of efficiently supervising
the operations and administration of the BPH. It feels, however, that rather
than allocating funds exclusively to remedy the current shortage of trained
managers, a broader approach should be taken to include also the training of
non-managerial personnel. This would supplement the recommendations made by
Kampsax/Berger, which envisaged reliance only on the BPH's training section,
a subdivision of the administrative division, and other existing training
facilities, to improve the quality of BPH staff. The Government has agreed
to the inclusion in the project of an assessment of training needs, followed
by the formulation and implementation of an appropriate training program
(para 4.14).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Description
4.01      A UNDP-financed Transport Survey (1968-1970) carried out by the
consultants, Metra/Sauti (France and Italy), with the Bank as executing
agency, recommended a 10-year transport investment program, including a
list of high priority roads. The survey recommended, in particular, the
construction of the Japanese-financed Pan-Philippine highway running
north to south on the Philippine archipelago and of the Cotabato-Digos road
in Mindanao, financed by the Bank under the First Highway Project. The im-
portance of developing the national road network in Luzon Island was also
clearly stated and led to the selection of 1,200 km of roads for which
feasibility studies, also financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing
agency, were carried out in 1971-72, by Norconsult (Norway). Following
the findings of a Bank mission after the 1972 flood disaster which hit
Luzon, additional studies were carried out for 137 km of national roads
and for the preparation of a rehabilitation program of minor roads severely
damaged by the floods. Detailed engineering followed these studies for
the roads found feasible, all located in Luzon. These roads are part of
the proposed project.
4.02      The project consists of:
(a) the construction, on a new alignment, of a 51 km expressway
(5 km four-lane and 46 km two-lane) and 6 km access
roads;
(b) the reconstruction and improvement, chiefly on present
alignment, of nine national roads totaling 640 km in
length;



- 12 -
(c) the rehabilitation of about 700 km of minor roads,
leading to the national roads in (b);
(d) consulting services for: (i) construction super-
vision of the above roads; (ii) feasibility studies
and detailed engineering of 137 km of roads, included
in (b); (iii) the detailed engineering of roads for
the proposed Third and Fourth Highway Projects;
(iv) continuation of the ongoing technical assistance
program; and (v) the assessment of BPH training needs;
(e) the services of an expert for the setting up of a project
office to strengthen the BPH in the preparation and adminis-
tration of highway projects financed by the Bank and/or
others;
(f) the provision and installation of weighbridges for
control of axle loads on national roads; and
(g) consulting services, to be financed by UNDP, including
a reconnaissance study of about 1,800 km of national and
contiguous minor roads, and subsequent feasibility
studies of selected roads.
The Government has asked the Bank to finance the foreign exchange costs
of all the elements of the project, except item (g) for which financial
allocation has been earmarked by UNDP. A description of project roads is
given in Annex A and their location is shown on maps at the end of the
report. Design standards are shown on Table 9.
Construction of Expressway
4.03      The 51 km expressway between Burol and Angeles, included in the
project, is an extension of an existing four-lane toll expressway running
north from Greater Manila. Detailed engineering was carried out in 1972-73
by Norconsult, who also acted as coordinating consultants for the detailed
engineering of the other project roads; the latter arrangement assured
consistency in approach and standards, and in the preparation of the
contract documents for all roads.
4.04      Although the extension has been designed as a four-lane facility,
initially only two lanes will be built except for a four-lane stretch of
5 km from the end of the existing expressway to the Pan Philippine highway
interchange.  The two additional lanes will be constructed when traffic has
developed sufficiently to justify them. However, structures at interchanges
and road overpasses will be built for a four-lane facility.  The design
provides for flood protection by use of high embankments and includes a
5 km long viaduct where the road crosses a swamp area.  As a consequence,
the cost of road construction is high (para 4.17).  The 6 km of access roads
provide connections from the expressway to major towns on the parallel
Manila north road, which will continue to accommodate local traffic.



- 13 -
Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
4.05      The nine national roads to be reconstructed and improved total
640 km in length. They are existing roads on which the pavement has
deteriorated because of poor design, poor maintenance and heavy traffic
volumes. Detailed engineering was carried out by local/foreign joint
venture consulting firms, comprising EDCOP/Berger for the Malinta-Rosario
road, and Certeza/Sauti for the San Fernando-Gapan and San Fernando-Olongapo
roads, and Cruz/Sauti for the Taytay-Calamba road. The BPH design team
carried out the engineering of the Santo Tomas-Batangas and Tagaytay-
Las Pinas roads. Following the damage caused by the 1972 floods, a further
119 km of national roads out of 137 km studied by DCCD/Norconsult was added
to the project. The same consultants carried out the detailed engineering.
4.06      The new pavements will be constructed in asphalt or portland cement
concrete, and existing pavements where they are in good conditici will be
screugLiAue.u wicn aspnalt overlays. Because of its greater strength,
portland cement concrete pavements are preferred in areas where severe
f1v084nr  "as occurrec" and where raising the embankments above the .kighest
recorded flood levels is not economical. With the exception of a few new
bypasses, the roads will follow existing alignments. On a few sections,
embankments will be raised to reduce damage arising from severe flooding.
Most roads will be upgraded by improvement and widening of shoulders and,
in some sections by widening of pavements in order to cope with estimated
traffic volumes,
Rehabilitation of Minor Roads
4.07      The minor roads included in the project for rehabilitation were
severely damaged by the 1972 floods and are part of a network generally in
poor condition. Improvement will involve about 700 km of roads to be
selected out of 1100 km identified; the roads are summarized in Table 11.
The identification was made by the BPH, assisted by Kampsax/Berger, as
part of a six-month Special Assistance for Highway Rehabilitation, financed
by the UNDP.
Consulting Services
(a) Construction Supervision
4.08      Construction supervision will be undertaken by the same consultants
who prepared the detailed engineering of the project roads. The BPH will
directly supervise the roads engineered by its design staff, with the
assistance of a few specialists to be provided by consultants. To provide
training of local personnel in supervisorY work, all consultants will use
BPH staff to the extent qualified staff can be made available, and will rely
on the local market for other staff. During loan negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the qualifications, terms and conditions of the supervising
consultants and the arrangements for strengthening the BPH supervision staff
will be satisfactory to the Bank.



- 14 -
(b)  Feasibility Studies and Engineering of 137 km of Project Roads
4.09      Retroactive financing of US$0.3 million equivalent is included in
the project for the feasibility studies and detailed engineering of 137 km
of national roads, added later in the preparation of the project as a result
of the 1972 floods (para 4.05), plus some preconstruction engineering services.
The feasibility studies as well as the detailed engineering and documentation
have been completed. During appraisal, sections of the road totaling 18 km
were found adequate and deleted from the project. The construction cost
estimates were based on the preliminary engineering design and reviewed during
negotiations (para 4.18).
(c) Detailed Engineering of Proposed Third and Fourth Highway Projects
4.10      The present project includes preparation of the proposed Third
and Fourth Highway Projects which will involve a reconnaissance study
covering about 1,800 km of roads and subsequent feasibility studies, to be
financed by UNDP, and detailed engineering of roads found feasible to be
financed by the Bank. The proposed roads are listed in Table 11. For
preparation of these two future highway projects, the Government has agreed
to carry out first a reconnaissance study to classify about 1,030 km of
national roads and about 750 km of contiguous minor roads, in the following
two categories of works: (a) new construction and major improvement works,
requiring preparation in two separate phases (feasibility studies and
detailed engineering); and (b) reconditioning of pavements and minor
improvement works which, once identified, require only limited prepara-
tory work.
4.11      When proved feasible, engineering for pavement reconditioning, minor
improvement works of the national roads and for upgrading of the minor roads
will be kept to a minimum and undertaken in one step.  This arrangement will
reduce engineering costs, save time and form the basis of a Third Highway
Project.  The two-step procedure will be followed for the preparation of a
Fourth Hlighway Project, which would include new construction and major
improvement works.  During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the qualifications, terms and conditions of the consultants undertaking
the above work will be satisfactory to the Bank.
(d)  Technical Assistance and Training Program
4.12      Technical assistance by consultants, financed by UNDP, to help
improve the organization and operations of BPHi, commenced in 1971 under
the First Highway Project. Although some improvements are already notice-
able, accomplishments have lagged behind expectations, largely as a result
of delay in decisions on recommencations for reorganization, their imple-
mentation and the scarcity of funds.  Increased funds, needed to make the
new maintenance and construction procedures in the regions operative, were
not available because of an archnaic fund allocation system built into the
Act controlling the HSF. gased on the consultants' recommendations, this
Act was modified in 1972 and adecuate funds for road maintenance became
available from. July 1, 1973. Since September 1972, there has been a notable
increase in the rate of implementation of the consultants' recommendations.



- 15 -
4.13      Much remains to be accomplished, in particular in the implementation
of procedures and operations at the BPH headquarters and also in extending
the newly improved maintenance field organization in two pilot regions to the
rest of the country. The Government agreed that the continuation of the
program was essential; however, the UNDP funds earmarked for technical assistance
are sufficient only to cover technical assistance costs up to the end of
November 1973. The Government, therefore, agreed that the cost of a two-year
program would be financed from the proposed Bank loan.  A review will be held
at the end of 1974 to determine the need and scope of further technical
assistance required. It is intended that the same consultants (Kampsax/Berger)
who are currently providing technical assistance, will be retained for its
continuation on conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Some retroactive
financing is included under the Project to cover the interim period until
the loan is signed. A total of approximately 260 man-months has been allowed
in the project at an average cost of about US$5,400 per man-month, including
equipment and back-up services. This, together with the timing of the review,
was confirmed during loan negotiations.
4.14      During appraisal, the Government agreed to the Bank's sug gestion
that some of the divisions within the BPH needed strengthening and that overall
training needs should be assessed. Nine members of the BPH staff likely to
take on leading functions in the future, are currently being trained in the
United States under fellowships financed by UNDP. For medium and lower level
staff in country training may be required on a larger scale. The project will
include an assessment of the manpower training requirement of the BPH, including
managerial and technical skills and the drawing of appropriate training programs
with an implementation schedule. The Government will engage specialist con-
sultants for this purpose, and agreed during loan negotiations that the qua-
lifications, terms and conditions of their appointment will be subject to the
approval of the Bank. The Government also agreed that the appropriate training
program to be recommended by consultants will be implemented as soon as
practicable. It is estimated that about 18 man-months may be required at a
rate of about US$5,000 per man-month.
Project Preparation and Supervision Office
4.15      The project is large and complex, requiring dealings with a number
of consultants involved in supervision of construction, preparation of
new projects, technical assistance and training. The Government has there-
fore agreed that a special office (the Project Office) will be created within
the BPH to strengthen project administration and preparation of future pro-
jects. For the first two years, the office will be headed by an expatriate
highway expert who will report directly to the Commissioner of the BPH.
The expert has already been selected and recently took up his post. The
expert's counterpart and staff of the office will be selected from regular
BPH staff, to provide the necessary training in the administration of large
projects, including administrative and professional dealings with consultants.
The foreign exchange cost of the expert, whose terms of reference are satis-
factory to the Bank, will be financed from the proposed loan. Retroactive
financing of US$50,000 is required as the expert assumed duties on
September 1, 1973. During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that the Pr'oject Office will be maintained and staffed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.



- 16 -
Weighbridges
4.16      The project includes the purchase and installation of portable and
permanent weighbridges, at the request of the Government, who intends to
ensure that maximum design axle loads are not exceeded on the national roads.
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
it will submit for review and approval by the Bank, detailed proposals which
shall include the following: (i) details of the operating authority; (ii) a
program for the procurement, installation and operation of the weighbridges,
and their proposed location; (iii) the proposed budget, including source of
funds for their operation and maintenance; and (iv) details of any new
legislation required to strengthen the enforcement of axle load control.
Confirmation also was given by the Government that it will enforce regulations
concerning axle loads on the national road system.
B. Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.17      The total cost of the project, including the cost of right-of-way,
is estimated at P 872.6 million, or US$128.2 million equivalent. The total
cost includes 10% for physical contingencies, and 13.0% for cost escalation
during the three-year construction period. The Bank loan will finance
US$65.0 million of foreign exchange and US$3.0 million of local costs for
flood damaged minor roads. Estimated detailed project costs are shown in
Table 12, and are summarized on the next page. The estimated average costs
per km (excluding contingency allowances) are: (i) for construction of
the expressway extension US$625,000; (ii) for reconstruction and improvement
of national roads US$65,000; (iii) for rehabilitation of minor roads
US$10,000; (iv) for supervision by consultants US$5,150; (v) for reconnaissance
and feasibility studies US$1,050; and (vi) for detailed engineering US$4,380.
Average costs for (v) and (vi) apply to 1,050 ka of primary roads. These
costs are reasonable.



- 17 -
% Foreign
P (million)                Ub$ (nillion)            Exchange
&lement                                           Local  Foreign   Total       Local a    Foreign   Total    Component
Part I - Items 'Financed with IBtRD Participation
A. Construction of ixpressamy (51 km)              97.?    119.5  217.2          14.4    17.5      31.9          55
B. Reconstruction and Improvement of
National Roads (640 km)                      139.2    168.8  308.0         20.5    24.8    45.3            55
C. Rehabilitation of Minor Roads (700 kn)           34.0      13.6   47.6         5.0      2.0      7.0          30
Sub-total A, B and C                          02       301.9   572.8                443      84.2          53
D. Consulting Services:
(i)    Supervision of A, B and C               28.6      29.3    57.9         4.2      4.3      8.5          50
(ii)   Feasibility Studies & Detailed
Engineering (137 kmu) and pre-
construction engineering services       2.1       2.0    4.1         0.3      0.3-'V  0.6           50
(iii)  Detailed Sngineering (Proposed
Highways III and IV)                   12.5      18.6   31.3         1.8      2.8      4.6          61
(iv)   Technical Assistande                      1.4      10.2    11.6        0.2      1.5      1.7.?/       88
(v)   Training                                  0.2        0.7    0.9         -01               0.1          95
Sub-total D                                  44.8       61.0  105.8         6.5      9.0     15.5
3. Project Preparation and Supervision
Offfice                                        2.0       0.7     2.7        0.3      0.1      0.43/        25
P. Weighbridges                                      0.7       3.4    4.1         0.1      0.5      0.6          83
G. Contingencies
(i)   Physical (10% on all items)               31.6      38.0    69.&        4.7      5.6     10.3
(ii)  Price escalation (13.0% on A & B)         0 8       37.5   683          4.5      5.5    10.0
Sub-total G                                   62.6      75.5  135.1         9.2    11.1      20.3
Totel Part I                                       3g81.0   L442.5  623.5        56.0    65.0   121.0            54
Part II - Items Financed with UND Participation
R. Reccnnaissance & Feasibility Studies
(1,500 km)                                     1.1,      6.1     7.5        0.2      0.9      1.1          82
Fart III - Item Financed Exclusively by Govermuent
I.  Right-of-ray Cost (Items ^ & B)                 41.6       _      41.6        6.1      _ _      6.1
Total Project Cost                                 424       )48.6  872.6        62.         9    128.2          51
1/ 'Retrc acti re ' irancirg (para. 4.09)
2/ Inc'udes retroactive financing f'or U>S 160,OOC
3'  Ircludes retroactive financing for US3$ 50,000 for th.? epert to head the office;
he assumed duTies on September 1, 1973 (para. 4.15)



- 18 -
4.18      Cost estimates were prepared independently by each engineering
consulting firm for its own project roads and by the BPH for the roads
engineered by its staff. The estimates were then checked and assembled
by the coordinating consultants, taking into account different road locations,
sources of materials, etc. Quantities have been derived from detailed
engineering, except for the 119 km of roads added later to the projects
because of the floods. Unit prices are based on the cost of labor, materials,
depreciation and running costs of equipment, overhead and profit. Recent
bids for similar works were also taken into account. Cost estimates for
supervision, feasibility and detailed engineering studies are based on
detailed staffing and time schedules for supervision, and similar studies
carried out in the Philippines and other countries. A 10% contingency
allowance for quantity and time overruns is considered adequate for construc-
tion and consulting services. The escalation allowance amounting to 13% of
the total construction cost is based on an annual rate of 12% applied to
estimated yearly expenditure over the construction period. During loan
negotiations, final cost estimates for the project were agreed with the
Government.
4.19      One of the important considerations in calculating the foreign
exchange components in roadworks is wnether the contracts will be awarded
to foreign, foreign/local or local contractors. Bids for the three contracts
of the Burol-Angeles expressway extension were received and analyzed before
negotiations.  The contracts are likely to be awarded to one local contractor
for two contracts and to one local/foreign joint venture for the other.
The other contracts will, for the greater part, be awarded to foreign/local
joint ventures, and possibly one or two to local contractors. On this
basis, the estimated overall average of the foreign exchange costs for
road construction, improvement and rehabilitation is 53%. For supervision,
feasibility studies and detailed engineering, the foreign exchange component
is based on actual or estimated cost of foreign experts' services and
equipment.
C. Execution
4.20      The BPH, through its Project Office (para 4.15), and assisted by
qualified consultants, will be responsible for the execution of the project.
As previously noted, except as otherwise agreed, consultants acceptable
to the Bank will be employed under the project to supervise all construction
work. The construction and improvement works are expected to be completed
about mid-1977.
4.21      The road construction and improvement works have been divided
into 14 contracts: 3 each for Lhe Expressway and the Malinta-Rosario
road; 2 for the Taytay-Calamba road; and 1 each for the San Fernando-
Gapan, San Fernando-Olongapo, Santo Tomas-Batangas, Tagaytay-Las Pinas,
Tarlac-Lingayen, and a single contract for the Dagupan-Damortis and Santa
Barbara-Calasiao roads. The sizes of the contracts were determined by
technical factors, such as the need to obtain economies of scale on the
larger works, as well as provide a number of smaller contracts to encourage



- 19 -
local contractors. Estimates for individual contracts based on detailed
engineering, range from US$1.6-17.5 million equivalent. Eleven contracts
are sufficiently small to enable suitably prequalified local contractors
to bid on them. Contractors will be permitted to bid on a combination of
adjacent works to take advantage of possible cost reductions.
4.22      Some 9 local contractors, 5 local/foreign joint ventures and
15 foreign contractors have already been prequalified. Only three of
the local contractors have executed single contracts worth over US$2 million
equivalent within the last five years, but all have an annual work capacity
exceeding US$3 million. A local contractor is currently engaged on the
construction of the Cotabato-Digos road (160 km for US$5.7 million)
included in the First Highway Project. The contracts will be awarded to
prequalified contractors after international competitive bidding, in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement." The 14 contracts
have been divided into 6 groups of adjacent works; bids for each road are
to be opened at one month intervals from October 15, 1973 for the Expressway
to February 1, 1974 for the Tarlac-Lingayen and Dagupan-Damortis/Sarta
Barbara-Calasiao roads. The bidding schedule has been arranged in such a
way that unsuccessful bidders will be able to bid on subsequent contracts.
The first contracts will be awarded soon after the signing of the Loan
Agreement. During loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on a schedule for the execution of the project and progress reporting
requirements.
4.23      The minor roads to be rehabilitated do not lend themselves to
international competitive bidding because the works are small (about
US$10,000/km) and scattered, and will not be based on full detailed
engineering, the cost of which would be out of proportion to the cost of
of the rehabilitation work involved. Contracts will be negotiated with
contractors carrying out major project roadworks nearby with a view to
obtaining the lowest possible prices. These contracts will be based on
simple specifications and prepared by the supervising consultants for the
major roadworks. Consideration was given to putting some contracts to local
competitive bidding; however, since such a procedure will result in additional
documentation and costs, it will only be resorted to if contracts cannot be
negotiated at reasonable rates with existing contractors, as determined by
the BPH.
4.24      The potential of the project for relieving unemployment in the
country has been considered (para 2.02). Although the contractors are
left to choose their own construction method in complying with work
specifications, they are urged to consider the maximum use of labor
consistent witn the specifiad quality and construction time.  It is expected
that skilled labor will be recrLited ia Manila while unskilled labor will
probably be drawn from rural areas.  Employment also is expected to be
generated by the use of local subcontractors, using more labor-intensive
methods; this use is frequently resorted to by foreign contractors for the
supply of materials and small works.



- 20 -
4.25      No significant ecological problems are expected.  The Expressway,
by diverting part: of the traffic away from the Tabang-Angeles section of
the Manila north road is bound to improve its environmental conditions.,
To gain other benefits to the environment, the Bank has suggested to the
Government that it enact and enforce building line regulations along all
national roads to avoid ribbon development problems and consequent high
right-of-way costs. Access to the expressway will be controlled. A
masterplan for land use and development will eventually be needed if
environmental benefits are to be further improved. Acquisition of the
right-of-way will cause minimal disturbance; the new expressway construction
passes mainly through thinly populated swampy terrain, and its alignment
has been chosen to avoid buildings, as far as practicable, but does, for
part of its length, go through rice paddies and other cultivated land.
4.26      The alignment of the highways to be reconstructed and improved
largely follows the existing road, thus minimizing the additional right-of-way
required. The Government has adequate power, through legislation, to acquire
the right-of-way needed for the new construction. Assurances were obtained
during loan negotiations that the Government will take promptly all steps to
acquire the right-of-way on each highway section as may be necessary for the
carrying out of the civil works included in the Project.,
D. Financing
4.27      The proposed loan will finance the foreign exchange component
of construction, consulting services (except where financed by UNDP),
training and weighbridges and some local costs for minor roAds. An analysis
of the Government Highway Development Program on the availability of funds
for financing the local currency component of the project shows that no
u*ndue difficulties are expected. For the FY 1974/77 period, only about
14% of the funds allocated for highway expenditures will be needed to match
the foreign component of the proposed Bank project (Table 2), and 38% for
the Bank project, the committed and presently envisaged ADB projects and
the Japanese-financed project for the Pan Philippine highway together.
E. Disbursements
4.28      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be on the basis of:
(a) 55% of the total cost of road construction, and improvement of the
national roads; (b) 70% of the estimated cost of rehabilitation of minor
roads, regardless of the actual cost up to a total amount of US$5.0
million including contingencies; (c) 100% of the foreign exchange costs of
the consulting services; and (d) 100% of the cif cost of imported weigh-
bridges. Retroactive financing of about US$650,000 equivalent is required
for feasibility studies and detailed engineering carried out in 1973 on
the 137 km of roads added to the project. for preconstruction enginper4-o
services (para 4.09)  for continuing technical assistance u-t    h-
r^~nspd loan is signed (para 4.13' and for the Project Office in the BPH,
which started operating in September 1973 (para 4.15). The schedule of



- 21 -
estimated disbursements is given in Table 13. During loan negotiations,
the Government and the Bank ngreed ^n *>4- schedule.  Surplus funds
remaining in the Loan Account after completion of the project should be
cancelled.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The Second Highway Project will continue the Bank's assistance
to the Phili?pines in its efforts to improve and modernize the road transport
system. The benefits accruing from the construction and improvement of the
project roads, all located in the Luzon Island, will essentially reduce
present hiigh road transport costs by lowering vehicle operating costs and
by saving Passengers' travelling time.  An easier access, free from
floods, to several areas with agricultural development potential will also
be provided, together with a relief to traffic congested roads converging on
the industrial Greater Manila area. In addition, the project will help to
cope with the present and planned growth of the transport demand in the
Philippines major island, and particularly with the demand for road trans-
port which is the predominant mode for the movement of passengers and
freight (para 2.03). The construction of the proposed expressway extension,
the reconstruction and improvement of national roads and the rehabilitation
of minor roads, will amount to about 22% of total planned expenditures on
highways in the Transport Investment Program (FY 1974/77). The size of
the project is, however, considerable. It is equivalent to more than half
of the total actual expenditures on highways of the FY 1968/72 Program,
or to about one-third of all public capital expenditures during that period
(paras 2.11 and 3.13).
5.02      Other parts of the project, include the continuation of the
ongoing technical assistance to BPH, provision for technical and managerial
training to its staff and for further detailed engineering studies of
roads found feasible in preliminary studies financed by UNDP, to prepare
future Bank projects. These elements will contribute to strengthening
further the BPH organization, improve the quality of its staff to carry
out the preparation, execution and supervision of highway works and to
develop an efficient highway maintenance organization. The setting up of
a special preparation and supervision office to be headed by an expatriate
to administer Bank-financed highway projects will, on a temporary basis,
enable a closer monitoring of a large part of the activities of BPH which
has recently shown difficulties in handling efficiently the additional
burden brought by an increasing number of new projects. The weighbridge
element of the project will have an important impact in helping to avoid
a rapid deterioration of the highway network by overloaded vehicles such
as mineral ores and log trucks, thereby preserving past and proposed
highways investments.



22 -
5.03      With the exception of the proposed expressway extension which
will avoid expected traffic congestion on the Manila north corridor, all
the national roads in the project are mainly needed because of insufficient
highway maintenance in the past. The need to catch up with the backlog of
deferred maintenance expenditures, which applies to the entire road network
of the Philippines, is more acute in Luzon due to a generally higher traffic
growth and to additional damage caused by the exceptional 1972 floods. The
past lack of fur.ds for highway maintenance has been eased by a recent
Presiden-ial Decree which increased the appropriations for the HSFs to
an accepzablZ level for the next three years, and restricted its use to
higliway maintenance as a first priority . The very recent Presidential
Decree raising the gasoline and fuel taxes will also provide additional
income for highway maintenance and construction (paras 3.14-3.15).
B. Construction of Expressway
5.04      The proposed construction of the Burol-Angeles two-lane
expressway extension (51 km) to the existing four-lane Manila North
Expressway (29 km), will greatly reduce future traffic congestion on
the Tabang-Angeles section of the two-lane Manila north road, which now
carries all the corridor traffic north of Tabang. The new expressway is
expected to stimulate a less concentrated location for new or expanding
industries away from the Greater Manila area with a population of almost 5
million. Agricultural products of the rich Luzon central plain will also
benefit from fast and reliable access to the largest urban market in the
Philippines, and part of the transport cost savings will probably be
passed on to both urban consumers and farmers in the areas served.
5.05      The economic analysis of the proposed expressway was carried out
by Norconsult (Norway), in a feasibility study financed by UNDP and
completed in 1972. It was updated in their detailed engineering study in
1973. Present traffic volumes on the Tabang-Angeles section of the Manila
north road described in Annex A are high, averaging over 9,000 vpd, and
congestion will develop rapidly ln this corridor in the near future
(15,000 vpd in 1976 and 35,000 in 1985). The estimated traffic assignments,
growths and forecast volumes (Tables 14 and 15) are based on a detailed
traffic origin and destination survey conducted in 1971. These estimates
were revised in May 1973 on traffic counts carried out by BPH. The
assignments take into account the traffic expected to divert to the expressway
extension from the existing road. Diversion mainly of passenger traffic
from the parallel railway line is expected to occur but will represent an
insignificant part of the total traffic assigned to the proposed expressway
extension. The traffic forecasts include estimated normal and generated
growths.
5.06      A major assumption of the economic justification of the proposed
expressway extension contained in Norconsult's feasibility report (1972),
was that it would be a toll-free facility. Traffic diversion rates from
existing roads, traffic growth estimates and vehicle operating costs were
calculated based on such a hypothesis, under which this part of the project



- 23 -
was found justified and led to the detailed engineering of the expressway.
Early in 1973, however, the Government decided to levy tolls on the
proposed expressway extension to recoup the local part of the capital
expenditures from the expressway users, similar to the practice on the
two existing four-lane expressways north (29 km) and south (10 kmn) of
Manila. The Bank was concerned that the economic feasibility of the
investment would be reduced by a loss of traffic which, to avoid paying
tolls, might remain on the existing Tabang-Angeles road being improved
under the project. Following discussions with the Governnent, it was
agreed that tolls would be levied on an experimental basis to check their
effects on the intensity of resulting traffic diversion (para 5.11). The
tolls would be reduced or removed if the expressway's share of future
traffic in th '-nrridor proves to be substantially less than that esA -ated
for a toll-free facility.
5.07      It is estimnttd that the Burol-Angeles exprp -eev exteraln.
* 'thout tolls, would carry about 60% of the corriAnr ? raffic after its
opening in 1976.  The Tabar-An-ples section of the Manila north rnad
r.ould continue to carry the remaining 40% of the traff4-.  This traffic
OPlit was estimated on the basis of an origin and i-q*ination survey using
the time minimizing criterion and taking into account the traffic composition,
which includes 65% cars and jeepneys, 15% buses 'ini 2n0  trucks, and the
proportion of local and long distance traffic.  The travell4ng distance
is only 2 km shorter on thn *xDressway than on the old road.
5.08      For the toll alternative, the Government proposed that the tariff
per category of vehicles would be set initially at a level to recoup the
local expenditures for construction, and full costs of maintenance and toll
collection over a 20-year period. On this basis, it is estimated that about
40% of the traffic would divert from the existing Tabang-Angeles rnad
to the expressway extension at its opening, compared to 60% asnumed without
toll (para 5.07). The traffic assignment with toll is based on relative
transport costs for alternative roads. The traffic growth, including
normal and generated traffic, is also expected to be lower during the
earlier years. The losc of generated traffic would be important since
savings in vehicle operating costs with the new facility will be reduced
by the amount of the tolls users pay and, therefore, induced traffic from
reduced transportation costs will also be lower.
5.09           The average vehicle operating costs with and without tolls
are given in Table 16 and were assessed for typical vehicles, taking into
account road standards and traffic density. The savings in passenger
time were quantified separately with hourly time values of six Pesos per km
for private car passengers and one Peso per km for bus passengers. Benefits
of the proposed construction of the Burol-Angeles expressway were determined
as the difference in road user and maintenance costs with and without
the project, and are shown in detail in Table 17. Benefits also include
vehicle operating cost savings to the Tabang-Angeles traffic from reduced
congestion.



- 24 -
5.10      The economic return (ER' for the proposed Burol-Angeles
expressway extension, over an assumed 20-year service life, is estimated
at 21% without tolls. The sensitivity of the ER was tested by varying
construction cost by + 15% and benefits by + 25%. Under a pessimistic
assumption of an increase in the construction cost concurrent with a decrease
in benefits, the ER would be 13% (Table 19). Exclusion of passenger.time
savings, a major component of the benefits accruing to passenger vehicles,
buses and jeepneys which comprise 80% of the total traffic, would reduce the
above return to 14%.
5.11      Although ERs of the expressway extension with tolls are estimated
to be significantly lower than without tolls, acceptance by the Government
of a toll experiment is a satisfactory solution (para 5.06). This arrange-
ment provides for the reduction or abandonment of tolls, should the effects
of toll collection result in substantial diversion of traffic from the express-
way back to the alternative road. A substantial diversion of traffic caused
by tolls on the expressway extension would be deemed to occur when its tiaffic,
expressed as a weighted percentage of total traffic traversing the Tabang/Burel
to Angeles corridor, is less than 50%.  Such a 50/50 weighted traffic split
is estimated to correspond to an 18% rate of return for the expressway
extension, which will thus be the minimum rate of return expected to be
achieved. The average daily traffic (ADT) observed on both highways of the
corridor is to be adjusted for each category of vehicles by
(a)  the length in km of the section of road over which the
ADT applies; and
(b) the following weighting factors which represent the relative
values of savings in vehicle operating costs:
Private cars                   13
Jeepneys, taxis and vans       15
Buses                          43
Trucks                         29
100
%.12      During loan negotiations, the organization of this experiment
was agreed with the Government and assurances were obtained that the system
of toll collection shall, unless the Bank agrees otherwise, include the
following features:
(a) the collection of tolls shall initially be on an experimental
basis;
(b) the system of collection shall be directly operated by BPH;
(c) tolls shall be set initially at a level not higher than
that required to produce revenues sufficient to cover all
expenditures related to the collection of such tolls,
maintenance costs and, over 20 years, the local currency
component of the capital costs of the expressway; and



- 25 -
(d) the traffic shall be monitored, during five years after
the expressway is opened to public use, to determine
semi-annually whether such tolls are causing diversion
of a substantial part of the traffic to the alternative
road.
The Government also agreed (a) not to make any substantial increase in
the levels of such tolls during the said five years without consulting
previously with the Bank; and (b) if the monitoring under paragraph (d)
above demonstrates that substantial diversion is taking place, to take
all steps required to stop such substantial diversion, including the
reduction or removal of such tolls so that the minimum weighted traffic
split of 50% is obtained on the Burol-Angeles expressway.
C. Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads
' 13      The nine roads to be reconstructed and/or improved under the
project are located in different provinces and are generally oriented
north-south, convergent on the Greater Manila area, with the exception
of the San Fernando-Gapan and the San Fernando-Olongapo roads which run
east-west and serve central Luzon. All nine roads are national highways and
constitute the most important part of the road network, with the highest
traffic volumes of the island. Their improvement will benefit long
distance as well as local traffic. The areas served are densely populated
and depend essentially on agriculture, particularly rice, sugar cane,
coconuts, pineapple, vegetables and logs in forest zones. Some food
processing industries, including sugar refineries and other wood industries,
are located in these agricultural areas. Some cement plants and other
light industries are located near the Laguna de Bay area, which has an
important industrial development potential, and along the Malinta-Tabang
road section where ribbon development is extremely dense.
5.14      The economic evaluation of this element of the project was carried
out by Norconsult, except for the Tarlac-Damortis and Urdaneta-Dagupan
roads, which were studied by a local/foreign joint venture, DCCD/Norconsult.
Existing traffic volumes, forecasts and estimated growth rates are shown
in Tables 14 and 15, and details of traffic characteristics for each road
are given in Annex A. Traffic forecasts are based on past and expected
growth of the GNP, on forecasts of population increase and on past traffic
growth for each studied road. No diverted traffic is assumed except for the
Tarlac-Lingayen road, which is expected to capture some traffic from
Malinta-Rosario road. In addition to normal traffic growth rates, generated
traffic has been assumed, induced by reduction of vehicle operating costs.
Only the Malinta-Rosario and the Santo Tomas-Batangas roads offer competition
with the railroad, but possible diversion of rail traffic to the roads will
be insignificant in the total expected road traffic.



- 26 -
5.15      The assessed benefits result from savings in vehicle operating
costs due to the improved conditions on the newly paved highways compared
with the existing rough cracked concrete, or poor asphalt roads, and also
from reduction in road maintenance costs. The average vehicle operating
costs, with and without passenger time savings, are shown in Table 16
and take into account highway standards, terrain condition and vehicle
speed. The transport cost reductions per km vary from 5% to 30% for private
ca-S and Jeepreys, and from 8 to 32% for buses and trucks.  As the roads are
fol1owin- closely the existing alignment, negligible benefit is obtained
from distance reduction, but savings occur from reduced travel time due
to increased speed of vehicles. Hourly time values of passengers are
i6entical with those used in analysis of the expressway construction
(para 5.09). In addition to reduced travel costs benefiting road users,
part of which may be passed on to urban consumers and to farmers in the
areas served, the new paved roads would bring other non-quantified benefits,
such as quicker and improved services, flood-free access to markets,
reduction of the nuisance and accidents caused by pot holes and dust
resulting from increasing traffic on the present roads.
5.16      The estimated streams of costs and benefits over the assumed 20
years service-life of the investments and ERs for each road are shown in
detail in Table 18. ERs range between 19% and 29% with passenger time savings
included and between 12% and 18% without. The sensitivity of the ERs was
tested under the same assumption as with the expressway construction (para
5.10) and the pessimistic assumption gives ERs ranging between 13% and 21%
(Table 19). These returns are, therefore, satisfactory to justify the road
reconstruction and improvement element of the project.
D. Rehabilitation of Minor Roads
5.17      The roads proposed for rehabilitation have been identified by
BPH with the assistance of the consultants, Kampsax/Berger, as part of
a six month Special Assistance for Highway Rehabilitation, financed by
UNDP after the 1972 disaster floods. About 1,100 km of roads have been
identified in 9 provinces with an ad hoc priority ranking system developed
by the consultants. Basic criteria used for the selection of the roads
are: (a) to be within the area affected by the floods; (b) to be
contiguous to the main roads for reconstruction and improvement under the
project; and (c) to be rehabilitable at relatively low cost. In addition,
other factors were considered with a point system to combine traffic levels,
road conditions, and population density. Roads with traffic exceeding
500 vpd were excluded from the program as they would require engineering
studies to relate road standards to traffic volumes.
5.18      No economic evaluation was carried out for these roads as
neither rehabilitation c3s_S no-r potential benefits could be assessed with
sufficient accuracy. ?or most of the roads, no traffic counts have been
carried out in the pas. and the absence of traffic results often from
impassable conditions of the roads.  The ranking system appears to be an



- 27 -
acceptable substitute under present circumstances. About only 700 km of
roads will be finally selected for rehabilitation among the proposed list,
with a Bank contribution of about US$5 million.
5.19      The benefits expected to accrue from this part of the project
will be savings in vehicle operating costs, passengers' travel time, easier
access to markets and reduction of dust when roads are to be paved. The
rural population which suffered most from the flood will benefit directly
from the road rehabilitation. In addition, traffic generation is expected
to increase to some extent forecast traffic on the contiguous xmajor roads
financed under the project. Although not quantified, these benefits will
be substantial and favorably support this small element of project, which
represents less than 10% of the total capital costs for road construction
or improvement.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, the Government gave assurances on
a number of points. The most important of these are that the Government
will: (a) propose, with an implementation schedule, a system to collect and
process data on all transport modes before December 31, 1974 (para 3.07);
(b) continue until end 1974 the technical assistance program which will
include the preparation of a countrywide highway maintenance program (para
4.13); (c) submit, for the approval by the Bank, detailed proposals for
the purchase, installation and operation of weighbridges to be procured
under the project; and (d) raise tolls on the Burol-Angeles expressway
extension of an experimental basis for the first five years, and if the
monitoring of the effects of tolls demonstrates that substantial diversion
of traffic occurs, the tolls will be reduced or removed until a minimum
share of 50% of the corridor traffic is obtained on the expressway (para 5.12).
6.02      The project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$66.0 million equivalent with a term of 24 years, includirng a four-year
grace period.






ANNEX A
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Description of Project Roads
A. Construction of Expressway (51 km)
Burol - Angeles
1.        This is a two-lane extension from Burol to Angeles to the exist-
ing four-lane Manila north expressway (27 km) which links metropolitan
Manila (4,700,000 inhabitants) to Tabang in Bulacan province (840,000).
The proposed expressway extension of 51 km located in central Luzon,
will parallel existing Manila north road and prevent heavier traffic
congestion in the near future. It will serve mainly north-south long
distance traffic between Greater Manila and a few important cities, such
as San Fernando (85,000) and Angeles (135,000), plus all points north of
Angeles including Tarlac and Baguio.
2.        The expressway goes through mostly flat land with a high embank-
ment varying from 3 to 8 m. It includes a 5 km viaduct crossing the Candaba
swamp with high flood level and poor subsoil conditions, 6 km of access
roads and 6 interchanges, including the Plaridel interchange connecting the
Pan Philippine highway. Although the road has been designed and engineered
as a four-lane facility, its contruction is to be carried out in two stages.
The first stage to be financed under this loan is as follows:
(a)  A 5 km long four-lane facility between Burol and Plaridel,
to link the existing expressway to the Pan Philippine
interchange, and consisting of 2 carriageways each 7.3 m
wide, separated by a 12 m wide median and two outer
shoulders each 3.0 m wide, with adjoining 0.75 m shoulder
margins.
(b)  A two-lane facility for the remaining 46 km of the extension
consisting of a single carriageway 7.3 m wide with 3.0 m
shoulders.
The interchanges and overpasses will be constructed for a final four-lane
facility, except for bridges on the expressway itself including the viaduct,
which will initially be for a single carriageway only. The second stage
for converting the extension into a full four-lane facility is expected to
be part of the improvement program for 1977-1981.
3.        The present traffic on Tabang-Angeles section of the Manila north
road varies between 7,000 and 15,000 vpd, with a weighted average of 9 P00 vpd.



ANNEX A
Page 2
The traffic forecasts for the corridor between Manila and Angeles are based
on average growth rates of about 14% between 1972 and 1976 and 8.6% there-
after. Traffic volumes would reach 15,000 vpd in 1976 and 70,000 vpd in
1995. The normal traffic growth rates in the corridor between Tabang and
Angeles were estimated on projections of the population, vehicle fleet and
per capita income. The expected rates of generated traffic induced by the
opening of the new facility were estImated at 15% p.a. during the two first
years of operation and are related to an average vehicle ope.rating costs
reduction of over 30%. However, the combined average normal and generated
traffic growth rates assumed, about 14% until 1976, and over 8% afterwards,
are considered on the high side in comparison with recent drops in the
growth rates of the vehicle fleet (4% from 1970 to 1972) and gasoline con-
sumption (less than 4% in 1970-71) (Tables 4 and 5). Although at present
congestion on the existing Tabang-Angeles section is still moderate, its
capacity will be exceeded by 1980. The traffic composition is 50% cars,
15% jeepneys, 15% buses and 20% trucks. The proportion of local traffic is
estimated at 40%, the remainder being long distance traffic. The expressway
extension is expected to accommodate the larger part of through traffic if
no tolls were levied.  With tolls, it is expected that part of the commercial
long distance traffic, trucks particularly, would remain on the old road in a
direct proportion to toll levels.
B. Reconstruction and Improvement of National Roads (642 km)
Malinta-Rosario (200 km)
4.        This section is part of the Manila north road which is the main
highway in Luzou running from Manila northward to the Lingayen gulf and
along the north-west coast of Luzon. The project road of 200 km serves
several cities, including San Fernando (85,000), Angeles (135,000), Tarlac
(135,000), Urdaneta (59,000) and Rosario (22,000) in La Union province.
5.        The existing road has fairly good gradients and horizontal
alignment, but its level has to be raised in some areas where the road is
frequently flooded during rainy seasons. The section of the road in the
Pampanga province was one of the worst affected by the 1972 floods. The
road pavement originally consisted almost entirely of portland cement
concrete construction, but has in many areas thin asphalt overlays to seal
badly cracked surfaces. The pavement width is between 6.1 m (Class 2)
and 7.0 m (Class 4). Some widening to Class 4 standards has been done with
asphalt concrete overlays but failure has occurred through not providing
a proper foundation. The shoulders are generally narrow and not properly
graded with the result the poor surface drainge has caused serious
deterioration of the road surface and side slopes. The side drains are
inadequate and drainage in the urban areas was poorly designed.
6.        To cope with the estimated Lraffic growth, the road needs
improvement in standard and strength. The proposed improvements are
pavement widening to 7.0 m throughout and pavement strengthening, shoulder



ANNEX A
Page 3
widening and reshaping and improvement of drainage to raise the entire
length of the road to Class 4 standards. Two major realignments are
planned with bypasses of Gerona (42,000) and of the business section of
Paniqui (48,000). The floods that ravaged central Luzon in 1972 damaged
several structures along the road which have to be repaired. In addition,
sidewalks are to be provided for two bridges. Two new bridges and 14 box
culverts are to be constructed. The old waterways are inadequate and an
island dividing the river flow has to be removed in order to cope with the
flood waters.
7.        The present traffic volumes range between 11,400 and 1,500 vpd,
gradually decreasing from south to north. Traffic growths on the Malinta-
Rosario road, provided the expressway is built, are estimated at 11% p.a.
until 1976, and 9% thereafter; traffic volumes should reach 20,000 vpd in
1990 on the Tabang-San Fernando section, and about 8,000 vpd between Tarlac
and Part-ui.  The capacity of the road section between Malinta and Tabang,
which carriej heaviest traffic, will be reached in 1980 and additional
lanes will be needed. The road passes through thickly populated flat
urban areas which gradually change to farmland approaching Tabang, about
22 km from Malinta. From Tabang, the road traverses predominantly agri-
cultural land with heavy roadside development in the towns. Rice is the
main agricultural crop, with scope for further expansion, though increase
in rice production in the past has been spectacular. The present yield
of root crops and vegetables is loy .but the potential for improvement is
considerable. Fish is also spawned in fish ponds. Produce for the local
markets is being carried on this road and surpluses from the provinces move
along this road south to the Greater Manila area.
San Fernando-Gapan (49 km)
8.        This road between San Fernando (85,000) and Gapan (46,000) links
the Manila north road to the Pan Philippine highway. It runs from the
bypass east of San Fernando through mostly flat agricultural land, and
crosses the Pampanga river, to reach the Candab rfloodway. The road
continues north-east through a number of villages, to Gapan. The road
is located entirely in the low central Luzon plains.
9.        The horizontal alignment is on the average good, except for a
few sharp curves in the towns. The grade, however, needs to be raised
as most of the road is subject to periodic flooding. During the past
12 years, three severe inundations have been recorded, in j960, 1966 and
1972. The Pampanga river and its tributaries in the normal cycle of flow
conditions, flood adjacent lands each year. Only about 5 km of the road
has a portland cement concrete pavement which is in fair to good condition.
The remainder of the road has a low-grade bituminous macadam surface, which
has deteriorated to such an extent that it now appears to be a gravel road.
The pavement width is generally 6.1 m (Class 2) with shoulders varying
from 0.5 m to 2.0 m in width. Culverts are inadequate and side drains are
almost non-existent.
10.       The improvements to be made on the road consist of 1.5 km of new
construction for a bypass and reconstruction of the remainder on the existing



ANNEX A
Page 4
alignment. To resist floods, a concrete pavement is proposed for the whole
road, with a higher embankment. In addition to the construction of the
Candaba spillway, nine bridges will be repaired and one extended. The road
will be improved throughout to Class 2 standards. The existing traffic
volume ranges between 800 and 1,700 vpd and is expected to grow at the rate
of 8% until 1976 and 6% thereafter. The road serves a predominantly rice-
producing area with development potential, and links a moderately dense
population to the Manila north road and the Pan Philippine highway.
San Fernando-Olongapo (57 km)
1 '.      The road starts at San Fernando and heads south-west over flat
land through several towns totalling over 170,000 inhabitants. The road
crosses flat land to Dinalupihan (31,000) and climbs through rolling and
mountainous terrain for 12 km before descending towards Olongapo (108,000).
12.       Like the other roads of the central Luzon plain, the larger part
of the road is on low ground and subject to flooding. Flood control measures
have been taken to overcome this problem, but there is uncertainty about
their effectiveness because of the rapid deterioration of the road pavement
and embankment slopes. Drainage is a very serious problem and the present
facilities are grossly inadequate. In general, the existing portland cement
concrete pavement sections resisted better than asphalt pavement sections,
but some sections are badly cracked and show signs of base failure. The
bituminous sections are in poor condition and many sections have to be
strengthened with overlays.
13.       Improvements proposed include the widening of the road to Class 4
standards (7.0 m pavement) to Dinalupihan and to Class 2 standards (6.1 m
pavement) in the mountainous area to Olongapo. The major works proposed
include a new diversion road of 18 km north-west of San Fernando to attract
through traffic, and a new alignment of 0.6 km in the mountainous area before
the descent to Olongapo, to improve road geometrics to a safe standard.
Climbing lanes are envisaged for a few short stretches in the mountainous
area where the road gradients are steep. In the areas not subject to
flooding, the reconstruction re-uses, when possible, the existing road
pavement structure. All new construction and a major part of the road will
have a portland cement concrete pavement. Where the road is not likely to
be flooded in the area towards Olongapo, asphalt concrete overlays will be
employed to strengthen the existing pavement. There are 23 bridges on this
road and four of these need to be widened to Class 4 standards. Minor
repairs will be necessary on the other bridges and one bridge that has
failed will be replaced by box culverts.
14.       Traffic volumes are fairly heavy on the existing road, ranging
from about 4,700 vpd on the first section near San Fernando to 3,000 vpd
on the following section to Dinalupihan. Traffic volumes drop to
1,500 - 1,800 vpd in the last section towards Olongapo.  Traffic growth
is estimated at 9% until 1976 and 7% thereafter. Agriculture is based
mainly on vegetables, corn, fruits and sugarcane. Sugarcane production



ANNEX A
Page 5
is developing with the installation of additional processing capacity
in the region. Production of logs from nearby forests in the mountains
is also an important industry.
Taytay-Calamba (136 km)
15.       The road starts near Taytay (47,000), at the outskirts of Manila,
and encircles the lake on the eastern side to Calamba. The road passes
through urban and rural areas and serves as the main thoroughfare for both
local and long distance traffic. From Pililla (16,000) to Famy, the road
goes through a mountainous area, which is its most difficult portion.
Horizontal and vertical alignments have sharp curves and steep grades,
particularly as one approaches the eastern end where the road is winding
and narrow for the last 2 or 3 km before descending into the plains. From
Famy to Pagsanjan (15,000) and Calamba, the road is located in low-lying
rice growing areas bordering the Laguna de Bay. Parts of the rcad are
flooded during heavy rains and serious deterioration of the existing
bituminous macadam surface and erosion of the embankments have already
taken place.
17.       The proposed standards vary from rehabilitation works to
improvement to Class 2, 3 and 4 standards, and to new construction to
Class 2, 3 and 4 standards. The first section of the road for 14 km
near Taytay, including its bypass, will be constructed to Class 4
standards (7.0 m pavement). The road pavement will consist mostly of
portland cement concrete on a cement stabilized base, except for a
mountainous section of about 20 km between Pililla and Famy and parts
of the road near Calamba. On the north part of the road, in addition
to three bypasses, a major realignment of 11 km is included to bypass
a densely populated urban area totalling about 250,000 inhabitants.
Major realignments are also proposed near Famy and Santa Cruz. About
4 km of the exirting road, which was flooded in 1972, is to be raised
above maximum flood level and the remaining is to be reconstructed with
a portland cement concrete pavement with side slope protection. About
3 km of new alignment will also be-raised above maximum flood level.
Bridges are generally of reasonable standards but need repairs. Five
bridges will be widened and 12 new short-span bridges are proposed.
18.       The present traffic volumes vary from 8,200 to 1,100 vpd, with
the highest traffic near Taytay, declining to Famy and rising again near
Calamba. In the first section near Taytay, the proposed road traffic
capacity of 20,000 vpd is expected to be reached in 1982. The traffic
is estimated to grow at a rate of 11% until 1976 and 8% thereafter. The
area served is about 45% cultivated land and 17% urban or semi-urban. The
rest, mostly uplands, is covered with bamboo, bushes or grass and is
suitable for reforestation. Agricultural production includes sugarcane,
rice, coconut and pineapple. Research carried out by the Laguna Lake
Development Authority, particu'larly on seed selection, has indicated
possibilities for increasing yields. Studies are also presently being
carried out for the hydraulic control of the w Eer resources of the lake,
to include a water supply plant for metropolitan Manila, fish ponds and



ANNEX A
Page 6
land reclamation mainly for commercial and industrial use. Iron ore
deposits near Santa Ines, if exploited, may result in the establishing
of an integrated steel industry ia the north lake area. Limestone deposits
are also located in this area and three cement plants are in operation.
Pagsanjan with its falls is a tourist and recreational area with potential
development.  The number of visitors, about 100,000 per year, mostly from
Manila, is expected to increase at 15% p.a. with overseas tourism, mainly
from Japan.
Santo Tomas-Batangas (43 km)
19.       The road starts at the junction with the south-east Pan Philippine
highway near Santo Tomas (32,000) and runs south for about 20 km in flat
terrain to Lipa (94,000). It then continues southwards through a slightly
rolling country and descends to the seaport city of Batangas (109,000). The
horizontal alignment of the existing road is generally good and requires
only minor corrections. No raising of the road levels is necessary except
in a short section due to poor maintenance of side drains, as no serious
flooding has been experienced. Most of the existing pavement is of asphalt,
except for an 8 km section in portland cement concrete, which is new and
in very good condition.  The existing asphalt pavement is 6.1 m wide, in
poor condition, and previous attempts to improve the pavement have met with
little success due to substandard materials being used.
20.       The improvements proposed are the widening of the road to Class 4
standards (7.0 m pavement), except for a stretch with new portland cement
concrete pavement which will remain at 6.7 m width but its shoulders will
be widened with concrete sidewalks, as this section is located in a school
area. The major works will consist of a new asphalt concrete pavement for
about 33 km and the remainder in portland cement concrete for two bypasses
at Santo Tomas and Lipa. A new bridge will be constructed on the Lipa by-
pass and some new culverts will be installed, and others repaired.
21.       The existing traffic ranges between 5,400 and 1,800 vpd and de-
creases gradually from Lipa to Batangas. The growth rate is estimated at
10% p.a. until 1976 and 8.5% thereafter. Traffic volumes should reach
27,000 vpd by 1995 and the proposed capacity exceeded by 1992. Traffic
congestion at Lipa justifies the construction of the proposed bypass which
should accommodate about 45% of the existing traffic. The area's population
is moderately dense; the inhabitants live on farms producing fruits, vege-
tables and coconuts. Two oil refineries are located in Batangas and a
cement plant is to be built nearby. Batangas is a seaside resort which
will benefit from the road improvements.
Tagaytay-Las Pinas (38 km)
22.       The road starts at Tagaytay (11,000), descends through rolling
country to Silang (39 p0O) and continues over flat farmland to Las Pinas.
The improvements to the road will consist of an asphalt concrete overlay
on the existing 6.1 m portland cement concrete pavement, which is severely
cracked and deteriorated. Some thin overlay work has been attempted but



ANNEX A
Page 7
the cracks have spread to the overlay and rapid deterioration has taken
place. Before the new overlay is applied, a 15 cm crushed aggregate base
will be first constructed. The alignments and grade are good. New construc-
tion consists of a bypass to divert through traffic from the town of Silang.
The bypass will be about 4 km long and constructed to Class 4 standards
(7.0 m pavement). There are no serious drainage problems but existing
culverts will be extended, except for one replacement. New culverts will
be needed fcr the Silang bypass.
23,       The present traffic volumes range between 1,800 and 3,500 vpd,
increasing from Silang to Las Pinas. The traffic growth rates are estimated
at 12% p.a. until 1976, and 8% thereafter. In the upland region near
Tagaytay, fruits, vegetables and some rice are grown, while mostly rice is
cultivated in the lowlands near Las Pinas. Tagaytay, with Lake Taal, is a
tourist attraction, which will benefit from the road improvements.
Tarlac-Lingayen (82 km)
24.       The road starts at the north outskirts of Tarlac (136,000) on the
Manila north road and runs northward through Camiling (50,000), to
Bugallon (32,000) and Lingayen (57,000). Although between Tarlac and
Bugallon some areas are hilly and rolling, the road itself traverses
generally flat terrain. Near Lingayen the road is close to sea level and
suffered extensive damage during the floods of 1972. The Tarlac-Bugallon
section also is subject to floods during the rainy season, due to the
mountainous terrain to the west which forms a large catchment basin. The
horizontal alignment of the road is fairly good, but the levels have to be
raised on some sections to prevent inundation. The width of the road pave-
ment is generally 6.1 m and shoulders vary from 1 to 2.5 m. Between Tarlac
and Lingayen, there are 16.2 km of gravel surface, 60.7 km of asphalt pave-
ment and 5.4 km of portland cement concrete pavement. Much of the existing
asphalt pavement is deteriorated and is reduced to a gravel surface. Re-
construction is required for the entire length, except for the stretches of
newly laid portland cement concrete pavement.
25.       The proposed improvements consist of reconstruction of the road
to Class 2 standards (6.1 m pavement). Urban sections are required through
six towns. New culverts, side drains and catch b sins will be needed to
improve the drainage system. Minor repairs are required for the permanent
bridges and their abutments, but five new bridges will be replaced.
26.       Traffic volume at present ranges from 1,700 to 600 vpd, decreasing
from Tarlac to Camiling and increasing from Bugallon to Lingayen. The
improved road will divert some through traffic from the Manila north road
between Tarlac and Dagupan. The area has an important agricultural produc-
tion, including mainly rice, corn, coconuts, sugarcane, camote (sweet po-
tatoes) and tobacco. Most of the production is marketed in the Manila or
Baguio areas. Copper is produced west of Lingayen and concentrates may be
transported by road to San Ferrando (La Union) where a new copper smelter
is to be built.



ANNEX A
Page 8
Dagupan-Damortis (29 km)
27.       The road runs from Dagupan to Damortis where it joins the Manila
north road. The road crosses a delta area with rice paddies and fish ponds
near Dagupan and then goes through uncultivated land. The alignment is
generally acceptable, but there are some short stretches where improvements
are necessary.  The pavement is of asphalt, 6.1 m width, with inadequate
shoulders and poor drainage facilities. There are two temporary bridges
which nave a posted capacity of three tons and allow one-way traffic only.
28.       Improvements to the road consist of providing a new bituminous
concrete surface and the reconstruction of shoulders, all to Class 2
(6.1 m pavement) standards. The side drains and ditches will be cleaned
and reshaped and culverts will be extended or replaced. The two temporary
bridges will be replaced by new ones.
29.       The present traffic varies from 1,600 to 900 vpd, decreasing
gradually from Dagupan to Damortis. The estimated traffic growth rate
is 8% until 1976 and 5% thereafter. The agricultural area, with a low
density of population, has a lower growth rate than the area between Tarlac
and Lingayen.
Santa Barbara-Calasiao (8 km)
30.       The project starts east of Santa Barbara and stops west of
Calasiao. It consists of the construction of two bypasses of Santa
Barbara and Calasiao, and the improvement of the existing road in between.
The construction of the two bypasses and improvement of the link will be
to Class 2 (6.1 m pavement) standards.
31.       The present traffic volumes vary from 1,300 to 2,600 vpd and is
estimated to grow at 8% p.a. until 1976 and at 6% thereafter. About 60% of
the traffic on the existing road is expected to divert to the two bypasses.
The road section in between will carry heavy traffic which should reach
about 9,000 vpd in 1995.
C. Rehabilitation of Minor Roads (700 km)
32.       The floods of 1972 caused severe damage to the entire road
network in the central Luzon plain, including minor roads feeding the
national roads. These minor roads come under the responsibility of
provincial and local authorities, which were generally unable to undertake
their rehabilitation due to lack of funds. About 1,100 km of roads have
been identified and are located in eleven provinces. Only about 700 km
will be finally selected for improvement when the work on adjacent and
major roads proposed for reconstruction and improvement under the project
will be carried out.



ANNEX A
Page 9
33.       Tne present condition of these minor roads is very poor, with
rough earth or gravel surface, narrow widths, and lacking drainage and bridges,
thus making them impassable during rainy seasons. Their rehabilitation
will benefit mainly the local population and increase the feasibility of
the other roads under the project as some additional generated traffic
is expected. The improvements to minor roads will consist mainly of widen-
ing, resurfacing with gravel or double surface treatment of the pavement,
plus installation and repair of drainage and ditches. The works will be
kept to a minimum, which should average US$10,000 per km.
October 16, 1973






TAEBLE 1
PH:LIPPINtES
SECOND H-IGi&fY PRiOJECT
Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic Data, 1968 and 1971
1968                                  1971
ireight                Ton-!an                             Ton-im
(%m(illion)       (dlI o)
c/
.ioad                   3,520      57                       N.A.
Coastal Shipping        2,510      41                       N.A.
±&ailwayIJ                150       2                        59
Aviation                   10        -                      N.A.
Total              6,190     100                                   100
Passengers              Pass-km                            Pass-Ima
(mili)                           (million) )
.ioad                  15,650      82                       N.A.
Coastal Shipping        1,570       8                      N.A.
tailway                 1,210       6                      717
Aviation                  780        4                     t524
19,210     100                                   100
1/  Apply to the prima-ry transport network, as defined in t .9e Ketra/Sauti
Transport Survey, comprising 10,000 km of national highways, 37 national
ports, 740 Ian of railroads and 37 airports.   No information or estimate
available for balance of network.
7J  Statistics not available at present; however, technical assistance component
included in this project should generate these data in the future.
Source: Giovernment and Consultants' estimates.
September 1973



±JI^JV   t
p  ILI PPI JVES
SECOA'MD HJXIdhVLY PROJECT
Public Transport Investzaent Programs
FY1968/72 and F_.TrI974/77
(million Pesos)
1/
_    67 /68 -1971/72               S1973 /74-I976/77
j.c1ial Sources                  iTnancial Sources
Transport .'ode       Local  Foreiga_/  Total   %        Local  F'oreign1/  Total  ,
I1iChwrra-s           1,270    320       1,590  30       3,054    870       3,924  73
1il'port, and
Navigation             25      76         211  10         236    164         400   7
Port . Jorks            121      8         129   6         343  - 183   9       6  10
xPilways                 25     55          80   4         220    290         510  10
Total             1,551    45               100      3,853      57      5 360 100
Total Public Infra-
structure Ebpenditures                 4,040                            12,400
Transport as proportion of Total           50%                                43%
1/  I'Actual expenditures.
2/  2oreign sources equivalents were converted into Pesos at the rates of
US$1 = p3.93 for 1968/69-1969/70 and US$1 = P6.43 for 1970/71-1971/72.
3/  Foreign sources converted at the rate of US$1 = F6.80.
3ource:  .'ational F,concric Development .uthority
November '973



TABLE 3
PHIIIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Public Highway Network, 1972
Total              Paved
Category and Type     Length   Concrete  Bituminous    %    Gravel    %   Earth    %
Nationa1 Highways:=/
Expressway              47         47        -        100     -       -     -
Primary               7,437     1,465     2,246        50   3,583     48    143    2
Secondary           13,878      1,077    3,581        34   7,759      56  1,461   10
SSub-total       21,362      2,5&9     5,827       39  11,342      53  1,604    8
Local Roads;
Provincial          26,103        278     2,995        12  16,047     57  8,783   31
City                 4,700        219     1,374        34   1,866     40  1,240   26
Municipal           13,045        302     1,133        11   5,809     45  5,800   44
Other               14,378         43       860         6   6,617     46  6,855   48
Total             81,588      3,431    12,189       19  41,681      51 24,282   30
Ioad Density in 1972:
KxJaOKm2              0.3
Km/1,o0o  inhabitants  2.1
1/  Under the Bureau of Public Highways
Source: Bureau of Public Highways
September 1973



TABLE h
PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGhWAY PROJECT
Motor Vehicle  6tatia,t7   -
Year          Cars      Jeeps     Jeepneys       Trucks      Buses       Othery    Tb tal
1962         55,693    26,217       14,353      60,222      14,055      28,122    198,662
1963         58,9130    29,051     15,744       72,881      14,903       17,253    208,742
1964         71,262    34,477      16,585       81,400      13,542      37,618    254,884
1965         84,262    43,369      18,483       90,415      12,983      23,711    273,223
1966         95,146    45,296      22,543       97,489      14,218      35,961    310,653
1967        115,729    53,075      24,582      1014,524     12,028      50,110    363,048
1968        135,872    66,131      31,137      118,447      14,327       47,303    413,217
1969        163,424    70,616      35,570      124,139      13,662       39,360    446,771
1970        167,100    76,700      32,500      133,700      13,200      35,400    458,600
1971                                                         14,338
1972        185,269    86,560      35,284      140,481      14,765       34,376    496,735
Average Annual Change (%)
1962-1972   12.8       12.._iL               _ ......._           _ __  2 -6
1962-1970    t 8        1.4.      -10.7 _       10.5      -0.7          3.0        11.0
1970-1972 =  5.3         6.2      -4 4.2         2.6        5.9         -1.5        4.1
Changing Composition (%)
1962         28        13           7           31          7          14         100
1972         38        17            7          28          3           7         100
1 Vehicleper 78 population (1972), eompared to 1 per 50 in Tha law4 and 1 per 206 4n Korea.
Motor Vehicles Assembled in the Philippines
_FY 1965-1971
Passenger                    Commercial
Year                       Cars                         Vehicles                  Total
965                       7,448                         5,097                   12,545
-966                      10,753                        4.,272                   15,025
1967                      12,641                        6,034                    18,675
1968                      11,292                        6,112                    17,404
1969                      13,249                         6,394                   19,643
1970                       7,536                         6,194                   13,730
1971                       9,347                        9,690                    19,037
/  N>ilitary, public service, taxis, diplomatic, etc.
Source: Land Transport Commission and Bureau of the Census.
saptembew,  9y73



PHILIPPINES
SEJ0OND HICTIr{dAk  PUJ.SCT
M'otor Vehicle Fuel Consumption, _I  9G62-71
Ascal Year                    Gasoline                       Diesel Aiul
(rillion liters)               (1,000 met-ic Lons)
1962                        1,109                           -1,vé-L
1963                        1,186                               770
1964                        1,375                            1,101
1965                        1,345                            3, ,6
1966                        1,486
1967                        1,778                             1,517
1968                        1,878                            1,.',
1969                        2,206                            1,30C
1∞70                        2,285                            1,59?
1971                        2,367                             J 663
Average Annu.l Increase (;)
1962-1971                        8.8                               3.7
1970-1971                        3.6                               I. 0
Source:  Bureau of Public Highways
September 1973



PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures by Highway Works and Source of Funds,_FY i962-1972
(millimn Pesos)
Item                        1962   1963      1964   1965   1966   1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972
Administration  /            18.3   19.9    33.9   25.3   29.7 I25.3   32.3             2   _         5        7.2
Highway Special Funds      11.4   14.3    23.6   18.2   24.0   19.1   24.5   29.6   30.9   26.0    26.6
Other Funds                 6.9    5.6    10.3    7.1    5.7    6.2          7.8   11.4   24.1   26.5    43.6
Maintenance                     5       5     64.5   83.8   82   73.0   127.0  125.7  104.0  121.6   155.6
Highway Special Funds      46.3   50.3    64.3   83.6   83.7   72.4  126.0  125.5  103.5  121.3   155.6
Other Funds                 0.2    0.2       0.2     0.2    0.5    0.6       1.0     0.2     0.5    0.3
Construction.V               60.1   73.7    77.2  122.5   66.5  172.7  192.1   180.4  346.3  21.7- Ig -
Highway Special Fundsl'    29.9   45.4    55.6  100.0   32.2  103.1  103.3   88.5  147.7    89.8   116.2
General Funds              16.3   19.1    18.6    3.3   25.9    7.4   22.7   18.8  149.5  112.8   178.7
Bond Funds                 12.5    7.4       2.5   18.1    7.7   60.8   64.6   70.2   45.8    3.0             1.1
Other Funds                 1.4    1.8       0.5     1.1    0.7    1.4    1.5        2.9     3.3   10.1       7.9
TOTAL                        124.9  144.1    1       231.6  1ß%.   271.0   31.4  347.1    2          389.8   $12.L
1/ Includes loan amortization
g/ Includes improvement
3/ Expenditures are for improvements only
Source: Bureau of 1-ublic Highways
September 1973



PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Expenditures on Highways by Roa Syutem+"FY 1962-1972
(million pesos)
System                      1962    1963     1964    1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971         1972
National Roads               84.6    97.4    114.0   159.2   111.7   195.6   244.6   238.2   373.4   275.5    381.8
ProviiAial/City roads        22.7    25.2     30.9    41.1    34.5    43.7    62.4    61.8    76.8    67.5         91.3
Municipal Roads              10.8    11.8      14.7    19.4    16.8    20.1    29.4    29.3    34.6    31.7        42.6
Loan Amortization             6.8     9.7      15.8    11.9    17.4    11.6    15.0    17.8    20.5    15.1        14.0
Total                       124.9   144.1    175.6   231.6   180.4   271.0   351.4   347.1   505.3   389.8    529.7
1/ Expenditures of National Government only.
Source:  Bureau of Public Highways
September 1973



PHILIPPINES
SECCWD HIGHWU PROJECT
Highway User Charges, F! 1962-1971
(million Pesos)
Item                            1962    1963    1964    1965    1966    1967          1968     1969     1970     1971
1. Fuel Oil Taxes /             96.2    99.3   116.4    114.6   123.5   145.1   152.8   181.3   189.0  ;198.5
l.a   RA-1435               14.7    14.5    17.1    17.6    17.9    20.1    21.4    25.4    27.3    28.5
1.b  RA-917                 81.5    84.8    99.3    97.0   105.6   125.0   131.4   155.9   161.7   170.0
2. Motor Vehicle Fees #         40.5    45.4    52.4    56.o    63.5    68.5    81.6    85.2    96.7   101.8
2.a  Motor Vehicle
Registration        n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       50.7    56.2    55.2    72.2    74.7    85.2    88.5
2.b  Licenses and Plates   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.         3.2      3.7      4.3      4.4      4.5      4.8      5.8
2.c  Miscellaneous          n.a.    n.a.    n.a.        2.1      3.6      9.0      5.0      6.0      6.7      7.5
3.  Total                      136.7             168.8   1706   18.         213.6   234.4
4. Annual Increase (%)           ..       5.8    16.6    11.0        9.6    14.2       9.7    13.6       7.2      5.1
5. Earmarked for Highway
Special Fund             122.1   130.2   151.7   159.8   169.2   193.5   213.1   241.0   258.5   VZ.L
1/ Fuel oil taxes include taxes on gasoline, diesel fuel and lubricants
2/ Mtor vehicle fees include registration fees, drivers' and conductors' licenses, fees on plates, and r&is-
cellaneous, e.g., fines, penalties, suroharges, Detailed breakdown of the data is not available for FY 1962-64.
Sourcer Bureau of Public Highways
September 1973



PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAr PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
Terrain                                                           Flat                                                    Rolling                                                  Mountainous
Clasa of Road 1/                      1         2         3        4         5   Expressway    1          2         3         4         5   Exoressway    1           2         3        4          5   Expressway
Design speed (km/h)                           60        70        80       100       120                 50        60        70        90       110                 40        50        60        80       100
Pavement width (m)                            6.10      6.70      7.00    2x7.30   2x7.30                6.10      6.70      7.00   2x7.30    2x7.30                6.10      6.70      7.00   2x7.30    2x7.30
Median width (m)                               -        -         -        4.00      12.00               -         -         -         4.00    12.00                -         -         -         2.00    4.00
Sho.~lder width (m)                           2.00      2.50      2.50    3.00       3.00                1.50      2.00      2.00      3.00    3.00                 1.00      1.50      1.50      3.00    3.00
Right of way (m)                              30        60        60       60        60                  30        60        60        60       60                  30        60        60        60       60
Stopping sight distance (m)                   70        90        110      180       260                 60        70        90        150      230                 50        60        70        120      190
Passing sight distance (m)                    350       400       450      600-     800-                 300       350       400       525-./   700-/               275       300       350       4502/   600-2/
Maximum superelevation (%)                    6.5       6.5       6        5.5       5.0                 7.5       7.0       6.5       6.0      6.0                 8.5       7.5       7         7        6.5
Minimum horizontal radius (m)                 150       200       280      500       750                 90        140       200       350      550                  50       85        130       240      400
Structural Design:  "Standard Specifications for Highway Bridges"  adopted by the Arierican Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO).
Loading: HS 20-44 & HS 15-44
Pavement Design:    Based on an equivalent standard 8-ton single axle load.
1/ Class I is intended to cover rehabilitation of an existing road of any class, such as improvement of pavement, reshaping of shoulders, repairs of drainage, etc.
The vertical and horizontal alignments, however, are kept basically unchanged.
2/ Only to be applied if constr.cted as an undivided highway in the initial stage.
Source:  Bureau of Public Highways
S ptombe.r, ∞07,



PHILIPPIT'ES
SECOND HIGHM'AY PR0Ji]CT
Minor Roads Identified for Rehabilitation-
Length                 Istirrtated Cost
Province                                            th ousa        J
1. Bataan                      4c/                   5,1160
2.  Batangas                   85                    5,360
3.  Bulacan                   1.1                     6,22(,
h. Laguna                      95                     5,300
5. Nueva Ecija                 24                    1,630
6. Pampanga                   107                    6,030
7. Pangasinan                 276                   ih,770
8.  Rizal                     129                    5,730
9. Tarlac                      bb                    5,590
10.  Quezon                     87                    4,920
11. Cavite                      49                    3, 090
Total                 17,100                  7010
1/ Final selection of sections of roads to be made during reconstruction and
improvement of contiguous national roads proposed in the project.
Source:  Consultants' izstimates
September 1973



TABLE n
PHILIPPINES
3.CGiND HIjHwAY PROJECT
List of ioads for Reconnaissance Study
Probable Road Length
Primary  Road    to be Selected for
Approx.Length       Improvement 1/
No        Locatiion                            (km)                 (km)
LUZON
1.  Tiwi-Tabaco-Legaspi                         36
VISAYAS
2. Bacolod-Escalante                           158                  200
San Carolos-Vallehermosa
3.  Vallehermnosa-Pontevedra                    70
4.  Bacolod-Hinigaran-Kabankolan                95                  100
5.  Iloilo- Roxas City-Estancia                192                  250
6.  Cebu-San Remegio                           109
7.  Talisay-Toledo                              38
MINDANAO
&.  Cagayan de Oro-Kabacan                     243                  200
9.  Digos-General Santos                        85
Total                           1,026                   750
Source:  Dureau of  rnlic [ijhrays a   fission estimates
'/  The location and individual length of minor roads are indicative only.
it is interded that there should be flexibility between areas.
2E.n.,-bber 1q73



PHIIP?INES                                                      TABLE 12
SECOND HIGH dAY PROJRCW
Estimated Datailad Project Costs
% Foreign
P (million)                  US$ (million)          Exchange
Km   Lozal   Foreign   Total        Local   Foreign   Total   Component
Part I _ Items Financed with IRBD Participation
A.  Construction of Exp ressw
Diii` angeles 2-lane, with 6 Ian of access mrads            51    97.7    119.5    217.2         14.4      17.5      31.9      55
F.  i3construction & Improvement of National Roads (640 km)
1. Malinta-Rosario, Class 4 standard                       200    38.5      55.3      93.8        5.7       8.1      13.8      59
2.  San Fernando-Gapan, Class 2 standard                    49      9.6     10.8      20.4         1.4      1.6       3.0      53
3.  San Fernando-Olongapo, Class 4 standard to
Dinalupihan, and Class 2 standard to Olongapo         57    20.3      22.9     43.2         2.9       3.4      6.3       53
4. Taytay-Calamba, varying standards                       136    o0.0      33.8      63.8         4.4      5.0       9.4       53
5.  Santc Tomas-Batangas, Class 4 standard                  43     8.5       9.6      18.1        1.3       1.4       2.7      53
6.  Tagaytay-Las Pinas, Class 4 standard                    36      8.6      9.6      18.2         1.3      1.4       2.7      53
7. Tarlac-Lingayen, Dagupan-Damortis and
Santa Barbara-Calasiao, Class 2 standard             117    p3.7      26.8     50.5         3.5       3.9      7.4       53
C. Rehabilitation of Minor Roads                               700    14.0      13.6      47.6                  2.0       7.0       30
&ab-total A, B and C ?∞2iS;   -  a2
D.  Consulting Services            b.C25
i.  Supervision of A, B and C                                     p8.6      29.3      57.9        4.2       4.3       8.5      50
2.  Feasibility Studies and Engineering (137 km) and
pre-construction engineering services                        2.1       2.0      4.1         0.3       0.321    0.6       50
3. Detailed Engineering following feasibility studies
financed by UNIP for the preparation of the Third
and Fourth Highway Projects                                  2.5      18.8     31.3         1.8       2.8      4.6       61
4. Technical Assistance to continue assistance
previously financed by UNIW                                  1.4      10.2     11.6         0.2       1.5       1.72/    88
5. Training                                                        0.2       0.7       09        _-         0.1       0.1      95
Sub-total D                           144.8    61.0    105.8                   9.0      15_.
E. Project Preparation and Supervision Office
To be headed by an expatriate expert to manage all
IBRD projects                                                    2.0       0.7       2.7        0.3       0.1       0.42
F.  Weighbridges for axle-load control                                  0.7      3.4       4.1         0.1      0.5       0, 6  83
G.  Contingencies
1.  Physical (10% on all items)                                   31.8      38.0      69.8         4.7      5.6     10.3
2.  Price escalation (13% on A and B)                             30.8      37       _0.3         4.5       5.5     10.04/
Sub-total G                           62.6               32                   11.1      2C-.3
1Cotal Financed with IBRD Participation .  .... .. .         381.0   Y14o.5    823.5         06        65      121 0       514
Part TI - Itemo F'inanced with UNDP Participation
1. ReIonnais:ance and Feasihility Studies (1,800 km)                    1.4      6.1       7.5        0.2       0.9       1.1      82
Piart III - Itern !'inanced Excluisively by Government
1.  b s-oi'-'alay Cost. (Items A & B)                                  41.6      - -      41.6         6.1      _ -       6.1
xlt4il Project Cost .1424.0   14148.6    872.6                                               62.3     65.9    128.2        51
1/  Retroecbive financing (para. u1.09)
2/ Incluures retroactive financing for US$ 18G,000
3/ Includes retoactive financing for US$50,0C0 for the expert to head the office; he assumed duties on September 1, 1973
(para. 14.15)
-    saition approximately 12' per annum on total costs.
NOvember 1973



TABLE 13
Pt{ILIPPINI1S
SECOND HIGHdAY PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year & Quarter                        Cumulative IRisbursemente
US$ (million)
1973/74
March 31, 1974                                          4.4
June 30, 1974                                            8.0
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                     14.9
December 31, 197)4                                      22.0
March 31, 1975                                          29.2
June 30, 1975                                           36.8
1 975/76
September 30, 1975                                     45.8
December 31, 1975                                       55.2
March 31, 1976                                          58.1
June 30, 1976                                           61.0
1g76/77
September 30, 1976                                     63.9
December 31, 1976                                      66.1
March 31, 1977                                          67.7
June 30, 1977                                           68.o
Source: Governaent/Bank satimates
November 1973



flisBLE -14
SECONDi) HGH.iviY PROJECT
Estimated Traffic Growth on Proj.ect 3oads
(, P.a.)
Generated
,Uozna1 Growth 1972-1995         Traffic
Cars Jeepneys Buses Trucks        1976-77
Construction of Express.iay
1. Burol-Angeles (without toll)         11      3        4      6            15
2. Burol-Angeles (with toll)            11      3        4      6            - 1/
B. Rieconstruction and Improvement
of National Roads
1. Malinta-xiosario                     12      3        4      6            15
2. San Fernando-Gapan                     7.9   2        3      4            15
3. San i?ernando-Olongapo                11.5   2        3      6            15
4. Taytay-Galamba                        10     6        6      6            15
5. Santo Tomas-Batangas                 11.8   3         3      6            15
6. Tagaytay-Las Pinas                     9     9        3      6            15
7. Tarlac-Lingayen                        7.5   1.5      2      5            15
8e Dagupan-Damortis                       7.5   1.5      2      4            15
9. Santa Barbara-Calasiao                 7.5   1.5      2      4            15
Source: Consultants' Estimates
1/ No significant generation of new trips will occur.
September 1973



TA9LA 15
PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGBUAY PRJECS
Traffic Volumes on Proiect Roads
Average Annual Daily Traffic                 Average Estimated
New Road               9Forecat                                  Traffic Growth (% p.a.)
Length                   Weighted
km_ _      dan         Averase      1976    1985      1995      1972-76   1976-95 -
A. Construction of Expresswav
1. Burol-Angeles (without toll)  -         51           Not        (5,490)    9,330   21,280   48,560        14.2       8.6
applicable
B. Reconstruction and Improvement
of National Roads                                                                                    bA
1. Nalinta-Rosario                        200       1,460-11,400    5,860      8,900   20,330   50,380       11.0       9.1
a. Tabang-Angeles                       51       7,120-15,270    9,150      6,220   14,200   32,370       14.2       8.6
2. San Fernando-Gapan                      49         820- 1,700    1,080      1,490    2,620    4,560        8.4       5.8
3. San Pernando-Olongapo                   57       1,670- 4,780    2,700      3,840    9,550   16,000        9.2        7.4
4. Taytay-Calamba                         136       1,100- 8,240    1,800      2,780    6,210   13,480       11.4        8.2
5. Santo Tomas-Batangas                    43       1,860- 5,450    3,620      5,360   11,680   27,46(#'    10.3         8.5-
6. Tagaytay-Las Pinas                      38       1,750- 3,450    2,590      4,020    9,090   20,040       11.6        8.4
7. Tarlac-Lingayen                         82         630- 1,690    1,270      1,740    3,030    5,200        8.3        5.6
8. Dagupan-DamDrtis                        29         940- 1,560    1,230      1,670    2,870    4,820        8.0        5.4
9. Santa Barbara-Calasiao                   8       1,300- 2,590    2,200      3,080    5,260    9,040        8.6        5.6
/ After opening in 1976, a non-toll Burol-Angeles expressway extension vould carry about 60% of the corridor traffic, to be
diverted from the Tabang-Angeles section of the lenila north road.
O/ With the toll trial expressway, the traffic carried to be diverted from the existing Tabang-Angeles section, is expected
to be less than 60Z of the corridor traffic, together with a lover growth rate due to a loss of generated traffic.
3/ Traffic remaining on the Tabang-Angeles road section after the opening of the non-toll Burol-Angeles expressway, is
estimated to represent 40X of the corridor traffic,
g For the economic calculations the maxizmzm traffic volumes used are those corresponding to the years when the capacity (about
25,000 vpd) of the various roads (level B of the highway capacity manual, 1965) has been reached; afterwards, volumes
assumed remain constant.
5/  Traffic growth estimated applies to the 1976-95 period;  however in the economic calculations, the periods are limited for
some highways reaching design capacity before 1995.   Exceptions apply to a  1976-88; S 1976-85;  / 1976-90;  l 1976-92;
afterwards, a zero growth rate is assumed.
Source, Consultants  and Mission   EStimates
September 1973



PBILIFPINES
SECOND RiCGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs and Saving. on Project Roads. 1976
(Pesos per I=, excluding Taxsi)
Cars                                       Jeepneys                                      Buses                                      Trucks
Existiag      Improved        Saving          Existing      Improved        Saving         Existing      Improved       Saving           Existing    Improved       Saving
Road        Road           per km   %      _Road           lead          per bs  7         od           Road         per k    7         Road         Road        Per rm    %
Excluding Passengers' Time Savin!
A.  Construction of Expressway
1.  Burol-Angeles, vithout toll        .19        .13             .6      32       .17            .ll           .6    35         .51           .32          .19      37       .59          .37         .22      38
2.  Burol-Angeles,  .ith toll         .19         .13             .6      33       .17            .11            .6    35        .51           .32          .19      37       .59         .36           .23     39
B. Reconstruction snd Improvement
of National Roads
1. Malinta-Rosario                    .17         .14            .3       18      .16             .14            .2    10        .45            36            9      20       53           42           .11     21
a. Tabang-Angeles                 : ,15       .13            .2       10      .13             .12            .1     6        .42           .37           .5      13       .45          .40          .5      it
2.  San Fernando-rapan                .17         .13            .4       22      .16             .12            .4    24        .48           .34          .14      30      .57           .40          .17     30
3.  San Fernando-Olongapo             .17         .14            .3       15       .16            .13            .3    17        .47           .39           .8      16      .56           .46          .10     18
4.  Taytay-CalaSeba                    .16        .13             .3      16       .14            .12            .2    16        .44           .35           .9      20       .54          .43          .11     21
5.  Santo Tomas-Bstang.a              .14         .13            .1        9       .13            .12            .1     a        .41           .36           .3      11      .47          .42            .5     11
6.  Tagaytay-las Pinas                 .15        .13            .2       11      .14             .12            .2    13        .43           .36           .7      16      .50           .42           .8     16
7.  Tarisc-LiaRayen                    .17        .13            .4       21      .17             .12            .5    27        .51           .35          .16      31       .59          .40         .19      32
b.  Dagupan-nasortis                   .14        .13            .1        9       .15            .12            .3    19        .42           .35           .7      17      .51           .40         .11      21
9.  Santa Barbara-Calasiao            .14         .13            .1        9      .15             .12            .     '9        .62           .S* .                  '        : lS .1                          Zi   -      j
including Passenaers' Time Savings
4.  Construction of Expresawy
1.  Burol-Angeles, without toll       .28         .18           .10       36      .29            .18            .11    38        .85           .52          .33     39       .59           .37          .22     38
2.  Burel-Angeles, with toll           .28        .18            .10      36       .29            .7            .12    40        .85           .50          .35      41      .59           .36         .23      39
B.  Reconstruction and Improvement
of Rational Roads
1.  Malinta-Rosario    1.25                        20            .5       19       .26            .21            .5    19        .76           .61          .15      20       .53          .42         ,11      21
a. Tabang7Angelea                 .22         .20            .2        7      .22            .21             .1     5        .4.59                       ,5      8       .45          .40           .5    *1
2.  San Fernando-Gap a                 .27        .20            .7       25      .29             .21           .8    28         .84           .58          .26      31      .57           .40         .17      30
3.  San Fernando-Olonapo              .27        .22            .5       18       .30            .24            .6    20        .t3           .67          .16      20      .56          .46          .10      18
4.  Taytay-Calamba                     .25         .21           .4       15       .27            .23            .4    15        .78           .64          .14      is      .54           .43          .11     21
5.  Santo Tomas-Batangas               .23        .21            .2        7      .24             .22            .2     8        .70           .63          .t       10      .47          .42            .5     11
6. Tagaytay-Las Finas                  .22         .19            .3      12       .23            .20            .3    13        .69           .58          .11      15       .50          .42           .8     16
7.  Tarlac-Lingayen                    .27        ,20            .7       27       .30            .21            .9    30        .87           .59          .28      32       .58          .40          .19     32
8.  Dagupasn-Dasortis                  .25        .20            .5       20       .30            .21            .8    28        .82           .60          .22      27       .51         .40           .11     21.
9.  Santa Barbara-Calasiao            .25         .20            .5       20       .30            .21            .S    28        .82           .60          .22      27       .51         .40          .11      21
I/ After Expressway Extension has been built.
Source:  Consultants  and Mission Estitates.
.v *creer l^ 73



PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Strease
(aillioi Pesos)
Construction of Expressway
1. Burol-Angeles (without toll)
Benefits                                                     Net Benefits
Costs                          Oerating cost savings without tine  Operating cost savings with time        lithout Time        With Time
Construction,       Maintenance                      Burol-      Tabang                  Burol-      Tabarn,
Right of Way      8urol    Tabatg                 Angeles 1  Angeles I/               Angeles    Aeles _
Year  and oS_ rvision   Angeles  Anaelesi   Total        ,raffic    Traffic      Total      Traffic     Traffic     Total
(1)              (2)      (3)   (1)+(2)+(3)      (5)         (6)      (5)+(6)       (8)          (9)      (8)+(9)          (7) - (4)         (10) - (4)
(4)                                t7)                                (10)              (11)               (12)
1973     10.906                               10.906                                                                                 - 10.906             -10.906
1974     57.819                               57.819                                                                                 --57.819              -57.819
1975    100.609                              100.609                                                                                - 100.609             -100.609
1976     42.457           0.319    -0.245     42.531      19.120      6.54f       25.662      27.016      9.644      36.760          - 16.869              -5.771
1977      4.377           0.343    -0.253      4.467      21.452      7.239)      28.691      30.754     10.956      41.709            24.224               37.242
1978                      0.367    -0.261      0.106      23.856      7.936       31.792      34.619     12.268      46.887            31.686               46.781
1979                      0.391    -0.269      0.122      26.333      8.633       34.966      38.585     13.580      52.165            34.844               52.043
1960                      0.416    -0.275      0.141      28.756      9.328      38.084       42.b94     14.891      57.385            37.943               57.241
1981                      0.425    -0.277      0.148      29.637      8.504      38.141       42.673     13.898      56.571            37.993               56.423
1982                      0.434    -0.279      0.155      30.539      7.680       38.219      42.852     12.905      54.757            38.064               54.602
1983                      0.443    -0.281      0.162      31.430      6.856      37.286       43.032     11.912      54.944            37.124               54.782
1984                      0.452    -0.283      0.169      32.321      6.032      38.353       43.211     10.919      53.130            38.247               53.145
1985                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      33.209      5.207      38.416       43.390      9.924      53.314            38.241               53.139
1986                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      34.617      3.933      38.550       45.117      7.583      52.700            38.373               52.625
1987                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      36.024      2.659      38.683       46.844      5.242      50.086            38.708               49.911
1988                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572      2.902      51.474            36.640               51.300
1989                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1,386       38.816      48.572      2.902      51.474            36.640               51.300
1990                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572      2.902      51.474            36.640               51.300
1991                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572      2.902      51.474            36.640               51.300
1992                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572      2.902      51.474            36.640               51.300
1993                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572      2.902      51.474            36.640               51.300
1994                      0.460     -0.285     0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572       2.902     51.474            36.640               51.300
1995                      0.460    -0.285      0.175      37.430      1.386       38.816      48.572       2.902     51.474            36.640               51.300
ER - 14.364             20.96%
4,1/-ving&s in maintenance and vehicle operating costs, accruing to the parallel Tabang-Angeles section of the existing Manila North Road due to a substantial diversion
of traffic to the proposed Burol-Angeles expressway extension.
2/ Savings in vehicles operating costs to the traffic diverted from the existing Tabang-Angeles section to the proposed Burol-Angele  expressway extension.
Sources: Consultants and Mission   Estimates






TABLE 18
page 1 of 7
PRILIPPINE&
SEC0OND HIGHWAY FRCJECT
Estimated Costa and Bersefits Streams
tthusabnd Pesos)
Reconstruction and uproveaunt of National Roads
1. Malinta-RDsario
Costs
CoWnstrUction,       Savinpg in                                          Benefits
Right-of-way         )Aianterance                  Oprat- nW0ithou                       t rienI-its
Year       and  u      on          Costs       Total Coats    Without Time  WLth            WHt   Tmi Tim             e
1973          3,800                               3,800                                         -3,800         -3,800
1974         32,300                              32,300                                        -32,300        -32,300
1975         39,500                              39,500                                        -39,500        -39,500
1976          7,800                 297           7,503          11,145        12,367            3,,42          4,864
1977                                307             -307         11,951        13,039           12,258         13,346
1978                                513             -513         12,757        13,711           13,270         14,224
1979                                320             -320         13,563        14,383           13,883          1,703
1980                               328             -328          14,370        15,052           14,698         15,380
1961                                543             -543         15,478        16,348           16,021         16,891
1982                                323             -323         16,585        17,643           16,908         17,966
1983                                328             -328         17,692        18,938           18,020          19,266
1984                               574              -574         18,799        20,232           19,373         20,806
1985                                335             -335         21,137        23,320           21,472         23,655
1966                                336             -336         22,682        25,052           23,018          25,388
1987                                599             -599         24,231        26,780           24,830          27,379
1988                                339             -339          25,778       28,510            26,117         28,849
1989                                340             -340         26,946        29,860            27,286         30,200
1990                                624             -624         26,106        31,202            28,73)         31,832
1991                                345             -345          28,320       33,491            28,67'4        33,836
1992                                348             -348          29,150       35,779            29,498         36,127
1593                                654             -654         29,675        38,067            30,397         38,721
1994                                351             -35.          30,198       40,359            30,549         40,710
1995                                565             -565          30,726       43,003            31,291         43,568
ER       17.72%        18.50%
Sources:  Consultants aad Mission Estimates
September, 1973



TABLE 18
Page 2 of 7
PHnmPm
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Stiiated OCate and Benefits Streams
(tbo   Peos)a
Reconstruction and Inprovemnt of NatioDl Roado
2. San Fernando-Oapan
Costs
Construction,     ainip-- in                                     Benefits
Ri ght -of -way,   NMntsnanoe                 oprma08  gniret Be.ar±ta
Year       an  upriio        aWts         Total Costs    Wnnu  I         ltiTM          ithout R.ms   Vath Time
Year   and(Sl)pnso           (2)      M1-M2-(3)            (4)          ()(4)-(3)--(6J             ()-- 3)- 7)
1973          1,200                          1,200                                        -1,200         -1,200
1974          6,500                          6,500                                        -6,500         -6,500
1975          8,100                          8,100                                        -8,100         -8,100
1976          1,600           110            1,490          :.,599         2,403             109            913
1977                          111            - 111          :.,715         2,595           1,826          2,706
1578                          535            _ 535         :1,83i          2,788           2,366          3,323
1979                          ll             - 111          :L,947         2,982           2,058          3,093
1980                           12              112          2,065          3,175           2,177          3,287
1981                          539            - 539          .',190         3,41.3          2,729          3,952
1982                          113            - 113           ',315         3,651           2,428          3,764
1983                          113            - 113          ),440          3,889           2,553          4,002
1984                          544            - 544           ,565          4,127           3,105          4,671
1985                          1314           - 114          2,690          4,365           2,804          4,479
1986                          114            - l4           2,847          4,646           2,961          4,760
1987                          553            - 553          3,004          4,927           3,557          5,480
1988                          115            - 115          3,161          5,208           3,276          5,323
1985                          116            - 116          3,319          5,489           3,435          5,605
1990                          562            - 562          3,475          5,772           4,037          6,334
1991                          118            - 118          3,680          6,170           3,79&          6,288
1992                          119            - 119          2,885          6,568           3,004          6,687
1993                          575            - 575          4,090          6,966           4,665          7,541
1991                          122            - 122          4,295          7,364           4,417          7,486
1S95                          122            - 122          4,500          7,767           4,622          7,889
ER  r 12.74%         18.81%
sources: Cotsultants and Mission Rativatea
September, 1973



TABLE 18
Ta-g=e 3f 7
PHILIPPINES
3WOOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs and Benefits Streams
(thousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and Dmprovemant of National Roads
3. San Fernando-Olongapo
Costs
ConstrUction,    Savings in                                               Benefits
Right-of-way,    Maintenance                          Operating Cost Savings             Net Benefits
Year     and SuWrvision      Costs         Total Costa         Without Time   With Time   Without Time   With Time
(2)IF3T1                                           (5F        !E4?WT(3(T-F67
1973          1,700                           1,700                                          -1,700         -1,700
1974         21,200                          21,200                                         -o1,200         -21,200
1975         18,800                          18,800                                         -18,800         -18,800
1976          3,400            68             3,332               4,520          9,966        1,188          6,634
1977                           66               -66               4,950         11,124        5,016         11,190
1978                          220              -220               5,380         12,282        5,600         11,421
1979                           65              - 65               5,807         14,o4o        5,872          14,105
±980                           64              - 64               6,246         14,603        6,310         14,667
1981                          308              -308               7,342         16,646        7,650          16,S54
19c2                           64              - 64               8,438         18,689        8,502          18,753
1S83                           63              - 63               9,534         20,732        9,597          20,795
1984                          306              -306              10,630         22,775       10,936          23,081
1985                           64              - 64              1 ,722         24,812       11,786          24,876
1986                           65              - 65              12,022         26,277       12,087          26,292
1987                          305              -305              12,322         27,742       12,627          28,047
1988                           68              - 68              12,622         29,207       12,690          29,275
1985                           69              - 69              12,922         30,672       13,061          30,741
1990                          336              -336              13,216         32,129       13,552         32,465
1991                           73              - 73              12,726         32,404       12,799          32,477
1592                           75              - 75              12,236         32,679       12,311          32,754
1993                          362              -362              11,746         32,954       12,108         32,316
1954                           78              - 78              11,248         33,229       11,326         33,307
19i5                           80              - 80              10,777         33,510       10,857         33,590
15.23%        28.64%
Sources: Consultants and Mission Estimates
September, 1973



TABLE 18
Page 4 of 7
PHILIPPSI
SSCOND HIWL4r PRDJECT
Estimted Oests amn Buiefits streano
(thousaa. eooo)
Reconstruction and Impb eint of National Mads
4. Taytay-Calama                                                                        -
Costs
Construction,      Wvns in                                                 Benefits
Right-i-of-W,           uame                          Operating  Cost Savings          Net Benefits
Year     ad,Mo      aU        WE.2.1         Total Costa       VitlouzTI       WJTTM    Va.thout Time- 'With Time-
i         "       tz           t-P-MOU)              (4))  (14t)o(3)t (b) W(5)-h(3T) {
1973           3,000                               3,000                                          -3,000         -3,000
1974          24,500                              24,500                                         -24,500       -24,500
1975          30,000                              30,000                                         -30,000       -30,000
1976           4,800             55               4,745              4,433           8,522          -312         3,777
1977                             57                  -57             5,232          10,564         5,289        10,621
1978                            382                - 382             6,031          12,606         6,413         12,988
1979                             61                  -61             6,830          14,648         6,891         14,709
1980                             63                  -63              7,628         16,687         7,691         16,750
1981                            437                - 437             9,436          17,338         9,873         17,775
1982                             66                  -66             11,244         17,989        11,310         18,055
1983                             69                  -69             13,052         18,640        13,121         18,709
1984                            477                 -477             14,860         19,291        15,337         19,768
1985                             73                  -73            16,669          19,940        16,742         20,013
1986                             74                  -74            17,612          22,420        17,686         22,494
1987                            504                 -504             8,555          24,900        19,055         25,404
1988                             74                  -74            19,498          30,380        19,572         30,454
1S89                             74                  -74            20,441          29,860        20,515         29,934
1990                            509                 -509            21,384          32,338        21,893         32,847
1991                             78                  -78            24,487          35,377        24,565         35,455
1952                             82                  -82            27,690          39,616        27,772         39,698
1993                            449                 -449            30,693           43,255       31,142         43,704
1994                             90                  -90            33,796          46,894        33,886         46,984
1995                            443                 -443       -    36,898          50,528        37,341         50,971
ZR  =   15.58%       22.56%
Sources: consultants and Mission zstimates
September, 1973



TABLE 18
Page 5 of
PHILIPPIN$S
SECOND HIOHWAY PROJECT
Estiwated Coost and Benefits Stream
(t.housaand Pesos)
5. Santo Tomas-Batangas
Costs
Contrucio'n,       satngs In-                                           Benefits
dght.of..way,      Maintenance                       -operating  ot Bawl                Net Benefits
Year       and     rvitont                    Total Costs          ii                        Without TIM      With Tim
1973           1,000                            1,000                                          -1,000            -1,000
1974           8,80                             68,800                                         -.4800            -8,800
1975           7,800                            7,800                                          -7,800            -7,800
1976           1,700            114             1,586              1,061         2,776          - 525             1,190
1977                            116               -116             1,212         3,351           1,328            3,467
1978                            560               -560             1,289         3,733           1,849            4,293
1979                            119               -119             1,366         4,116           1,485            4,235
1980                            121               -121             1,446         4,489           1,567            4,610
1981                            585               -585             1,927         5,547           2,512            6,132
1982                            127               -127             2,412         6,604           2,539            6,731
1983                            129               -129             2,895         7,662           3,024            7,791
1984                            621               -621             ,,378         8,719           3,999            9,340
1985                            132               -132             3,857         9,775           3,989            9,907
1986                            134               -134             4,253         9,605           4,387            9,739
1987                            648               -648             4,649         9,436           5,297           10,084
1988                            137               -137             5,045         9,266           5,182            9,403
1989                            139               -139             5,441         9,097           5,560            9,236
1990                            664               -664             5,840         8,922           6,504            9,586
1991                            139               -139             5,347         9,094           5,486            9,233
1992                            140               -140             4,854          9,266          4,994            9,406
1993                            675               -675             4,361          9,438          5,036            10,113
1994                            141               -141             3,86d         9,611           4,009             5,752
lKy95                           141               -141             3,373          9,784          3,514             9,925
SR-   12.29%            23.83%
3ourcsa  Consultantis and   ggueon Eatip%at*g
S,ptewber, 1973



TABLE 18
Page 6 of 7
PHILIPPZS
SZCNWD BIGHWAX PROtECT
lEtiMated Costa and Beffi.ta Steama
(tbousand Pesos)
Reconstruction and IProvemnt of National Roads
6. Tagayt.ay-Laa Pinas
Costs
Cons5truction,      3av1n> in                                             Beneflt5
Right-of-way,      Naintenance                       0p rating Coat Savinga               Not Benefits
Year       and  er is$on         Costs         Total Costs      Wltbout                          i With Tl e   ithout Tise   With Time
( ~~~~(2)               (l)-(23=(3)   (4)    -               (5)          (4)-(3)-(S)      T.;' -(3 7)
1973           1,000                               1,000                                          -1,000         -1,000
1974           8,700                               8,700                                          -8,700         -8,700
1975           7,800                               7,800                                          -7,800         -7,800
1976           1,800             20                1,780             1,372         2,093          -  408            313
1977                             18                  -18             1,501          2,329          1,519          2,347
1978                             95                  -95             1,630          2,559          1,725          2,654
1979                             17                  -17             1,759          2,789          1,776          2,806
1580                             16                  -16             -,887          3,021          1,903          3,037
1581                             77                  -77             :,1148         3,492          2,225          3,569
1982                             14                  -14             2,409          3,964          2,423          3,978
1983                             14                  -14             2,670          4,435           2,684         4,449
1984                             57                  -57             2,931          4,908           2,988         3,045
1985                             13                  -13             3,196          5,379           3,209         5,392
1986                             13                  -13             :1,878         6,599          3,891          6,612
1987                             64                  -64             4,560          7,819           4,624          7,883
1988                             13                  -13             5,242          9,038          5,255          9,051
1589                             14                  -14             5,726         10,256          5,740         10,270
1990                             65                  -65             6,608         11,477          6,673         11,542
1991                             114                 -14             6,608         12,012           6,622        12,026
1592                             14                  -14             6,647         12,549           6,661        12,563
1993                             69                  -69             6,606         13,083           6,675        13,152
1994                             15                  -15             6,606         13,620           6,621        13,635
1995                             15                  -15             6,595         14,155           6,610        14,170
ER   -     12.62%        18.80%
Sources: Consultants and Mission Natimates
September, 1973



TABLt 18
PAP 7 of r
PHILIPi INES
SECOND HIG&hAY PROJECT
rstimated Costa ar.d Blenefits Streams
(thoulsand PeaosJ
Reconstroction and DIprozement of National Roads
7. Tarlac-Lingayent Dflortia-DaVpan and
Santa Barbara-Calasiao
Corstrctteion,    Savinge in                                        Benefits________________
Right-of-way,    Maintenanco                        rati   Cost afng             Net Beneits
Year      aDots                            Total Costa        tu  Tuft  With Ti       iathout Time  Vits Timt
1973         3,300                           3,300                                       -3,300         -3,300
1974        21,300                          21,300                                      -21,300         -21,300
1975        18,700                          18,700                                      -18,700         -18,700
1976                          286            - 286           5,448          8,512         5,734           8,798
1977         4,400            286            4,114           5,820          9,132         1,706           5,018
1978                        1,033           -1,033           6,187          9,750         7,220         10,783
1979                          287            - 287           6,567         10,368         6,854          10,655
1980                          288            - 288           6,928         10,985         7,216          11,273
1981                        1,037           -1,037           7,31I4        11,626         8,351          12,663
1982                          289            - 289           7,693         12,268          7,982         12,557
1983                          290            - 290           8,073         12,907         8,363          13,197
1984                        1,049           -i,4o9           8,452         13,549         9,861          14,958
1985                          291            - 291           8,829         14,191         9,120          14,462
186                          292            - 292           9,339         14,473         9,631          14,765
1987                        1,059           -1,059           9,849         15,957         10,908         17,016
1966                          29)4           - 294          10,361         16,839        10,655          17,133
1989                          295            - 295          10,871         17,723        11,166          18,018
1990                        1,072           -1,072          11,379         18,607         12,451         19,679
1991                          298            - 298          11,992         19,683        ±2,290          19,981
1992                          299            - 299          12,607         20,760         12,906         21,059
1993                        1,089           -1,089          13,220         21,837         14,309         22,926
199)4                         302            - 302          13,835         22,914        4i,137          23,216
1595                          304            - 304          14,448         23,992         14.,752        24,296
ER       14.99%         21.96%
Sources: Consultants and Mission Estimates
September, 1973






TABLE 19
PEILIPPINES
SEOND RIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sgnsitivitv Analysis
11         21       Passenger Time
Best      High        Low -        Savings Excluded
ZAUM&E2     EtIateU    Etimtat        from Benefits
A. Construction of ExpresIM
Burol-Angeles
(i)  without toll                               21           30          13               14
B. Reconstruction and Improvement of
_ational Roads
1. Malinta-Rosario                              19           25           13              18
2. San Fernando-Gapan                           19           25           13              13
3. San Fernando-Olongapo                         29          37           21              15
4. Taytay-Calanba                                23          30           16               16
5. Santo Toms-Batangas                           24          31           18              12
6. Tagaytay-Las Pines                            19          24           14               13
7. Tarlac-Lingayea         )
8. Dagupan-Damrtis                               22          29           16               15
9. Santa Barbara-Calasiao )
C. Rehabilitation of Minor Roads Q                  (No economic calculation)
About 700 km of low-class national,
provincial and other local roads.
I/ Assumes costs 15% lower and benefits 25X higher than in the best estimate.
2/ Assumes costs 15X higher and benefits 2SS lower than in the best estimate.
3/ Includes benefits from reduced congestion accruing to users of the existing parallel Tabang-Angeles
road section.
4/ The selection of these roads, included in the project after the severe 1972 floods, does not stem
from a regular economic justification to avoid delays from long studies, but results from au approx-
imate priority ranking method developed for this purpose (para. 5.16).
Source:  Consultants  and mission   estimates.
September 1973






PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS TRANSPORTATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
WATER RESOURCES .             ~~~SECRETARY                 BOARDS FOR
WAMITERESORE                                           _  TRNSO-I COMN-PWER &
COMMITTEE                  ~~~UNDERtSECRtETARY    TATION    CAIN    WAERWORKS
L TECH'3
ADMINISTRATIVE                 FINANCIAL AND                               PLANNING                         PROJECT EXECUTION
SERVICE                        MANAGEMENT SERVICE                          SERVICE                          SERVICE
PERSONNEL         LEGAL            BUDGET         ACCOUNTING        PROGRAMMING &       PROJECT DEVELOP-     MONITORING        EVALUATION
DOIVISION         DIVrSION         DIVISO         DIVISION    X    PLANNING             MENT AND EVALU-      DIVISION         DIVISION
DIVISION  DIVISION  DIVISION     DIVISION         DIVISION             ATION DIVISION
m.m                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RESEARCH AND  EQUIPMENT AND ADIST-
GENERAL SER-     INFORMATION               MANAGEMENT                           STATISTIC                    MATERIALS         TIEADMINISTRA-
VICES DIVISION   DIVISION                  DIVISION                             DIVISION                     MANAGEMENT        TIVE DIVISION
BUREAU OF            BUREAU OF          BUREAU OF            RADIO CONTROL          BUREAU OF           TUREECU OF 
PUBLIC HIGHWA'dI| PUBLIC WORKS          TRANSPORTATION       OFFICE                                     MUNICATIONS
(BPH)
World Bank-8045
Source: Department of Public Works Transportation and Communications






PHILIPPINES
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE BUREAU OF PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
| COMMISSIONER                                     E
fSS1NREGOS                     MCAIA
L  DEPUTY COMMISSIONER  |                                    | ~~~~~~~~~DEPUTY COMMISSIONER|
DEPUTY COMMISSIONER]                                 (FcHiEF~~~~~~~~~~~~ HIGHWAY ENGINEER)|
STAFF AND Ao MINISTRATION                                                                 OPERATIONS 3 D                           - B
PLANNING         FINANCIAL AND      ADMINISTRATIVE            DESIGN           CONSTRUCTICN           MAINTENANCE          MECHANICAL            SOIL &
D IV ISION       MANAG EM ENT          DlIVISION             D I VISI ON         D VISI ON              D IVISI ON         SE RV ICES          MATE R IALS
DIVISION                                                                                                DIVISION            DIVISION
.               ~~~~REGIONAL
11 REGIONS                    MECHAICAL
133 DISTRICTS/CITIES             il BASE SHOPS
Sourcre: BAAreau of P{JbliC Highways                                                                            AE  HP
World 8ank-7890 tR)






IBRD  10674
PTEBTEM 1973
Son V'its                                  AREA Of LUZON  AO
La_toW    ,                                                               C7   ?-            Ocean
N          K ) TuggSa So                                                      
V         ~~ABRA      )                                                          Sea          ` INDANAD\
(arvacan             u/gi
ILCSUR                 PROVINCE             llagan
tt;l -  X~~~IFUGAO               >         SBL 
Pacific
aga                                  ~~~~Ocean
Bauang  Cn   /        rf                ') ayomb'n
/Zas,gura
PHILIPPINES
8ugal                          (                                 SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
+' JON'.                   j'aJe:CONSTRUCTION
> >  \   ,mqu   EeMunozV        < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Baler  )
7 Y   r   \   7    \   ,    .   ,                                                 PROJECT ROADS
,3| 3   ./  T     <e       I zNfpA ECIJA \    >                                  CONSTRUCTION OF EXPRESSWAY
Mt  st    TARLAC  (anta   Rosa   !' /                                            RECONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF
TARLAC                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIOAL ROADS
,r            -l2*pan            !C                               .       NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
\ l,   Xges kx  XgXabe                                                       -EXPRESSWAYS
--.-- 'a       RAILWAYS
\+b,9,S 3 eju BULACAN        j                       << 4,, PRINCIPAL PORTS
?                 a rideurol  ,    _ '           S       a     9*+   PRINCIPAL AIRPORTS
eR-      D -DtSTRICT BOUNDARIES
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ltx\O 1 20   40   60   so   too
£fCr.     Jose Parbar/                     KItOMETERS
VI                                             INES~~~~~~~~~)CMAIE
SUR
*_                WF    ou    ,4,,&n  NantbD> ~~~amis
A'INDR                          AARoND,,
The bwdatis sshow. on thi sp dot mapORIENTAL
lmply ondon"n,-nt or  npwoco by the     PR]
World Bank ind its itofiates.                                                                                         ALBAY






IBRD-1Q675
118∞                          1220                         IZ2∞                           240                           126e SEPTEVMOR I9T
PHILIPPINES
The bo-dario shown on this map do not               i ,                SECOND   HIGHWAY    PROJ ET
i.ply etndqrtmt or tccpt-ne by thet,
W,rki ak ndit, affilitatJ                                                                 , OTHER   PROJECT   ELEMENTS         1         80
-180                                                      X                    San Vicente                   PRESENT PROJECT
t'--u  FEASIBILITY STUDIES AND ENGINEERING
........ UNOP FINANCED RECONNAISSANCE STUDY
I72 P *           CONSTRUCTION               FIRST HIGHWAY
I                | * -- FEASIBILITYSTUDIESAND/OR  PROJECT(LOAN
I               )               \ DETAILED ENGINEERING     73WH)
3 o (                              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
*liagan                    *     PRINCIPAL PORTS
4-    PRINCIPAL AIRPORTS
-1n¢                                      San Fomando    enget1
a22ilnortis,                                            0     0 fiO  O     50    100   I5    200
000150                                                       I osario  < /ILOMETERS
San Joaw
Tnr   nt Cabanata   L UZ  O  N
AsAngolos rGapan t
Fernando
M^NILAX .Pia
Taga ay I    BsSta.               P  FanPaniban
Namigh                                        ~~~~Pa cific
apa <nur  ' - irac    Ocean
South Chlna
Sea                                MIN ORG  -W5SA YA 
Sea                           X  )()~~~~~~~Odigoga;t<    5+                         d
SanJ                      1II
-12∞ r0K SanJosm y  <>    '>LIbayng   SMAR
eCuhSn          ct     t  >              MS8AJ    CWtabalgan               y
lion                                        Ma   S            cT
s     PA NAY                   o             i Or
de Sonavista   Ilnil ie a               
Pontevedr                      MaMas0n
I}on                                        SQ/uh  Sea                                                          BOO           Ba n \ . 
PALAWANKabank                                                                                                                                   IO.
PALAnN 4                                                                   ROSu 0                              Sarip *
4                             oa2                  CeJebes Se a   Dpt
CHINA                                    20∞                                                      co                    D
(?TAIWAN~INDNA
0101 AM              ~~~Pacific                                 Zmo
a~~~~~~~ca
PILIPPINES
KHMER                                        J~~~~~~~~~~~~~o]                                            enl
enuN
MALA 
ESI tESS                                                        1220                         If40



