Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17912-BO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
BOLIVIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION QUALITY AND EQUITY STRENGTHENING PROJECT
May 25, 1998
Human and Social Development Group (LCSHD)
Country Managing Unit - LCC6C
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1998)
Currency Unit = Boliviano
US$ 1.00 = Bs. 5.45
Fiscal Year: January I - December 31                                School Year: Febmuaiy I - November 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CAT          Training and Technical Assistance  ((''apacitaci6n y Asistencia
Tecnica)
CONAPSO    National Council for Social Policy (('.onsejo Nacional de Politica
Social)
DA           Administrative Decentralization (Descentralizaci6n A dministrativa)
DDeE         Departamental Education Directorate (Direccion Departamental de
Educacion)
DDiE         District Education Directorate (Direcci6n Distrital de Educaci6n)
FC           Competitive Grant Funds (Fondos Concursables)
FIS          Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Invervi6n Social)
GTZ          German Technical Cooperation (Cooperacion Thcnica A lemanaa)
HIPC         Heavily-Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initative
IDA          International Development Association
KfW          Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau
LDA          Administrative Decentralization  Law  (Ley de Devcentralizaci6n
A dmiinistrativa)
LRE          Education Reform Law (Ley de Refor,na Educativa,)
LPP          Popular Participation Law (Ley de Participaci6n Popular)
MECD         Ministry of Education. Culture and Sports (Ministerio de Educaci6n,
Cultura y Deportess)
MiAC         Ministrv of Fiiianice (Ministerio de Hacienda)
MP           Ministry of the Presidency (Ministerio cle la Presidencia)
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PD           Departamental Administration  (Prefectura Departa,nental)
PEN          Educational Project for Nucleus (Proyecto Educativo de Nucleo)
PDEM         Municipal  Educational  Development  Programii  (Programa  de
Desarrollo Educativo 'vlunicipal)
PRE          Education Reform Program (Programa de la Reforma Educativa)
SIDA         Swedish International Development Agency
SSIMPIE      Municipal Informationi Sub System  for Educational Infrastructure
Planning (Sub Sistema de Informaci6n Municapal para Infrestructura
Escolar)
SNE          National Education System (Sistemana Nacional de Educaci6n)
SSU          Social Sector Unit of Resident Mission
UNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF       United Nations Childreni Funid
UNSTP        National Unit for Technical and Pedagogical Services (U/nidad
Nacional de S'ervicios Tecnico-Pedag6gicos)
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VEIPS        Vice-Ministry for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education (Vice
Afinisterio de Educaci6n Inicial, Primariay ,;ecundaria)
VPP          Vice Ministry of Popular Participation
Vice President          Shalhid Javed Burki
Coulntr D)irector       Isabel (;uerrero
Counltry Sector Leader  Evangelinie Javier
TAsk Manager            Joluh Linconi Nevwan



Project Appraisal Document:                                                        Page A - 3
Country: BOLIVIA                                       Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Bolivia
Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Table of Contents
PROJECT FINANCING DATA                                                                4
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                          5
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES                                                  5
2. PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                              5
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION                                                  8
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATioN ARRANGEMENTS                                   9
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE                                                           10
5. CAS OBJECTIVES SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT                                        10
6. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY                                     11
7. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES             12
8. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION                      13
9. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES  14
10. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN                           14
1 1. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP                             15
12. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT                                                   15
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS                                                 16
13. ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT                                                           16
14. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT                                                          16
15. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT                                                          17
16. INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT                                                      17
18. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT                                                      19
19. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH                                                        19
20. SUSTAINABILITY                                                                19
21. CRITICAL RISKS                                                                19
22. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS                                                21
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CODNDITIONS                                                       21
23. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS:                                                     21
24. OTHER:                                                                        22
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES                                              22
List of Annexes
Annex 1:   Project Design Summary
Annex 2:   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:   Cost Effectiveness and Financial Analysis Summary
Annex 5:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6:   Project Processing, Budget and Schedule
Annex 7:   Documents in Project File
Annex 8:   Statement of Loans and Credits



Project Appraisal Document:                                                               Page A - 4
Country: BOLIVIA                                            Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Latin America
LCC6C
Project Appraisal Document
Bolivia
Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Date: May 25, 1998                                           O Draft                      X Final
Task Manager: John Newman                                   Country Manager: Isabel Guerrero
Project ID: BO-PA-6204                                      Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: SIL                                     PTI:        E    Yes           El   No
Project Financing Data                         Fl Loan    2  Credit         a  Guarantee      G Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 75m / SDR 55.7m
Proposed Tenms:                                rI  Multicurrency     L    Single currency
Grace period (years):       10          0   Standard          LI   Fixed             I]  LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity:     40 years
Comnnitment fee:         NA
Service charge:      0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                        Local                         Foreign                       Total
GoveCninenit                        '    28.00                           0.00                        28.00
IDA                                      73.44                           1.56                        75.00
Other: Germany                           13.00                           0.00                        13.00
Total                                    114.44                          1.56                       116.00
Borrower: Republic Of Bolivia
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry Of Education. Culture and Sports (MECD)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):          1998      1999      2000       2001     2002      2003
Arunual   6.25     14.00      19.75     18.00    12.00      5.00
Cumulative   6.25     20.25      40.00     58.00    70.00    75.00
For Guarantees:                                     LI  Partial Credit      L   Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:                  L    Yes                 L    No
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Expected effectiveness date: November, 1998                           Closing date: December 31, 2003



Project Appraisal Document:                                                               Page A -5
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project Development Objectives (See Annex I for key performance indicators)
Objectives
This project has the same ultimate objectives as the existing education reform project: to increase the number
of years of schooling completed (particularly at the primary level) and to improve the quality of that
schooling. It will also develop approaches to reduce gender disparities in educational outcomes in selected
municipalities where the differences are greatest.
To achieve these objectives, the project will complement the existing Education Reform by adding and
strengthening activities that, in the course of implementation, have appeared weak. Thus, the intermediate
objectives are to:
(a) provide integrated infrastructure and educational process improvements to approximately 500
school nucleus and educational process improvements to another 900 school nucleus;
(b) increase the participation of parents and teachers in the educational reform:
- through their involvement in the preparation of educational projects, prepared at the nucleus level;
and
- through a more active participation of the formal entities established under the Popular
Participation Law .- the Comites de Vigilancia (citizens who review policy and investments at the
municipal level) and Juntas Escolares (groups of parents and teachers who review policy and
investments at the school level) in the planning and review of educational investments.
(c) strengthen the ability of the municipalities to plan and carry out integrated investments in
infrastructure and educational processes; and
(d) develop new administrative mechanisms that lead to an effective and efficient working relation
among the Ministry of Education, Municipalities and the Social Investment Fund, thereby bringing
the Education Reform in line with the new responsibilities assigned under the Popular Participation
and Administrative Decentralization Laws. These laws were passed after the Education Reform
Law.
2. Project Components (See Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost schedule).
The core of the project is the first component which will finance Municipal Educational Development
Programs (PDEMs). The PDEMs are developed from a base of Nucleus Educational Projects (PENs),
proposals for school improvement prepared by parents, teachers and directors of school nucleus. A school
nucleus is a grouping of approximately nine schools. These subprojects must pass through a competitive
selection process at the municipal level and through a quality review at the department level. The process
is described in more detail in Annex 2, but the steps in this process can be summarized in the following
diagram:



Project Appraisal Document:                                                               Page A - 6
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
MECD assigns financial ceilings to municipalities
- based on a minimum for each municipality, plus
- increment based on poverty
|Parents, Teachers and Directors of nucleus prepare Nucleus Educational Projects (PENS)|
|ompetitions among PENs within each municipality   l
runicipalities send preliminary PDEMs to Departmental Committees
I
-Departmental Quality control review (MECD, FIS, professionals, Ed
Council of Native Population Groups)
-Comparison of PDEM with financial ceilings
r inalize PDEM at Municipal level
Infrastructure & equip             Pedagogical process investments executed
executed by Municipality           by municipalities
Assisted by Municipality          - assisted by FIS in some municipalities
- Assisted by FIS                 - assisted by MECD or subcontracted to
ther agencies in others
|onitoring and Evaluation - with feedback to municipalities and departmental
committees 
This process will be repeated in each of a total of four rounds of competition. The four rounds are included
so that there is an opportunity to learn and improve in the preparation and review of PDEM throughout the
project.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                  Page A - 7
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The second component, institutional strengthening, is included because it is clear that training and
improvements to the information base are needed at both the nucleus and municipal level for the process
described above to lead to PDEMs that improve educational outcomes. While the institutional strengthening
will begin as soon as the project is effective and preparatory activities related to the first competition will
begin in 1998, the final phase will be completed in time for the beginning of the school year in February
1999. To provide an immediate response to the pressing needs in the short run, the project will finance some
educational infrastructure projects that were identified and evaluated by the SIF but, because of a lack of
financing, had to be suspended. These SIF subprojects will be undertaken in nucleus in the process of
transformation to be consistent with the Education Reform.
The project includes a focused research/action component designed to identify some of the factors accounting
for significant gender disparities in some 50 municipalities and to finance promising interventions.
A summary of the five components, together with costs, is as follows:
Costs
Component                       Category            (US$M)           % of Total
A.    Municipal Educational Development               Physical              78.57           67.7%
Program.-  Comprising  the  funding   of
Educational Projects for Nucleus within the
Curricular     Transformation      Program
(Infrastructure  and   Pedagogical/Curricular)
selected through a municipal contest based on
evaluations and reviews at the departmental and
national levels subject to established co-funding
ceilings.
B. Institutional Strengthening.- Comprising Policy                          16.50           14.2%
training, technical assistance and equipment for: Institutions
Municipalities (6.0); Nucleus (5.0); and
Equipment for District Head Offices (1.0). Also
includes Inventory of Condition of Educational
Existing Infrastructure (1.0); Information Sub-
System (1.0); Monitoring and. Evaluation (1.8);
and Administrative Costs (0.9).              _
C FIS Investments.- Investments made before Physical                        15.00           12.9%
the first contest set forth, by the project, in
Nucleus  that  must  join  the  curricular
transformation process.
D. Rural Girls' Schooling.- Research-action Policy                           1.00            1.0%
component aimed at establishing a strategy
based on several alternatives that will allow for
a sustained increase of female enrollment and
permanence within the educational system in
rural areas.
E.   Studies  on  Secondary  and  Tertiary Studies                           0.50            0.4%
Education - carrying out of studies to evaluate
and make recommendations on the expansion of
the Education Reform Program to secondary
and tertiary education
PPF Refinancing                             Other                            1.72            1.5%
Unallocated                                                                  2.71            2.3%
Total                                                                      116.00         100,00%



Project Appraisal Document:                                                               Page A - 8
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
3. Benefits and Target Population
The project is expected to contribute to the following outcomes:
*  Greater efficiency within the educational system, with the expected reduction in drop-out and repetition
rates;
*  Improved quality of basic education; and
*  Promising approaches to the reduction in gender inequality in primary education in the 50 municipios
where the problem is most prevalent.
The project is also expected to generate the following improvements to the institutional environment in
education:
* Greater impact on the Education Reform's implementation through integrated interventions (infrastructure
and pedagogical/curricular/institutional components) establishing a relationship between the needs of each
educational unit and Nucleus and those identified at the municipal level;
* Greater stimulation for the municipalities to increase the funds allocated to the education sector;
* Promotion of local capabilities as a pillar to sustain the quality improvement process in the area of
education within the municipality's territory;
* Continual improvement in the quality of Municipal Educational Development Programs as a result of
feedback from monitoring and evaluation; and
* Enhanced social participation in municipal/school educational management
Finally, the project is expected to produce the following Social Benefits:
* Greater participation of the communities and social control organizations in the identification,
development and coverage of educational needs.
* A significant adjustment of the teaching and of learning process to the characteristics encountered at the
local level where these are developed.
Targeted Beneficiaries
The target beneficiaries are:
* Boys and girls from impoverished and deprived rural and urban marginal areas. The project expects to
finance approximately 500 Nucleus Educational Projects (PENs) that involve integrated infrastructure and
pedagogical process inputs and 900 PENs that involve only pedagogical process inputs. As there are
approximately 1800 Nucleus in the country, the project expects to provide the two types of PENs for
approximately 30% (450,000) and 50% (750,000) of the primary school age population.
* The beneficiaries are expected to be 70-75 percent indigenous. This estimate is based on the targeting of
project resources to poorer communities (which are heavily indigenous) and the high percentage of
indigenous population in the general population (55 percent).
* The rural girls component is expected to benefit approximately 16,000 girls in the 50 high priority
municipalities. It is expected that 80-90 percent of the girls would be indigenous.
* Teachers, Directors of Nucleus and District Directors within the educational system
311 municipalities in the country, with priority given to the poorest municipalities (lower IDH).



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 9
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
4. Institutional and Implementation Framework
Implementation Period: Five years (1998 through 2003)
Project Oversight (policy guidance)
The MECDNEIPS shall be responsible for the overseeing progress in the project and for establishing policy
guidelines. CONAPSO, as the Government entity responsible for overall social policy, may also adopt
specific policy guidelines to sustain the project's integrity and operational coordination with other social
agencies within the sector as well as with other actors.
Implementation of Component 1 - Municipal Educational Development Program
Prior to the final approval of PDEMs
*  Parents, teachers and directors of nucleus are responsible for preparation of PENs;
*  The Municipal Evaluation Committee is responsible for selecting, through a competitive process, the
PENs that go into the PDEM to be submitted to the Departmental Review Committee. The composition
of this committee is described in Annex 2;
*  The Departmental Evaluation Committee is responsible for reviewing the quality of the PDEM and
deciding which PENs within the PDEM meet minimum standards. They are also responsible for
checking that the total amount of funding sought lies within the established ceiling for the given
municipality;
*  Upon receiving the rejports of the Departmental Evaluation Committee, the Municipalities are responsible
for finalizing their PDEM
Execution of the PDEM
*  The municipalities will be responsible for executing their PDEMs;
*  To carry out their PDEMs, the municipalities will be assisted by the SIF and will enter into agreements
to that effect. This funds will be transferred through SIF to the municipalities to execute the PDEM;
Implementation of Component 2 - Institutional Strengthening
With the exception of the consultants to be contracted for the inventory of infrastructure (which will be
executed by the SIF), all other activities will be carried out or contracted by MECD-VEIPS.
Implementation of Component 3 - SIF Investments
The SIF subprojects in this component were selected under procedures in effect under the Bank-supported
SIF-II project (2532-BO) and reviewed by MECD. The Municipalities are responsible for executing these
subprojects and will enter into agreements with SIF to receive assistance in doing so. Project funds will be
transferred through SIF to the municipalities to execute these subprojects.
Implementation of Component 4 - Rural Girls Schooling Component
This component will be executed by MECD- VEIPS in coordination with the Vice-Ministry of Gender Issues.
Accounting Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 10
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The Government shall open two special accounts for the Project at Bolivia's Central Bank, one to be managed
by the MECDNVEIPS and the other for the infrastructure activities to be managed by the Social Investment
Fund. Requests for replenishment of the special account for MECD will follow the conditions set forth in a
subsidiary agreement between MHAC and MECD. Requests for replenishment of the special account for SIF
will follow the conditions set forth in a subsidiary agreement among MHAC, MECD and SIF.
The MECD/VEIPS and FIS will be responsible for the financial administration of their respective accounts,
and the reporting and monitoring activities shall be carried out in adherence to an auditing system and in
compliance with all the procedures acceptable to the AIF. Accounting records shall be kept for all expenses
and funding connected to the project, in adherence to AIF standards. Such institutions will also maintain
separate fiscal accounts for the operation of their activities. The project's accounting records shall be audited
on an annual basis, subject to international auditing standards, by independent auditors acceptable to the AIF.
The annual auditing report shall be submitted to AIF six months after the end of each fiscai year at the latest.
Monitoring and Evaluation Agreements
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the MECDNVEIPS will be responsible for assuming this task with the
support of a specific team in charge of coordinating the proj.ect's actions. The MECD will subcontract the
services of firms to carry out specialized surveys.
The key output indicators to be monitored include the average years of schooling for those leaving the
system, percentage of students with satisfactory academic performance and gender differences in educational
outcomes. A combination of physical input measures and client satisfaction with the processes used to
deliver the inputs will be employed to monitor progress.
As there will be four different competitions over the course of the project, there will be ample oportunity to
have the results of the monitoring and evaluation feedback into improvements in design. The information
will affect the training given to parets, teachers and directors of nucleus in the preparation of Nucleus
Educational Projects and the criteria used to judge the projects during the Departmental Quality Control
Review.
Block 2: Project Rationale
(CAS, to be presented to the Board, June 1998).
5. CAS Objective Supported by the Project
This project supports the following objectives set forth in the CAS currently being prepared for presentation
to the Board in June, 1998:
* Improve the efficiency and quality of basic social services, taking into account the cultural conditions of
the Bolivian population;
• Improve the access of the services to excluded parts of the population and define priorities for attention;
and
. Deepen decentralization;
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy (for more details see Annex 2)



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                  Page A - 11
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Main sector issues
Bolivia's educational situation is characterized by: a) a large stock of relatively uneducated workers (the
legacy of past neglect); b) a high percentage of students who continue to leave the educational system and
enter the labor market with inadequate quantity and quality of education (see Table I below); and c) many
young children entering the school system suffering from malnutrition and lack of stimulation in their early
years which inhibits their ability to learn.
Avg. years of schooling         Percent of those leaving the
completed of those leaving the  school system having completed
school system                   12 years
1975                            5.5                              11%
1985                            6.5                              17%
1995                            6.9                           - 20%
The deficiencies of the current system are in part caused by: a) inappropriate and inefficient management
of sector financing, including insufficient allocation of resources to primary education;  b) weak
administration structure of the system; c) exclusion of the primary beneficiaries-parents and communities-
from participating in the decision process and from the right to scrutinize the provision of educational
services; and d) other barriers to access to education attainment, as irrelevant core content, inadequate
provision of textbooks and instructional material, and deficient infrastructure, which primarily affects rural
populations.
Government Strategy
In the framework of the national dialogue organized by the present Government and the CAS discussions
held during November 1997, the Government has set forth a Plan Operativo de Acci6n, which has the
following targets for the next five years: a) to improve the quality education system increasing the coverage
of curricular transformation to all primary schools of the country ; b) to improve the education system
efficiency through decentralizing the system management achieving the municipal and schools levels; and c)
to improve the effectiveness of the education services increasing the resources allocation and the coverage
level; mainly in lower human development (IDH) municipalities.
To achieve these goals, the Government is devoting renewed effort to the Education Reform. The Education
Reform is an ambitious set of initiatives launched in 1994 designed to address some of the deficiencies in the
sector identified above. The intended changes include: a) greater participation of local communities in the
educational process; b) rationalization of sector financing; c) improved management of public universities,
including the use of cost recovery; d) incorporation of cultural diversity in the educational process; and e)
upgrading of existing primary and secondary education infrastructure.
After three years of implementation, the program has achieved some success, particularly in revamping the
curriculum and incorporating to a greater extent bilingual materials, institutional rationalization and
strengthening, training pedagogical advisors, and implementing a new national assessment system. However,
many of these advances have involved actions taken at the central level. There have, heretofore, been few
activities that have been initiated at the school level. This has limited the growth of a strong constituency for
the education reform at a grassroots level. The need to establish such a constituency is critical because the
major actions to improve the quality of teaching - requiring competency exams, having fewer better quality
teachers working full time for better pay - are just beginning and generate conflicts with entrenched interests.
In addition to the major effort with Education Reform, the Government is in the process of defining a policy
of cofinancing that redefines the role of the Social Investment Fund in relation to the municipalities and
sector ministries. In the past, the weakness of the line ministries together with the magnitude of the funds
under the direct control of the Social Investment Fund, resulted in the Social Investment Fund effectively



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 12
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
setting policy. With the expertise of the Social Investment Fund lying more in hardware than software, the
complementary software inputs were not always made. In the new strategy, the Government would like to
see the Ministry of Education assume the leadership role and for the investments in infrastructure and the
advances in the Educational Reform to proceed in a more integral fashion.
The Government is also interested in deepening the process of decentralization in education. In accordance
with the Popular Participation Law and Decentralization Laws, resources and decision-making authority is
transferred to Departments and Municipalities. The Popular Participation Laws also give local communities
and indigenous groups the legal right to identify and formulate investments and to participate in budget
formulation and control of the implementation. The two main concerns are: a) whether the municipalities
will devote sufficient resources to education; and b) whether the municipalities have sufficient capacity to
plan and execute investments. Given these concerns, the Government has developed this project which
provides a mechanism through which the central level can guide municipal and departmental expenditures
toward the priority education sector.
Finally, the Government has initiated a process to rationalize the higher education sector and improve quality
in secondary education. The World Bank is assisting in these efforts and projects to undertake these activities
have been tentatively scheduled in the CAS.
7. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The proposed project:
. Addresses the problem of inadequate resources devoted to education by financing PDEMs;
* Addresses the institutional weakness of the new actors (at the municipal and sector levels) through
training and technical assistance for the development of local capabilities;
. Addresses the absence of municipal and sectoral planning instruments through financing of information
systems and an inventory of the existing infrastructure and equipment;
* Addresses the lack of participation of the key actors (students, teachers, principals, parents, popular
participation entities, in Municipal Governments) in educational management through the elaboration of
Educational Projects; and
. Begins to address the lack of equity in girls' enrollment and educational achievements that prevails in
some municipalities through a research-action project which will investigate the causes for the
discrepancies and will pilot test interventions that would be expected to lead to a sustained increase in
enrollment and continuation of girls within the school system.
Strategic Choices
The first strategic option for project design was the choice between the integral approach that had been
adopted and the elaboration of a project with three isolated components to finance: (i) educational
infrastructure using FIS traditional mechanisms; (ii) institutional strengthening of the District Education Head
Offices; and (iii) educational quality and equity enhancement through the support for curricular development
and provision of equipment.
The design of isolated components was discarded based on the following arguments: (i) the new legal
dispositions and educational strategies require a change in the concept of public investment and a new
approach to municipal and public investment processes; (ii) the attainment of quality objectives within the
educational system depends on the simultaneous and integral concurrence of several factors (teachers,
curriculum, time and physical conditions), of which IEE is only a part; (iii) within the new social and
political structure in Bolivia these inputs are provided by different institutional and social actors; (iv) the new



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 13
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
inter-institutional and functional interdependence rests on a weak organizational structure; and (v) the
Reform's implementation process has revealed management problems that arise from centralized decision
making and the atomization of actions at the local level.
Once the integral approach is adopted, a second level of strategic decisions took into account the relationships
between: (i) the innovations considered by the project and institutional stability/capacity of the actors and
beneficiaries to appropriate them; (ii) the level of definition of the expected products, on one hand, and on the
other hand the proceduires under which such products should be attained; and (iii) the project's characteristics
foreseen in the design and the institutional capabilities for their implementation.
The project adopts as its strategic guidelines: (i) the introduction of those innovations that are necessary to
comply with a new legal framework and its norms at all levels, developing in a parallel manner the conditions
for institutional stability and local appropriation capabilities; (ii) contribute through the project's expected
products, to the attainment of the global goals set by the Educational Reform, taking as a basis the
acknowledgment of social, culture, economic and institutional diversity of the Municipal Governments; and
(iii) capitalize on institutional experiences for the implementation of the components, introducing
coordination, follow up and control modalities to attain a higher degree of effectiveness for the project.
8. Projects Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
Alternatives that were Considered                    Reasons for Rejection
Addressing the infrastructure component under the * Not cost effective and difficult to articulate with
more traditional and simpler approach of meeting the    the Educational Reform.
scattered  demands  of the  municipalities  and *  It hinders and limits municipal educational
communities.                                      management.
*  Short term  vision and noncompliance with the
Law (Art. 49 of the Educational Reform Law)
. Does not allow  for an integral treatment of
Coverage,   Quality   and   Institutional/local
_________________________________________    Strengthening variables.
Adjusting the Project to current mechanisms and *  It underscores the dispersion of interventions
procedures for the funding of school infrastructure *  Current procedures are slow and very centralized.
which are already familiar to the municipalities.  * Investments  and   program   schedules  are
implemented on an annual basis and do not
promote medium and long term planning.
Restrict the strengthening of Municipal Governments *  It contradicts the principles of the Popular
to the administrative aspects within the framework of    Participation Law  and the objectives of the
the transfer of ownership of school infrastructure to    Educational Reform.
the Municipal Governments.
Consider  as  separate  items  the  educational * It increases the "time periods" and contributes to
infrastructure, institutional strengthening and quality   the dispersion of the supply and the demand.
improvement components.                        * Reinforces the trend to extend coverage without
quality assurance or joint management at the local
level
Consider that the efforts that were carried out to * Reinforces the approach according to which there
extend educational coverage are sufficient to ensure    are equal opportunities and conditions for boys
girls enrollment and permanence in school and    and girls in and outside the schools;
allowing for the elimination of gender discrimination. .  Discrimination factors failed to be considered, and
these are still in effect within the teaching and
learning processes.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A- 14
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
9. Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Sector Issue                         Project                    Latest Form 590
Rating
AIF - Financed and co-financed                                         IP       DO
Projects
Exclusion of beneficiaries from  Education Reform Project (Ongoing: Credit # S   S
key decisions in education sector; 2650-BO, $US40 million; IDB  Financing
weak    sector    management; $US80 million; KFW: $US9 million; GTZ:
inefficiencies in sector financing; $US4.5  million; Holland  $US9  million;
and  problems  of access  and SIDA: $US 16 million; OPEC: $US 1 million.
quality.
Weak  social infrastructure and FIS Project I and II; Closed, Credit 2127-BO, FIS I
basic education, health, sanitation $US20 million (FIS II, Continued, Credit S   S
and drinking water services.   2532-BO, $US40 million)  IDB Financing
$US60 million; Switzerland: $US5m.; KFW:
$US25m.; Holland: $US2m.; OPEC: $US5m.;
SIDA: $US6.3m.; Denmark: $US 11.3m.; FIS II
Canada: $US7.4m.                        S         S
Low coverage and quality of pre- Integrated   Child   Development  Project S     S
school education.             (Continued, Credit 253 1-BO; $US50.7m.
Insufficient bilingual and inter- Pro-Guarani: UNICEF ($US 2.5m.)
cultural education             Basic Bilingual Education: GTZ ($US 4.4m.)
Basic Education for Improvement, Andean
Region: Canada ($USO.3m.)
Bilingual  and  Inter-cultural  Education:
Denmark ($USlm.)
Weak directive capacity and low  Support to  Educational Reform: France
quality of the educational system   ($USO.lm.)
Education: UNICEF ($US14m.)
Information, Education and Communication:
UNFPA ($USlm.)
Deficient nutrition  of primary School Breakfast Program: USAID ($US5m.)
school children.              I_I
10. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design
Lessons Learned                               Project Response
AIF experiences in Bolivia, and the large number of The municipalities were consulted and visits were
similar projects worldwide, show that the project's made as part of the project preparation policies.
appropriation by the borrower is important for a AIF monitoring will be channeled through the
successful implementation of the same         LCSHD, Social Sector Unit.
Experience has shown that Educational Reforms do The  proposed  project  capitalizes  on  these
not yield automatic results or benefits, but are part of experiences, incorporating training and technical
a long term project which requires, besides other assistance to its design for decentralization as the core
things: a commitment and participation of all levels of the long term actions.
involved, an implementation strategy; well defined
procedures and responsibilities; training and technical
assistance at all levels and adequate financial and



Project Appraisal Docurnent:                                                           Page A - 15
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
human resources.
The FIS has proven its efficiency as a specialized The MECDNEIPS shall enter into agreements with
institution in the area of financial administration and the FIS, so it assumes responsibility for the execution
the execution of infrastructure in coordination with of infrastructure, based on the demands established in
the local authorities, following the norms that stem  the PDEMs.
out of the sectors.
EDUCO's experience in El Salvador attributes its The project consolidates the demands of the Nucleus
success to the integration of the school population expressed in the PENs and the demands of the
demands and the territorial demands as well as the municipal level in  the  Municipal Educational
active participation of all the strategic local actors Development Programs.
involved in the educational process.
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
The Bolivian Government has stated its commitment to the project and has manifest its support for Education
Reform and the activities proposed in this project in several ways:
* The Government has persisted in its support for the difficult actions in Education Reform that threaten
entrenched interests despite almost daily protests that have blocked major roads and caused classes to be
suspended;
. The Government is committed to attaining the education targets established within the framework of the
HIPC initiatives. These include indicators linked to increased public expenditures in primary and
secondary education as a percentage of total expenditures in the education sector up to 68% by the year
2000, increased primary education coverage in the municipalities with low human development indices of
62% to 72% until the year 2002.
12. Value Added and Bank Support
* The project reflects the lessons of experience contained in the HD Network Knowledge Management
System and incorporates the recommendations made by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) concerning
project design.
* The participation of the SSU of the Resident Mission in the preparation of the project has ensured that the
international lessons have been adapted to the Bolivian context.
* The AIF, and the co-financing and bilateral cooperation agencies are familiar with the topics presented in
the Educational Reform Program (through the Supervision Missions carried out during the 1994-1997
period).
* The Training, Technical Assistance, Monitoring, Evaluation and Control proposal involves the Bank's
experiences and presents a new and integral approach to ensure that the actions adopted fit within the
established objectives and ideals.
The lessons concerning international experiences give the Bank a comparative advantage to advise the
government throughout the project implementation process.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 16
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments
13. Economic Assessment  [X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: ERR=   - Cost                ElOther
(see Annex 4)                   15% (Mean)                       Effectiveness      [Specify]
Analysis:
The internal rate of return for this project was calculated at 15 percent. This was based on a consideration of
three main sources of economic benefits:
a) With expected decreases in the drop-out rates, the number of years completed will increase, thereby
increasing earnings;
b) With expected improvements in the quality of primary education, the expected returns to a
given year of schooling will increase; and
c) With expected decreases in the repetition rates, less time spent in school will be required to
achieve a completed grade level, thereby reducing the opportunity cost of school
Quantitatively, the major source of the expected benefits arises from the effect of improvements in quality on
expected earnings, followed by the effect of the increase in years completed and the lower opportunity costs.
While the effect of the quality improvement is small for each student, the benefit accrues to a large number of
students.
There are three main costs considered:
a) The direct costs of the project;
b) The maintenance costs that are required after the project ends for the infrastructure and equipment
financed under the project; and
c) The incremental costs associated with having children stay in school instead of dropping out.
Various simulations were done to judge the sensitivity of the calculations to different assumptions. In 80
percent of the 1000 simulations considered, the internal rate of return was more than 1 1 percent.
14. Financial Assessment
Financial management by MECD and FIS, including accounting and auditing capacity has been reviewed and
found satisfactory. The ongoing projects implemented by MECD (Educational Reform, Cr. 2650-BO) and
FIS (Cr. 253 1-BO) are in full compliance with audits covenants; their existing standards and formats will be
used in the proposed project. Under the project, both MECD and FIS will maintain records and separate
accounts adequate to reflect resources and expenditures with respect to the project; these records and
accounts, including the Special Accounts, will be audited each Fiscal Year by independent auditors and
according to TORs acceptable to the Association; reports of these audits will be submitted to the Association
within six months after the end of each fiscal year. All records, including contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents that reflect the expenditures made with respect to withdrawals from the Credit
Account, will be kept for at least one year after the last withdrawal from the Credit Account and will be open
to examination by the Association's representatives.
While the financial management systems have been reviewed and judged to be adequate, some further
refinements will be carried out under the project.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                    Page A - 17
Country: BOLIVIA                                               Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
15. Technical Assessment
The project design incorporates elements which, based on worldwide and Bank experience, are considered to
contribute to successful outcomes. These include:
*   Educational investmnents designed in a participatory manner at the local level;
*   Integration in investment planning between infrastructure and other educational inputs;
*   An element of competition;
*   Assigning a normative and quality control role to the Ministry of Education, but not one of execution;
.   Substantial monitoring and information and feedback;
*   Technical assistance and training for key actors that currently lack experience;
*   Substantial prior work identifying prototypical designs for infrastructure and equipment with good
estimates of costs (a census of the state of infrastructure is also contemplated within the project);
*   Pedagogical process improvements to be undertaken in close coordination with improvements being
undertaken as part of the larger Education Reform effort.
Based on these elements, the appraisal team considered that the technical design of the project would lead to
a high probability of success.
16. Institutional Assessment
Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports: The Ministry of Education Culture and Sports (MECD), as the
institution that has responsibilities to define policies and strategies in the sector, is the logical home for this
project. The Ministry has already demonstrated substantial initiative in promoting key activities of the
Education Reform. The high-level management team has substantial experience in design of pedagogical
improvements, appropriate to the Bolivian setting. Several of the staff had participated in the original design
of the Educational Reform. Virtually all have some experience with the implementation.
The Ministry has embarked on several efforts to strengthen its institution. It has contracted an international
consulting firm to conduct a review of its organization, strengths and weaknesses. The reinforcement of the
local educational levels, within the Reform and the consolidation of their administration within the formal
structure of the MECDNVEIPS is one of the Government's priorities. As part of the project, the research,
monitoring and evaluation areas will be reinforced.
Because in Bolivia there is always the possibility of change in personnel, the procedures to be followed in the
training activities and the review of PDEMs will be collected in easy-to-use computerized Operational
Manuals.
FIS: The Social Investment Fund will assist all municipalities involved in the project in carrying out
infrastructure investments related to the PENs and will act as executing agency to transfer project funds to the
municipalities, under the conditions set forth in the subsidiary agreement among the Ministry of Finance,
MECD and FIS.
The FIS will contribute with its experience in the resources administration and will provide services for
infrastructure and equipment to schools. Taking into account the need to strengthen the school management
at the local level, FIS will contribute with its installed capacity at the regional level, with timely provision of
the respective services. Because of FIS structure, its established that FIS is the institution that could adapt
more easily to the new legal and institutional framework in the country.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A- 18
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Municipalities: The municipalities have the responsibility to prepare their PDEMs (based on proposals from
the School Nucleus) and to carry out the implementation. The responsibility for implementation is given to
the municipalities by law.   However, with a few exceptions (in the principal cities), most of the
municipalities have not had much experience in planning and carrying out investments. For this reason, the
project includes training and technical assistance in the preparation of the PDEMs and technical assistance in
execution.
The weaknesses in the municipalities is well-recognized by the Government and other donors and tnere are
other initiatives outside of those in this project that are intended to strengthen management. The Vice
Ministry for Popular Participation is a major actor in such efforts and the project will coordinate with that
institution.
17. Social Assessment
Given that such a high percentage of the beneficiaries are expected to be indigenous (70-75 percent), the
issues of concern in OD 4.20 are addressed by the project itself and not with a separate indigenous people's
development plan.
In contrast to many developing countries, Bolivia has made a conscious effort to involve civil society in the
planning and oversight of investments. The passage of the Popular Participation Law was a landmark event
in Bolivia and has attracted world-wide attention. This project has tried to incorporate the formal entities of
Popular Participation (as well as parents and teachers) into the preparation, review and evaluation of the
Municipal Educational Development Programs.
Preparation of PENs
The PENs will be prepared in a participatory manner by parents, teachers and directors of school nucleus.
The group preparing the PENs is expected to include (but not be limited to) the School Boards, the formal
group of parents and teachers who review policy and investments at the school level. At the local level it is
expected that in some communities all of the people involved in preparing the proposal would be
indigenous. The directors of nucleus in such areas are required to speak Aymara, Quechua or Guarani as the
case may be. In preparing their educational projects, parents and teachers will be able to make use of the
bilingual modules and teaching materials that have been prepared as part of the Education Reform.
Review of PDEMs
The departmental quality review committee will include independent professionals (not associated with the
Government) and Educational Councils of Native Population Groups, in addition to FIS, MECD-VEIPS.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Since the municipalities are responsible for the execution of their PDEMs, the Comites de Vigilancia, under
the Popular Participation Law, have the responsibility to oversee the manner in which the PDEMs were
prepared and carried out.
To ensure that any problems with implementation and participation are brought to the attention of MECD-
VEIP and the financiers, the monitoring and evaluation plan calls for client satisfaction surveys of: a) juntas
escolares at the nucleo level and; b) comites de vigilancia at the municipal level. The results of these
surveys will be discussed during the annual reviews of the project. As there will be four rounds of
competition, there should be opportunities to correct deficiencies.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                 Page A - 19
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
18. Environmental Assessment          Environmental category     |  }   A                { }   B   {x}  C
The project is included within category C. No environmental risks are foreseen. All the buildings must
comply with national and sectoral construction standards, as well as with the regulations to the Environmental
Law. Given that the existing schools will be rebuilt or refurbished, or alternatively, the existing schools that
are severely damaged will be replaced with new facilities, the flow of people to new communities has not
been foreseen. All the projects will include measures for waste disposal and lavatory supplies in adherence to
national standards adopted by the service networks in each location.
Identification
19. Participatory Approach            Preparation           Implementation           Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups            IS                 IS, CON, COL          IS, CON, COL
Intermediary NGOs                         IS                    IS, COL                COL
Academic institutions                                           IS, COL
Local government                          IS                  CON, COL             IS, CON, COL
Other donors                        IS, CON, COL                IS, COL               IS, CON
IS=lnformation Sharing; CON=Consultation; COL=Collaboration
20. Sustainability
Sustainability of the investments financed under the project
The municipalities are responsible for the maintenance of the infrastructure and equipment financed as part of
the PDEM. The cost of this is estimated at $0.23 million for the first year of the project, rising progressively
until it reaches $1.15 million for the last year and for years following the project. This amount is considered
feasible for the municipalities to cover, given that it represents approximately 2 percent of the total
expenditures of municipalities in education in 1996.
In addition to the maintenance costs, there are some incremental costs associated with having more students
in school with the expected decrease in drop out rates. These range from less than US$ 10,000 in the first
year, but rise to US$ 1.2 million by 2015. Under current institutional arrangements, these costs would be
shared between the municipalities (infrastructure, equipment and materials) and the central government
(which is responsible for paying salaries). The salary bill for primary teachers is US$ 196 million. Thus, the
additional costs represent a small fraction of the total costs.
Sustainability of the process of competitive grants
In the last year of the project, a total of $US 11.3 million is expected to be distributed to municipalities
through the mechanism of competitive grants. Roughly US$ 1.5 million is expected to be needed to finance
the monitoring and evaluation, training and administrative costs associated with distributing funds in this
way. Thus, the process could be considered sustainable if the government could guarantee an annual flow of
resources equivalent to this amount.
Of the US$ 11.3 million, 30 percent or US$3.4 million would consist of counterpart funds from the
municipalities. This is 6 percent of their 1996 expenditure. And the participation of the municipalities is
voluntary. They can choose to spend the US$3.4 million as they wish or agree to follow the requirements of
entering into the competition for additional funds and possibly leveraging their funds to finance more
activities. The total sum to be distributed (US$ 11.3 million) represents a significant portion (20 %) of total
expenditures on education. Any less and the municipalities may not find it worthwhile to participate.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                   Page A - 20
Country: BOLIVIA                                              Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The remaining US$ 9.4 million, which represents approximately 4 percent of the annual salary bill for
primary teachers, would have to come from the central or departmental government.
It is not simply a question of the availability of funds, but also the legal restrictions on the use of funds. The
competitive grant process requires that there is an amount used to finance PDEM that is under the control of
the Ministry of Education. Using the funds allocated to the departments may make the most sense. The
departmental government receives resources which are expected to be used for education, but absent the type
of quality control and planning imposed by the competitive grant proposal, the departmental funds could be
handed out without using technical criteria.
21. Critical Risks
Risk                          Risk Rating               Risk Minimization Measure
The lack of active participation on Moderate                       (i) PDEMs are elaborated based on
the part of the faculty, students,                                the   PEN.   This  requirement
parents,   popular   participation                                 strengthens the coordination among
bodies      and       Municipal                                    the relevant actors.
Governments, limit the progress of                                 (ii) The PEN  are the result of
the Reformn                                                        consensus based demands of all the
Educational Units in a Nucleus
The Municipal Governments do Low                                   The project requires the PDEMs to
not    comply    with    their                                     be reflected in the municipal PAOS
commitments to allocate funds for                                  for funding.
scheduled investments
Lack  of  decentralization  and Moderate                           The project's fundamental pillar
sufficient articulation of actions at                              rests on  training  and  technical
the local and national levels.                                     assistance for the actors in the
sector, the Municipal Government
and  the  popular  participation
bodies, for the elaboration and
participation in the development of
Educational Projects.
The Municipal Governments do Moderate                              Through   the   Contest  Funds
not increase their expenditures in                                 modality, the  project promotes
the education sector.                                             incentives and motivation for the
municipalities with the aim of
raising   the   level   of  their
expenditures  in  the  education
sector.
Conflicts between SIF and MECD  Moderate                           Differences in opinion and interest
could  interfere  with  effective                                  were  discussed  openly  during
implementation.                                                    preparation.   Agreements  were
reached and the conditions that will
guide working relations will be set
forth explicitly in draft subsidiary
________________ _________________  _________________________agreem ents.
The promotion of greater access Moderate                           The project includes a component
possibilities and equity within the                                aimed at research-action which will
educational process.                                               allow  for the implementation of
future strategies and increase the



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 21
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
girls  permanence  within  the
educational system
Overall Project Risk Rating    Moderate
22. Possible Controversial Aspects
* Competitive Grant Mechanism: the need to prepare PDEM to have access to the project's resources may
be viewed as an unnecessary requirement by some Municipal Governments accustomed to making
investments on demand, be it for political reasons or to gain more supporters and enhance their credibility
at the community level. (Given that the Educational Reform Law requires the Municipal Governments to
invest in adherence to educational plans, the project will contribute to the reinforcement of the law; the
Municipal Governments that are not willing to execute PDEMs will be clearly beyond the law and may
not reap any benefits from project funds).
* Training in the areas of municipal/school educational management and System Decentralization: given the
loss of authority and power that this implies for the central level, the resistance of some sectors within the
administration of the education sector is possible, based on the argument that these processes constitute a
hasty transfer of functions and responsibilities to the strategic actors in the education sector that are not
adequately prepared to assume them. The authorities of the MECD are fully engaged in the
decentralization process and the project will provide intensive training and technical assistance to
contribute to the development of institutional capabilities at the local level.
Block 4: Main Conditions of Credit
23. Effectiveness Conditions (Effectiveness and First Disbursement)
Effectiveness:
a) Subscription of Subsidiary Agreement between the MHAC, MECD and FIS
for transfer of project funds
Conditions of Disbursement for Component I (PDEM):
a) Operational manuals for development of PENs acceptable to Bank.
b) Creation of Municipal and Departmental Evaluation Committees.
c) Employment of additional staff in project unit.
Other assurances:
a) MECD and FIS will sign participation agreements with Municipalities for the
execution of Component 1.
b) MECD will prepare and send to the Bank semi-annual reports on June 30 and
December 30 of every year.
c) MECD will present by December 31 of each year an annual operating plan for the
project.
d) The Government and Bank will hold annual reviews by June 30 each year.



Project Appraisal Document: ANNEXES                                                          Page A - 22
Country: BOLIVIA                                              Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
24. Other Conditions
None.
Block 5: Conformity with Bank Policies
{ X } This project complies will all applicable bank policies.
Newman                                      Sus
Task Manager                                     Acting Director:



Project Appraisal Document:                                                             Page A - 23
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and              Critical
Supervision         Assumptions/Risks
CAS Objective                                                               (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Address long-term human   * Extent to which children                        * Economic, social and
capital development.       enter the education system                          political stability exists.
ready and able to learn.
Prevalence of severe
malnutrition of children under  National System of  * Commitment and
5                           Health Indicators,        support is maintained
Ministry of Health       for the
1998   2000    2003                                   institutionalization of
9.4%    8.5%    6.0%                                  RE at all levels of
society
* Quantity and quality of
education of those leaving
the educational system
Average years of schooling for Annual Statistics,
those leaving the system    MECD
1998   2000   2003
6.9     7.2     8.0
National Survey of
Percentage of students with  Evaluation of Quality
satisfactory academic       of Education
achievement (3rd grade)     (SIMECAL)
1998   2000   2003
20%    25%    30%
Percentage of students with  National Survey of
satisfactory academic       Evaluation of Quality
achievement (8'h grade)     of Education
(SIMECAL)
1998   2000    2003
TBD Base+5% Base+10%
* Human Capital of those
already in labor force
Absolute number of functional
illiterates in population 15 and
above
1998       2000
20%         15%             Census



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 24
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Project Development                                                         (Development Objectives
Objective                                                                  to CAS Objective)
Improve quality and equity  *  Average years of      Annual Review of      * The Regulatory,
of educational service      schooling for those      Statistics for those     Coordination and
according to the criteria   leaving the system in    school nucleus           Operating levels of
and goals established in the  areas supported by the  supported under the     MECD are
Educational Reform.         project.                 project (MECD). The      consolidated. The RE
control group will be    components
1998   2000   2003          formed from similar      implemented in a
TBD  Control   Control      school nucleus.          synchronized manner,
Group* 1.05 Group* 1I.10                         within the terms
defined in PDEMs and
Percentage of students  Baseline and follow-up   PENs.
with satisfactory academic  surveys of SIMECAL
achievement (3rd grade)    instrument applied to    . GMs, DDIEs,
students in school       School/Nucleus
1998   2000   2003          nucleus supported        Councils are active part
TBD  CG* 1.05 CG* 1.10      under the project and    of training activities
for a control group.     and preparation, review
and implementation of
* Gender differences in     Annual Review of         the municipal/school
average years of schooling   Statistics (MECD) for  management.
for those leaving the    municipalities targeted
system in 50 highest     for this component of
priority municipalities  the project.
1998   2000    2003
TBD Base*.9 Base*.8
Project Outputs          Between 1998 and 2003:                            (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
1. The quality          * Number of Nucleus          * Administrative      * Municipality and
pedagogical/curricular and  Educational Projects       records                Popular Participation
of school infrastructure   financed under project                             agencies participate
has been improved to       (integrated infra &                                actively in the
respond to the             pedagogical process and                           implementation,
municipalities demands     pedagogical process only)                          monitoring and review
within the framework of                                                       of RE Process.
strengthened educational    1998    2000   2003
management.              NA       600      1500                            * Timely availability of
resources from local
* Percent of Nucleus        * Field survey by       counterparts.
Educational Projects judged    technical experts of a
of acceptable quality in    sample of Nucleus
field visits                Educational Projects
supported under the
1998    2000    2003          project.
NA      80%      85%
* Percent of Juntas Escolares   * Client satisfaction
who consider the            survey of a sample



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 25
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
preparation of Nucleus       of juntas escolares in
Educational Projects to be a  schools receiving
success                     support for their
Nucleus Educational
1998    2000   2003            Project
NA        80%     85%
* Client satisfaction
* Percent of Juntas Escolares  survey of a sample
who are satisfied with the   of juntas escolares
process leading to selection  who received
of the Nucleus Educational  support and a sample
Projects                    which participated in
the process but did
1998     2000     2003         not receive support.
NA        60%       70%
. Percent of Comites de     * Client satisfaction
Vigilencia who consider      survey of Comites de
their PDEM to be             Vigilencia
successfully prepared and
implemented.
1998     2000    2003
NA        80%      85%
* Percent of Comites de     * Client satisfaction
Vigilencia satisfied with the  survey of Comites
process used to support      de Vigilencia
PDEM
1998     2000    2003
NA        70%      80%
Parents, teachers and    . School Nucleus receiving    * Project records
nucleo directors are able to    training for parents,
prepare effectively their  teachers and nucleus
Nucleo Educational          directors
Projects and Municipal
Governments have the      1998     2000    2003
information, instruments    NA      700     1400
and methods to plan and                               * Client satisfaction
implement their Municipal  . Percent of juntas escolares  survey of juntas
Educational Development     satisfied with training and  escolares
Plans                       assistance received in the
preparation of their Nucleus
Educational Projects
1998     2000    2003
NA        70%      80%
* Project records
* Number of Municipalities
receiving training and
technical assistance in the



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 26
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
preparation and
implementation of their
PDEMs
1998    2000      2003
NA       200      311       * Client satisfaction
survey of Comites de
* Percent of Comites de       Vigilencia
Vigilencia satisfied with the
training and technical
assistance received in the
preparation and
implementation of the
PDEMs
1998    2000      2003
NA       70%      80%
* Number of municipalities    Census of Educational
with adequate information   Infrastructure
on the state of their
educational infrastructure
1998    2000      2003
NA       200      311
. Number of District        . Project records
Directors of Education
provided transport and
communications
equipment.
1998     2000    2003
NA        150     245
Infrastructure investments   * Percent of SIF subprojects   * SIF administrative
of SIF component are fully    completed                 records
operational and judged
satisfactory             1998     2000
NA        100%
. Percent of SIF subprojects   * Review by MECD
fully operational and judged  Monitoring and
of acceptable quality       Evaluation
Department
1998     2000    2003
NA       95%      95%
Diagnosis of factors     * Percent of studies        * Project records and
affecting rural girls' school    completed              availability of final
participation completed                                 study reports
and interventions in high    1998  2000
priority municipalities  NA        100%
successfully implemented.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                       Page A - 27
Country: BOLIVIA                                                 Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
* Quantitative and qualitative   *  General evaluation    *  Support by local
information from the 50         of the pilot             entities( Municipal
Municipalities that were        experience and           Governments, Popular
prioritized, systematized       definition of            Participation Bodies
and collected.                  strategies for           and other entities that
* Awareness raising and            generalized              depend from this
training materials              application.             sector).
distributed to target                                 *  Intersectoral
populations.                 *  Terms of reference       coordination among
* 2500 mothers an fathers          and Invitation to        the Educational
participating in the            Institutions or          Reform Units.
awareness raising effort        independent
during the first two years of   consultants
the project.                    responsible for
* 400 faculty members              awareness raising
participating in training       and training at the
sessions during the first two   municipal level.
years of the project.
Studies of Secondary and    * Percent of studies            .  Project records and
Tertiary Education             completed                       availability of final
reports
1998       1999
NA         100%
Project Components          Project Inputs
Municipal Educational       * US$ 78.6 M.                   *  Quarterly progress
Development program                                            reports and monthly
disbursement reports
Institutional Strengthening                                 *  Quarterly progress
*  Training at nucleus level   *  US$ 5.3 M                    reports and monthly
*  Training at municipality                                    disbursement reports
level                    *  US$ 6.3 M
* Inventory of school
infrastructure           *  US$0.6 M
* Information subsystems
*  Goods for District       *  US$0.6 M
Directors of Education   *  US$1.0 M
* Monitoring and
Information              *  US$1.8 M
* Administrative costs
*  US$ .OM
SIF subprojects             * US $15 M                      *  Quarterly progress
reports and monthly
disbursement reports
Rural Girls Schooling       a US $1.0 M                     *  Quarterly progress
reports and monthly
disbursement reports
Secondary and Tertiary      * US$ 0.5 m                     *  Interim and final
Education Studies                         _                    products of studies



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 28
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
ANNEX 2
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. MUNICIPAL EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (PDEM)
Justification
The actions developed until now within the framework of the Educational Reform Project, include institutional
transformation as well as pedagogical and curricular transformations. Such transformations in turn comprise the different
structural levels of the Educational System (national, departmental and local) defining the rural Educational Nucleus or urban
Networks as the basic planning, implementation, follow up and evaluation units of the Educational Reform.
On the other hand, the Popular Participation Law and the Administrative Decentralization Law stress the strategic role played
by the Municipal Governments as well as the popular participation bodies in the identification, execution and systematic
evaluation of actions aimed at promoting greater development at the local level, which besides responding to national
policies, take into consideration the specific needs of each municipality within the different development areas.
Likewise, there are barriers referred to the school decentralization process at municipal and school levels, because lack of
effective participation of parents, communities, school principals, etc., that would improve the institutional capacity of the
system, but also its responsiveness to the requirements of the community. In this framework, the attention to the school
infrastructure and equipment deficiencies, also constitutes a priority that has to be envisioned as a systematic and integrated
issue to be undertaken inside the process of institutional transformation.
Within this context, one of the necessary aspects to approach is the new implementation fashion of the school management,
which has to emphasize the following aspects to overcome the actual limitations in the framework of the school management:
- core management of the beneficiaries
- effective participation of the community members, involved in the school management
(sector, municipal governments, school boards, etc.)
- working group
- cooperation and negotiations, to raise the effectiveness and reciprocal benefits
- permanent improvement process
- effective, clearly and timely communication
- outputs responsibility
As regards the institutional, pedagogical and curricular transformations it is observed that in spite of having a new structure
that underscores the role played by the different local actors (Municipal Governments, Popular Participation Bodies, District
Head Offices, Nucleus Head Offices and Educational Units, Faculty) and after having transferred the authority to allow said
actors to apply the pedagogical and curricular policies and orientation defined at the national level and to adjust them to
specific contexts, it is necessary to provide punctual and continuous support to enable the implementation of said
transformations.
The above, establishes the need to design new mechanisms and instruments to channel the support of the Central Government
toward the Municipalities, taking into consideration integral, equity, transparency, agility and cost reduction criteria, both as
regards the administration as well as the investments. The mechanisms for the allocation of resources, in particular, must
reconcile the national objectives of the Educational Reform and municipal autonomy as well as the characteristics of the new
norms framework.
Although we may identify as a central objective of the Contest Funds Modality the allocation of resources to Municipal
Governments and Educational Nucleus integrated to the Curriculum Transformation Program, the ultimate goal is to generate
a new logic for Municipal and School Educational Management that grants a higher priority to long term planning,
management autonomy and investment sustainability thus avoiding the traditional response to scattered demands.
This is what makes the difference between the Contest Funds Modality and other modalities used for the allocation of
resources, because besides taking into consideration positive discrimination criteria for the poorer municipalities and ceilings



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 29
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
for each Municipality, it sets priorities for integral and long term planning to be reflected in the Municipal Educational
Development Programs (PDEMs) and in the Educational Projects for Nucleus which will allow the municipalities to have
access to greater or lesser resources, according to the technical quality of their bids.
Objectives
The project aims to contribute improving coverage education targets at primary level and learning skills, through the
provision of educational process inputs combined with infrastructure aspects, as an integral fashion. The proposal includes
the participation of the sector Ministry, the Social Investment Fund and the municipalities, in the framework of the Popular
Participation Law and decentralization processes. Also, the project intends to reach major stability of the students in the
system within the framework of educational and learning processes.
Support the decentralization process promoting a new school management fashion at municipal and school levels, through
training and technical assistance, which results should be reflected in the elaboration, implementation, follow-up and
evaluation of educational nucleus projects- as instrument of the educational school management- and educational
development programs-as instrument of municipal education management.
To provide financial support to Municipal Governments and nucleus integrated to Curriculum Transformation Program,
throughout all the country with the aim of improving the quality of the educational infrastructure, school equipment and the
teaching and learning processes, based on the elaboration of Municipal Educational Development Programs (PDEMs) that
meet the needs identified by each municipality taking into consideration the Educational Projects for Nucleus which are
currently part of the Curriculum Transformation Program.
To apply the modality of Contest Funds for the allocation of national resources destined to improve the quality of education
both in pedagogical and curricular terms as well as the school's infrastructure and equipment, taking into consideration
equity, integral, sustainability and effort related criteria on the part of the Municipal Governments and Educational Nucleus
to institutionalize and consolidate the Educational Reform.
Besides these general objectives, we can mention some specific objectives we intend to attain through the implementation of
Municipal Educational Development Programs which establish a relationship between this component and the Strengthening
of Municipal and School Educational Management component.
* To foster the development of local capabilities as a pillar to sustain the continuous Educational quality improvement
process within its territorial scope.
* To implement and complennent the authority assigned to the Municipal Governments by virtue of the Educational Reform
Law as regards the school infrastructure and equipment, rescuing the concept of Municipal Educational Management.
* To establish coherent a relationship between the educational needs identified at the municipal level and those
corresponding to each Educational Unit and Nucleus, to be reflected in the Educational Projects for Nucleus;
* To foster and implement the relationships that should exist among the different local actors: Municipal Governments,
Educational District Head Offices, Surveillance Committees, Nucleus and School Councils, Directors of Educational
Nucleus and Units, Faculty, Students.
* To promote an integral, long term educational planning, that responds to contexts and specified needs based on complete
and updated information (National/Municipal Inventory, National/Municipal Educational Information Systems), based on
a rational distribution and management of the scarce resources available (Contest Funds Modality).
* To orient the training and technical assistance actions towards the development and support of different local entities.
* To integrate program of infrastructure into the overall planning of the project activities..
Description
The school management would be understood as an integral process that requires:
a) the definition of PDEMs and PENs
b) the definition of a strategy that guarantee its elaboration and implementation
c) the capacity to make adequate decisions during the process execution



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 30
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
This management fashion will allow:
a) to intervene over the complete educational development
b) to strengthen pedagogical and educational intentionality
c) to incorporate educational actors as protagonists for change
d) to build quality processes in order to achieve the expected results
The preparation of PDEMs, as an strategic planning instrument, will allow to the local level, to overrun to the event and
assume a warning attitude, avoiding in this sense extemporaneous or erroneous decisions.
The Municipal Educational Development Programs will be elaborated taking as their main input the Educational Projects
submitted by the Nucleus which are currently part of the Curriculum Transformation Program and shall include actions aimed
at improving the quality of the teaching and learning process as well as requirements linked to the school's infrastructure and
equipment.
Finally, taking into account that the PDEM's should reflect a set of actions performed on a municipal level to contribute to
the education quality improvement, that will also include the infrastructure foresee and corrective financing, and inputs for
schools; expenses that will be covered directly with municipal local resources.
The Project allocation resources will be carried out based on the organization of four municipal contests - one per year . The
first contest will be a pilot experience, will allow validate various aspects of this experience .
More specifically, the Educational Projects for Nucleus and the PDEMs in general will be evaluated successively at the
municipal and departmental level.
Acknowledging that the Project introduces a new logic which implies a learning process for the different entities - which
shall necessarily require adjustments to the process in order to attain a certain level of effectiveness, efficiency and an
increasingly greater impact - and taking into consideration the available resources, the need for integral and sustained training
and technical assistance has been established for Municipal Governments, Popular Participation Bodies and local entities that
depend from the MECD-VEIPS; whose main characteristics are described in the following section (B. Strengthening of
Municipal/School Educational Management.)
Following are tentative schemes of the participation in the contests, according to the type of the project and estimated
amount by municipality:
Proposed Costs and Financing Summary Chart for the PDEM
(US$ millions)
_____ _   Cost | Financing                     Percentage of Financing       l
ISub Component          Total |External |]  Municipal Gov.  FiI External   Municipal Gov.
Civil works and Furniturell 54.00    47.50         6.50        100       88              12
Pedagogical Projects  7| 15.00 | 770               7.30       ]j 100     51             49
[Supervision --2.90                00 °             2.90      ]I10  °I   0              100
JFIS/Others               6.60 || 0.00   ||6.60                I10I    0                100
Total                   78.50    55.20            23.30                        I



Project Appraisal Document:                                                          Page A - 31
Country: BOLIVIA                                         Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
ESTIMATED AMOUNTS - AVERAGE PER MUNICIPALITIES
(in US$ Thousand)
Municipalities with Integrated                            Municipalities with Projects only of
Projects
(Costs per                                                     Education Process
Nucleus)
Total   Investment per    Municipal        External Funds      Total    Investments per  External Funds
l Municipalities     Counterpart  by Municipalities  Investment  Municipalities  per Municipalities
stmenl
tl
per  l                   2   (28%)             (72%)                          (28%)             (72%)
ontest                                                                                                       -
j 9,889.1]j           123.6_j      34.6                  89.0      1,553.6 j    _       3.C                7.7
__    1,014.4jj       123.6jj      34.6  j|       _       89.0ii    3,267.9i3 0ii                           7.7
__    5,451.8jj       123.6jj       34.6  jj              89.0jj    2,410.711           3.0j                7.7
|| 7,644.7jj          123.6jj      34.6_jj                89.0j    2,410.7              3.                  7.7
11 4,000.011              11             11      _11   9,642.9



Project Appraisal Document:                                                           Page A - 32
Country: BOLIVIA                                         Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
TENTATIVE SCHEME OF PARTICIPATION PER CONTEST
Number of Nucleus per                               Estimated Amounts
es      Number       Project   IntegrtTotals                Project           IUrt               Processes  -
of                                                                 It gae            _ _ _ _ _ _
Municipal    only for     Projects                  only for     Processes    Civil        Totals       Totals per
t      ~ities     Education                              Education                  Works                      Contest
per
Processt                               Processes
*     | ][   100 ][        145J            80       251         1,553.6|      857.1   9,032.0         9,889.1|       11,442.7
*                 11 l     305|           170       475         3,267.91    1,821.4] 19,193.01       21,014.4||      24,282.3
=*   1       155 ===S        | ]~  22125]  _                    2,41o73] 14,112.5                    15,451.8]1      17,862.5
*  ](    ~~156         22511          125j      350 1(       2,410.7    1,339.3] 11,662.5(      13,001.801      15,412.50
Is          622* [        900||          500]      00|          9,642.9|| * 5,357.1] 54,000.0|I    59,357.10|      69.000.00
ii       15,000. 00
US$
Average Cost Estimated of project, only of
education processes:                                               10,714.29
Average Cost Estimated of civil works, of
integrated projects:                                              112,900.00
Average Cost Estimate of complete integral
project:                                                          123,614.29
* In average, this scheme allows the
presentation of projects per municipalities,
In two instances



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                  Page A - 33
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The total amounts per Municipality include the resources that will be allocated to winners Educational Projects for
Nucleus as well as to urgent investments in infrastructure and equipment for the Nucleus that will be joining the
Curriculum Transformation Program.
To execute the Educational Projects, in the area that refers specifically to the pedagogical- curricular bid, an average
amount $US 10,000 has been established per Nucleus. To this we must add the cost of school infrastructure and
equipment requirements for each Project.
The municipal counterpart, of approximately 30% which will covered entirely the infrastructure investment,
equipment and improvernent of the processes of teaching and learning, would increase during the third and fourth
contest.
Is important to clarify that the gradually joining of the municipalities to the contests will not exclude the participation
of the total municipalities in the country in the general information and training actions related to the Project, with
which will intent to introduce some basic criteria in the framework of the municipal and school educational
management, so in that sense modifying the logical planning in a short-term, based on disperse demands.
The total amount per Municipality is referential, and will be specified based on the following criteria:
* Poverty level in each Municipality
*  Co-participation resources per Municipality
*  The Municipality's own resources
*  Number of Educational Nucleus per Municipality, that are integrated to the Curriculum Transformation Program,
already to elaborate educational projects.
* Results of the Infrastructure Inventory per Municipality
* Resources that were already allocated by other sources to improve the infrastructure and equipment
* The municipalities that are integrated into the financial-management program developed by the Vice-Ministry of
Popular Participation.
From a minimum line-basis assigned to each mtnicipality, will allow to establish the following criteria:
* Municipal ceilings
T The Municipalities that shall participate in each contest.
* The number of Educational Projects for Nucleus to be financed per Municipality
* The number of Educational Nucleus per Municipality that will receive support for school infrastructure and
equipment.
The Municipalities may invest the total amount allocated to them during the Project's five year life, taking into
account:
* The annual capacity to meet the counterpart.
* Progress in the nucleus forming process.
* Quantity and quality of the Educational Projects for Nucleus submitted to the contest.
* Results of the Infrastructure Inventory.
With reference specifically to the Education Nucleus Projects is important to mention that if the formulation will
include the actions definitions to improve the learning and teaching processes, so as requirements in infrastructure
and equipment, the Evaluation Departmental Committee will have the responsibility-based on available resources by
Municipality and the inventory information, to be defined;
* Educational Nucleus Projects to be financed totally, including all the actions related to the processes of learning
and teaching and all the requirements regarding to infrastructure and equipment.
* Educational Nucleus Projects to be financed partially, excluding a portion or the total of the defined costs for
infrastructure works and equipment that will no be justified by the information provided by the inventory.
The Project's sustainabiliity as a whole as well as the Municipal Educational Development Programs and Educational



Project Appraisal Document:                                                             Page A - 34
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Nucleus Projects in particular will depend on the adequate interrelationship between the norms and the institutional
and financial aspects, as well as the permanent coordination - within the framework of the Municipal and School
Educational Management - among the different actors involved in the Project's coordination and execution at the
national, departmental and local levels.
The following table shows the general construction process of the elaboration, implementation and evaluation of the
Educational Nucleus Projects and Municipal Educational Development Program, taking into account the different
entities involved and their specific authority, as well as the general actions in the area of training and technical
assistance described in greater detail in the following component (B. Strengthening of Municipal/School Educational
Management):
ELABORATION OF BIDS AT THE MUNICIPAL LEVEL AND THEIR EVALUATION
I Elaboration of Educational Projects by the Educational Unit.
Training
Participants: Educational Units Directors (UE's), Teachers, Advisors, Councils, School Boards.
2 Analysis of Educational Projects prepared by the Educational Units that are part of a Nucleus, taking as a
reference the specific situation of the: UE's, Nucleus and the Municipality's overall situation.
Training
Participants: Nucleus and UE's Directors, District Head Offices, Nucleus Councils and Municipal Governments
3 Elaboration of Educational Projects for Nucleus
Technical Assistance
Participants: Nucleus Directors, District Head Offices, Teachers and Nucleus Councils
4 Contest of Educational Projects for Nucleus
Project Evaluation at the municipal level
Definition of evaluation criteria and training of Municipal Committees
Participants: Municipal Governments, District Head Offices, Representatives of Nucleus Councils
5 Preliminary elaboration of Municipal Educational Development Programs (PDEMs)
Technical Assistance
Participants:. Municipal Governments, District Head Offices, Representatives of Nucleus Councils
EVALUATION OF BIDS AT THE DEPARTMENTAL LEVEL
6 Evaluation of PDEMs submitted by each Municipality to the Departmental Committees, allowing define the
winners Educational Nucleus Projects to be financed totally or partially.
Results spreading.
Definition of evaluation criteria and training of Evaluation Departmental Committees
Participants: National Representatives of MECD-VEIPS, FIS, Independent Professionals, CEPOS.
BID CONSOLIDATION, DETAILED PLANNING AND FUNDS ALLOCATION
7 Consolidation of PDEM's to municipal level, taking into account the results and recommendations of the
Departmental Committee
Elaboration of Operation Annual Plans, based on PDEM's, for five years
Participants: Municipal Governments, District Head Offices and Representatives of Nucleus Councils
8 Annual allocation for approved Educational Nucleus Projects
Participants: VEIPS, Municipal Governments



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 35
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
9  Adjust of not approved educational projects, municipal and departmental evaluation for its financing in the next
contest; only municipal evaluation for its financing through alternative resources.
Technical Assistance.
Participants: Municipal Governments, District Educational Head Offices, Nucleus Councils, Nucleus;
Departmental Evaluation Committee
EXECUTION, FOLLOW UP AND EVALUATION
10 Execution of infrastructure works for Educational Projects for Nucleus and implementation of Educational
Projects in pedagogical-curricular areas.
Supply of Office Furniture, and Equipment
Technical Assistance.
Participants: Local Entities, VEIPS, FIS
I 11 Follow up, Evaluation and Systematization. Invitation for future contests.l
Participants: Local Entities, MECD-VEIPS, FISl
Implementation Strategy
ELABORATION AND EVALUATION OF BIDS AT THE MUNICIPAL LEVEL
* Projects for Nucleus will enter the contest and they shall be evaluated successively by a previously Taking into
consideration the pedagogical-curricular policies and principles established by the Educational Reform and the
specific situation of each municipality, nucleus and educational unit, Educational Projects will be initially
identified for each educational unit, which after a joint analysis by the local entities, will be consolidated in
Educational Projects for Nucleus; based on their contents and minimum requirements defined at the national level
and transferred through the training processes.
* According to the technical-architectural criteria defined by the Project and the results of the National-Municipal
Inventory of Educational Infrastructure, the Municipal Governments and Educational Nucleus integrated to the
Transformation Program shall identify their needs for refurbishing and enlarging existing infrastructures, the
construction of new buildings and the provision of school equipment. The refurbishing works will be covered
directly by the Municipal Governments.
* The Educational trained Municipal Evaluation Committee and a Departmental Evaluation Committee, taking into
consideration predetermined criteria at the national level.
* The Municipal Evaluation Committees (311) may reject Educational Projects for Nucleus that fail to comply with
the minimum requirements, which after due correction by each nucleus and its approval at the municipal and
departmental level may be financed with the Project's resources available in each Municipality (third or fourth
contest) or only through a municipal evaluation with other funds available for the educational sector to be
channeled following the same criteria established in the PDEMs.
* Considering the municipality's general educational situation, the Infrastructure Inventory and the Educational
Projects for Nucleus approved by the Municipal Evaluation Committee, each Municipal Government in
coordination with the District's Educational Head Office and a representative of the Nucleus Council shall
elaborate a previous version of their Municipal Educational Development Program (PDEM) to be presented to
the Departmental Evaluation Committee.
Taking into account that the PDEMs are instruments used to plan educational development, they will also reflect
other aspects related to the Municipal and School Educational Management: municipal educational mission,



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 36
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
prioritized educational policies, internal reorganization and inter-institutional relations, reorganization of the
administrative staff and faculty based on the nucleus forming process, popular participation bodies and their main
functions. On the other hand, they will also reflect the allocation of resources -taking into account the actions to
be co-financed by the Project and the actions to be covered with the municipal resources (inputs, reparations and
maintenance)-, co-funding and co-participation policies for the implementation of PDEMs.
EVALUATION OF BIDS AT THE DEPARTMENTAL LEVEL
The Departmental Evaluation Committees (9), composed by national representatives of the MECD-VEIPS, FIS,
independent professionals and Educational Councils of Native Population Groups (CEPOS), shall evaluate the
bids of each Educational Project for Nucleus.
After the departmental evaluation is carried out, the following situations may arise:
a) Municipalities with all their Educational Projects for Nucleus approved based on their technical quality and
the municipal ceiling.
b)- Municipalities with all the Educational Projects for Nucleus approved, but which must increase their
counterpart contributions or make adjustments so as not to exceed the municipal ceiling. In the event
adjustments are made, a new evaluation of the bids will be carried out at the departmental level.
c) Municipalities with one or more Educational Projects for Nucleus rejected, and which after being corrected
and evaluated at the municipal-departmental level may be financed with the Project's resources or alternative
resources, prior agreement between the funding entity and the Municipal Government within the framework
of the criteria established by this project.
Specifically, with reference to the Educational Nucleus Projects, the Departmental Committees shall define:
d) the Educational Nucleus Projects to be financed totally, including all the actions related to the processes of
learning and teaching and all the requirements regarding to infrastructure and equipment.
e) the Educational Nucleus Projects to be financed partially, excluding a portion or the total of the defined costs
for infrastructure works and equipment that will no be justified by the information provided by the inventory.
CONSOLIDATION OF BIDS AND DETAILED PLANNING AND ALLOCATION RESOURCES
. After publishing results by the Departmental Committees, the Municipal Governments in coordination with
District Head Offices and Representatives of Nucleus Councils, will consolidated their PDEM's and the detailed
planning of the actions defined in its PDEM's, to be reflected in the Annual Operational Plan.
. In accordance with the Annual Operational Plans, the MECD-VEIPS, will assign project resources to the
municipal governments, which will deliver to the educational nucleus the corresponding resources to the
improvement processes of teaching and learning defined in the educational projects and to the FIS the
corresponding resources for the infrastructures works and school equipment.
* The nucleus will do the correction of rejected educational projects by the Municipal and Departmental Evaluation
Committees. Once corrected, will be evaluated by municipal and departmental level during the next contest or
only to municipal level in case to decide the financing with alternative resource .
* In accordance with Annual Operational Plans, the FIS will evaluate the final designs of infrastructure educational
projects for its respective execution.
EXECUTION, FOLLOW UP AND EVALUATION
* The MECD-VEIPS is responsible for Project coordination and ensuring the correlation between the actions that
are currently being developed by the different departments of the Technical Services Unit and the actions



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 37
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
proposed by the project-on a complementary basis.
The departments that will participate will be: Professional Development, Institutional Strengthening, Information
and Analysis, Curriculum Development, Transversals, Resources Administration, Edition and Distribution.
Actions will be coordinated with the Communications Unit.
The representatives of the Departments mentioned above, will coordinate with the central work team of the
Project, to be established inside the MECD's structure.
* FIS will transfer funds to the municipalities for the execution and supervision of the infrastructure works,
provision of school equipment and pedagogical process improvements. These processes will be shared with the
Municipal Governments based on the authority assigned by the Educational Reform Law, the Popular
Participation Law and the Administrative Decentralization Law. It will also take part in the general coordination
of the National/Municipal Inventory of Educational Infrastructure in conjunction with the MECD-VEIPS.
*  The Educational Nucleus and Educational Units Associated are responsible for the elaboration of the Educational
Projects, its implementation, follow-up and evaluation; in direct coordination with the School and Nucleus
Councils and the District Head Office. The municipal government will be in charge of the resources allocation to
the Educational Nucleus, in accordance to the annual defined activities in the framework of Educational Projects.
a To apply the Contest Funds Modality, specific Regulations shall be developed, which may be updated in
accordance with the progress attained and subject to the difficulties that may arise during the process. The same
is true for the training materials.
* The execution of infrastructure works shall not necessarily coincide with the execution of the Educational
Projects as far as the pedagogical and curricular aspects are concerned (one to two years).
*  The follow up and evaluation process shall involve local, departmental and national entities.
Evaluation workshops will be organized at the departmental and national level, to establish the progress attained
or the difficulties that hinder the execution of the PDEMs, having all the necessary information to authorize or
postpone the allocation of resources to the municipalities that failed to comply with the established requirements.
General Implementation Timetable
Activities                                                      Year Year Year Year Year Year
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~ ~~ ~ ~  ~~0  1  2  3  4  5
Organization of Technical Team responsible for Project coordination   X
(MECD) and FIS specific responsibilities.
Dissemination campaign, invitation to Contests, Updating of Regulations   X
and Training Materials.
Information workshop at the departmental and municipal level.    X
Selection of Municipalities that will take part in the four contests    X     X     X     X
Evaluation of Educational Projects for Nucleus and determination  of    X     X     X     X
infrastructure works for Nucleus that join the Transformation Program,
by Municipal and Departmental Committees.
Consolidation of PDEM's, elaboration of Operational Plans, approval of  X     X     X     X
I.E. projects by FIS and allocation of funds.
Execution, follow up, evaluation and systematization                    X     X     X      X     X
Risks



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                 Page A - 38
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
*  Educational management at the local level is at risk of being biased, until the legal instruments that are currently
in effect are complemented, and the sector is restructured and decentralized.
*  Without the active participation of the strategic local actors and a permanent coordination with them, the
implementation, institutionalization and sustainability of the Reform are at risk.
*  The implementation and results foreseen for the project will be at risk if foreign financial resources and local
counterpart funds are not available in due time or if these are not sufficient to cover all the municipalities.
*  Resource allocation mechanisms to improve the educational infrastructure, parallel to the Contest Funds
Modality, aimed at meeting scattered, short term demands.
*  Scattering and lack of continuity in the implementation of the different components of the Educational Reform,
putting at risk the project's impact as regards quality improvement and equitable education.
B. STRENGTHENING OF MUNICIPAL AND SCHOOL EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Justification
To develop this Component it is necessary to complement, qualify and reorganize the work carried out until now as
regards educational information, management and evaluation.
The new legal framework assigns functions, attributions, responsibilities and authority to the Municipal
Governments, and most of them have found it very difficult to comply with them. This is mainly due to their
institutional and organizational weakness which resulted from the almost total lack of attributions at the national and
local level that they experienced for the past fifty years, and most specifically to their scarce experience in
Educational Management.
The District Educational Head Offices, the popular participation bodies (District Councils, Nucleus Councils and
School Councils), the Directors of the different Nucleus and Educational Units as well as the faculty are facing the
same situation, given that they have to assume new responsibilities within the framework of Educational
Management, among which there is the elaboration, implementation and evaluation of Educational Projects.
Although the Laws establish specific norms, it is possible that, upon the absence of support mechanisms and
concrete guidelines, the different local entities could lack the basic capabilities, conditions and instruments to
comply with these dispositions.
The above determines the need to provide continuous support, through training and technical assistance to these
entities so they may assume their leading roles within the local educational management process, taking into
consideration the different dimensions of the educational process, and assuming that isolated efforts will not allow
them to attain the desired impacts.
On the other hand, it is necessary to furnish specific instruments to facilitate the planning, execution, follow up and
evaluation processes at the Educational Nucleus as well as at the Municipal Government's level. As was mentioned
in the preceding Component (A. Municipal Educational Development Program), the Educational Projects and the
Municipal Educational Development Programs will actually facilitate these processes. However, the absence of
updated information concerning the location, actual conditions and use of the Educational Infrastructure, as well as
the impossibility of local entities to have direct access to an sub-information system and to update it permanently,
put this desired impact at risk which we intent to attain through the Project within the framework of the Municipal
and School Educational Management.
Therefore, this component includes the execution of a National/Municipal Inventory of Educational Infrastructure
and the implementation of a Municipal Information Sub-system to plan the Educational Infrastructure (SSIMPIE)
which depends upon and complements the Educational Information System (SIE) of the MECD-VEIPS - to which
there is access only from the national and departmental levels - and which will take as a baseline the information
furnished by the Inventory.
Finally, and taking into account the important role assigned to the Educational District Head Offices, many of which
do not possess the necessary conditions to adequately comply with the responsibilities assigned to them, it is



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 39
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
considered important to provide specific support to these entities complementing the institutional strengthening
actions that were already carried out by the Educational Reform Project.
Objectives
To strengthen the municipal and school educational management, considering the attributions assigned to the
Municipal Governments, Popular Participation Bodies in the area of education and the different local entities within
the educational sector, through permanent training and technical assistance, the provision of instruments that will
allow for integral, long term planning of local educational development, and the provision of equipment to the
District's Educational Head Offices.
To have sufficient and pertinent information as regards the location, condition and use of educational infrastructures
throughout the country's municipalities, in order to establish priorities with respect to the investments in school
infrastructure and equipment.
To provide the Municipal Governments with an Information sub-system that will allow them to plan actions in the
area of Infrastructure and Educational Management in general, as well as to permanently update the information
from the municipal level and gather data generated by other information systems at the national level.
To strengthen the Educational District Head Offices so they may efficiently comply with the responsibilities that
were assigned to them through the provision of complementary equipment in addition to that foreseen by the current
Educational Reform Program..
To implement a training and technical assistance structure, that would provide the necessary help to the different
actors involved in the Project, with the objective to strenghten their performance and responsibilities.
Description
The Component includes actions to be carried out prior to and during the Project's execution.
Prior activities include the elaboration of an Inventory, the installation of data bases (SSIMPIE) in each Municipal
Government, the elaboration of support materials and training for the elaboration of Educational Projects. Training
and technical assistance actions, updating of support materials, evaluation and updating of proposed mechanisms and
criteria constitute part of the execution process.
A group composed by a total of 300 persons hired in the different departments and trained for this purpose will be in
charge of collecting the information for the Inventory. On the other hand, representatives of the Municipal
Governments, Educational District Head Offices and popular participation bodies in the area of education shall
participate in the general organization and visits to each nucleus and educational unit, thus enabling the local
authorities to get involved in the process and become familiar with the type of information necessary for a better
planning of educational infrastructure.
The MECD/VEIPS (SIE and the Heads of Planning at the Departmental level) and FIS (Regional Heads,
Departmental Heads and Evaluators) will be in charge of the general coordination.
The information obtained will be incorporated to the Data Bases installed in each Municipal Government
(SSIMPIE), which will allow each municipality to immediately take advantage of this initial effort, which will later
on become one more responsibility within the framework of municipal educational management.
The SSIMPIE, being a Municipal Information Sub-system, gathers and furnishes information that the Municipal
Governments and other entities involved in local educational management may use and update immediately and
permanently, to adjust the planning and evaluation of local educational development. On the other hand, the
sub-system allows for the recovery of information generated by the Educational Information System (SIE) of the
MECD and other national systems, which may in turn take advantage of the information generated by the SSIMPIE.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 40
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The handling of information generated by the SSIMPIE and its qualitative interpretation shall be carried out by duly
trained staff, and for this purpose the human resources available in the Municipal Governments and/or Educational
District Head Offices will be trained, to establish the relationships with the variables and goals established by the
Educational Reform as regards the minimum conditions required for an effective teaching-learning process, which
will allow for the establishment of concrete actions in the area of infrastructure for the Educational Reform's
consolidation process.
Training and technical assistance constitute two central actions within this project's framework, taking into account
the new authority assigned to the different local entities linked to the Municipal and School Educational
Management, and within a general framework, the learning experience of a new logic set forth by the project for the
different entities involved at those levels.
This training and technical assistance shall be related not only with the elaboration, implementation, follow up and
evaluation of the Educational Projects for Nucleus and the Municipal Educational Development Programs (PDEMs),
but also with the use of support instruments for this process: the National/Municipal Inventory of Educational
Infrastructure and the Municipal Information Sub-system for the Planning of Educational Infrastructure (SSIMPIE).
Specific support to the Educational District Head Offices will allow them to meet the minimum conditions to
maintain a permanent relationship with the Educational Units and popular participation bodies, as well as with the
departmental and national entities that depend from this sector, in order to have the necessary information, transmit it
and feed back that information, and to identify and meet the demands at the local level.
Within this framework, the Project shall endow the District Head Offices with motorcycles or other light means of
transportation adequate for the special characteristics of the terrain and in keeping with the available budget. On the
other hand, based on an analysis of the equipment delivered by PRE, they shall be endowed with means of
communication according to the municipalities' specific characteristics (electricity, solar panels or other) and
furniture in exceptional cases.
Implementation Strategy
National/Municipal Inventory of Educational Infrastructure
- Taking as a basis the general design of the Inventory, the teams responsible for the coordination and information
gathering will be organized by department and by municipality. Once they finish their training, operations will
begin and for this purpose a number of forms, support manuals and working materials will be used. Once the
assigned Nucleus are covered, the surveyors shall hand over the information to feed it to the system.
* The information of each municipality shall be incorporated to the Municipal Information Sub-system (SSIMPIE)
so the Municipal Governments and other local entities involved in the educational sector may use it for the
elaboration of Educational Projects for Nucleus as well as Municipal Educational Development Programs
(PDEMs) and they may update them based on the progress attained by the planned actions.
* Once the information is systematized at the municipal, departmental and national level, a Final Report shall be
elaborated and the different entities involved directly or indirectly in the Project's execution (MECD, FIS, VPP,
DMD, INE) shall have access to it.
Sub-system Information for Planning of the Educational Infrastructure (SSIMPIE)
* After the internal evaluation of the SSIMPIE, the Sub-system shall be installed in all the country's municipalities.
Representatives of the Municipal Governments and Educational District Head Offices shall be trained in the
handling and maintenance of the Sub-system. This training shall be complemented during the workshops related
with the elaboration of Educational Projects and the PDEMs where emphasis shall be given to the use of
information for planning purposes.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 41
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
* After the establishiment of the Sub-system, a new workshop will be held where the participants shall share the
difficulties concerning the handling thereof. Afterwards, update workshops will be held with the aim of clearing
any doubts that may arise during the actual implementation thereof (execution of PDEMs).
The information provided by SSIMPIE, related directly with that provided by SIE and SIMECAL, will support
the evaluation and monitoring processes that will consider the following aspects: the client satisfaction (various
local entities involved in the execution project); education investment, comparing the municipalities involved and
not involved in the Project; educational results considering the access, attendance and permanency in the nucleus,
the years required for school years completed and, the quality in the school render, taking into account the
nucleus included and not included in the Project.
* A Technical Manual and a Users' Handbook shall be delivered. These will contain the necessary aspects related
to the handling of the system, its structure and contents, and general references concerning its use to plan actions
within the framework of the Municipal and School Educational Infrastructure and Management.
* Given that the Sub-system was conceived from an integral standpoint, taking into consideration demographic,
socioeconomic and educational information, coordination will be established with some National Information
Systems (INE, UDAPSO, SNE). Specifically with respect to the MECD-VEIPS, coordination will be permanent
to avoid duplicity of information, operations and, in general, contradictions or vacuums as regards the orientation
of the different local entities concerning the quality and usefulness of the information for decentralized
educational planning.
Training and Technical Assistance
- The elaboration, implementation and evaluation process of Educational Projects for Nucleus in particular and the
Municipal Educational Development Programs in general, shall have as a basis the training and technical
assistance actions for the programs during the Project's five year life.
To national level, the responsibilities in the design, execution, follow-up and evaluation of the training and
technical assistance strategies will be assumed by the central team of the Project and, particularly by the
following Departrnents of the Technical Services Unit (VEIPS): Professional Formation, Curriculum
Development and Institutional Strengthening. The special aspects related to the educational infrastructure and
school equipment, will be coordinated with the FIS.
* Elaboration of Terms of Reference, Invitation, Training and selection of institutions and independent consultants
responsible for the training and technical assistance activities at the municipal level.
* Elaboration of support materials which shall be updated according to the progress attained, and the difficulties
that may be observed in the training processes at the different local entities.
*  The following actions were established for Training and Technical Assistance, intended for the different local
entities involved in the project's execution:
a) Training prior to the contest for Educational Projects for Nucleus, in two different groups: (1) Faculty,
Directors of Educational Units and School Councils, (2) Nucleus Directors, District Education Directors and
Municipal Governments.
General Topics: Municipal and School Educational Management, Educational Projects, Architectural
Program, Contest Funds Modality, Municipal Educational Development Programs, Budget elaboration,
Follow Up and Evaluation.
b) Training of staff from the Municipal Governments and Educational District Head Offices in the handling of
the Municipal Information Sub-system (SSIMPIE) and its correspondence with the SIE.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 42
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
c) Permanent Technical Assistance during the elaboration process of Educational Projects for Educational Units,
Educational Projects for Nucleus and Municipal Educational Development Programs (PDEMs), also divided
in different groups: (1) Selected faculty teams (Educational Project Management Teams), Nucleus Councils,
(2) Nucleus Directors, District Educational Directors and Municipal Governments.
General Topics: definition process for Educational Projects, PDEMs, group dynamics, conflict resolution,
institutional and inter-institutional organization and coordination processes, mechanisms and scenarios for
community participation, organizational development, human resources management, etc.
d) Training of Municipal Evaluation Committees (Municipal Governments, Educational District Head Offices,
District Councils) and Departmental Evaluation Committees (representatives of the MECD-VEIPS,
independent professionals and CEPOS).
General Topics: Educational Projects, Architectural Program, Basis of the Contest, Procedures Manual,
Evaluation Criteria, PDEM's guidelines and general requirements and others.
e) Permanent Technical Assistance during the execution process of Educational Projects for Nucleus in
particular and Municipal Educational Development Programs in general. This Assistance shall comprise the
Nucleus, Educational District Head Offices, Popular Participation Bodies and Municipal Governments.
General Topics: Pedagogical and Curricular Innovation, Improvement of School Infrastructure and
Equipment, Follow Up and Evaluation, Budget Management.
• Permanent coordination shall be established among MECD-VEIPS and the Vice Ministry of Popular
Participation and other entities in order to adjust viewpoints regarding decentralized Educational Management
and training contents, as well as to avoid the duplicity of efforts as regards the training events and support
materials.
*  There will be training and technical assistance for the municipios and for the local educational institutions
related to the infrastructure investment of the PDEMs. This will include preinvestment (choice of design and
costs) as well as training for the sustainability of the investments (operation and maintenance).
Equipment for Educational District Head Offices
* The actions developed by MECD-VEIPS and their distribution system shall be taken into account for the
provision of equipment to the Educational District Head Offices.
* Equipment deliveries shall be carried out during the Project's first two years, as an incentive to the active
participation of the Educational District Head Offices in the different actions foreseen by the Project.
*  IJNAR shall be in charge of controlling deliveries and elaborating reports.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                             Page A - 43
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
General Implementation Schedule
Activities                                                           Marc  April May  June  July
Inventory (Year 0)                                                     h
Determination of responsibilities by entity (MECD, FIS) and available staff  X  =_=_=
Determination of Departmental Strategies                               X
Coordination of the Dissemination Strategy and Instructions            X       __            _
Determination of contents and training materials                       X     X   __
Final design and printing of Forms and Handbook                              X           _
Procurement of materials                                                     X
Training of coordination teams (MECD, FIS)                                   X
Training of Surveyors                                                        X
Inventory Execution                                                                X    X    X
Collection of forms                                                                      X     X
Information processing and consolidation by municipality                     =     =    =      X
Elaboration and submission of National Report                          __       _               X
Activities                                                     Year Year Year Year Year Year
Municipal Information Sub-system (SSIMPIE)                       0     1     2     3      4     5
Sub-system's validation                                         X
Incorporation of Inventory information                           X
Establishment of Sub.-system at the national level               X
Agreements with National Information Systems                     X
Training of Consultants                                          X
Training of Municipal Govemments and Educational District Head         X
Offices
Staff training at the municipal level                                        X           X
Technical Assistance                                                   X     X     X     X      X
SIMPIE Reports                                                         X     X     X     X      X
Training and Technical Assistance
Detailed elaboration of Training Strategy                        X
Detailed elaboration of Technical Assistance Strategy            X
Design and printing of training materials                        X     _
Training workshops for institutions or consultants responsible for  X                    -     -
training activities at the municipal level
Training workshops for local entities                                  X     X     X
Training and updated handling of SSIMPIE/SIE                           X     X           X
Technical Assistance for local entities                                X     X     X     X      X
Training and Updating of Evaluation Committees                         X     X     X
Equipment for Educational District Head Offices
Analysis of the equipment that has already been distributed and   X
determination of pending equipment by the District's Head Office
Organization of the Distribution and Control System              _    X
Equipment Delivery                                                     X     X
UNAR is in charge of Follow Up and Control                       =    X      X     =__



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                Page A - 44
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Risks
*  The predictive and planning capacity will be annulled if the information is not permanently updated, collected
and interpreted at the local level
*  The lack of coordination and support on the part of the national, departmental and district educational entities
may make it difficult to gather sufficient and pertinent information for the Inventory to plan actions in the area of
School Infrastructure and Equipment.
* The failure of the Municipal Governments and popular participation bodies to participate in the organization and
follow up of Inventories may stress the executor role of the local entities and the centralization of capacities and
information at the national and departmental levels.
*  Irregular attendance to training workshops scheduled by the Project.
*  The lack of sufficient human and financial resources to ensure training and technical assistance to the
municipalities for the elaboration, implementation and evaluation of Educational Projects for Nucleus and
Municipal Educational Development Programs.
*  Municipal and school educational management is at risk of being biased, until the legal instruments that are
currently in effect are complemented and the sector is restructured and decentralized.
* Lack of clarity concerning the municipal authority within the framework of educational management and the
handling of information in particular.
*  Lack of personnel to take care of the educational area and the handling of the Information Sub-system in
particular, at the local level.
*  Insufficient or non existent computer infrastructure and/or equipment at the local level.
*  The assurance of having completely reliable data exceeds the responsibility of the Municipal Governments as
regards the information that was not obtained directly.
*  A very large number of participants in the training process and the impossibility to evaluate the impact of the
process in the different defined levels.
C. FIS INVESTMENTS
Justification
In Bolivia there are approximately 12,000 schools, of which approximately 30% (3,600 schools) are in fair and
acceptable condition, and the remaining 70% (8,400 schools) require rebuilding or refurbishing. The World Bank in
its mission to iden.ify the Project to Strengthen Educational Quality and Equity has estimated that approximately
US$ 1,000 million are required to provide an integral solution to the school infrastructure problem.
Since its creation, the Social Investment Fund (FIS) has contributed to the improvement of the school infrastructure
deficit through the funding of 1,438 school facilities for a total of US$ 124 million. Formal Education constitutes the
main program implemented by FIS, representing 45% of its investments.
Objective
To comply with all the commitments made to the Municipal Governments for the execution of school infrastructure,
prioritizing Nucleus that are part of the Educational Reform's Curriculum Transformation Program.
Description
The procedure to be followed to finance school infrastructure shall adjust to the framework of FIS project cycle,
which was already established as a methodology for institutional work, and comprises participatory planning
processes, negotiation with the municipalities, project evaluation, project approval, bidding and the subscription of
contracts on the part of the municipalities, as well as follow up and supervision.
Subject to the co-funding guidelines executed in coordination with the municipalities within the framework of the



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 45
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Popular Participation Law, the municipalities shall contribute financial resources to cover their investment
counterpart, administrative expenses and contingencies stemming from project execution.
School infrastructure projects to be financed comply with construction norms defined by the MECT
Implementation Strategies
Bank resources for retroactive financing will not exceed 10 percent of the credit amount, incurred within 12 months
of the date of signing of the Credit Agreement and will be subject to the following conditions:
* Projects eligible for retroactive financing should be in accordance with Bank's procurement guidelines.
* The project will include a portion of the administrative costs related to the subprojects financed by the World
Bank.
* The MECD will send to the Bank for review before May 25, 1998, all the documentation for the 21 projects for
amounts above US$150,000 indicated in the Annex
* The MECD will hire a technical auditing for at least 30% of the reminder of the eligible projects.
* The Bank will carry out a supervision, including field visits, of a random number of eligible projects above
US$150,000
Risks
. The execution of school infrastructure would be considerably delayed if the corresponding funds are not
disbursed by the second semester of 1998
* The credibility of the municipalities within the co-funding process would be affected by delays in re-starting the
civil works
D. SCHOOL ENROLLMENT AND PERMANENCE OF RURAL GIRLS
Justification
The Educational Reform comprises among its main objectives guaranteeing equal educational opportunities for all,
taking into consideration the Basic Learning Needs of different cultural and social groups.
Within this framework, the need to guarantee equal opportunities for males and females is specifically set forth. To
attain this, the Educational Reform has chosen to integrate the transversal of Gender Equity, which "... refers to the
need to establish and develop relationships at the students level, both among males and females, based on mutual
respect, solidarity and equity, critically valuing the roles of men and women in their different environments within
the family, at the workplace and at the community level, emphasizing the full development of their potential and
capabilities and offering equal opportunities to both; thus preparing both males and females to exercise their rights as
citizens without any violence or discriminations of any nature" (The Education Reform's New Curricula, 1995).
The transversal handling of Gender Equity must allow for an incidence on the educational system as a whole, in
order to attain equal opportunities for boys and girls, which is reflected in their school access and permanence, as
well as in their educational level (competence, contents, learning activities, assessment).
According to the data of the National Planning and Institutional Development Unit (UNPDI, 1996) Elementary
School coverage is 89.95% for males and 85.05% for females.
However, at the national level and at the primary level in particular, the indicators do not show significant
differences between males and females, and many times these data fail to reflect the differences that do exist at the
rural and urban levels.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 46
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
1992 general attendance rate of the population between 6 and 19 years of age by sex and area
SEX
AGE        URBAN         URBAN        URBAN         RURAL        RURAL        RURAL
GROUPS        TOTAL       FEMALES       MALES         TOTAL       FEMALES       MALES
6 to 19 years   82.5%         80.9%        84.2%        62.9%         59.3%        66.2%
6 to 14 years   90.9%        90.1%         91.6%        74.9%        71.6%         78.1%
15 to 19 years    65.9%      63.3%         68.6%        29.3%        24.3%         33.8%
Source, 1992 Population and Housing Census
It seems that the differences at the national level are not as significant as those identified at the departmental level,
where female coverage is very low as opposed to male coverage. Let us look at some of these data:
Cochabamba            92.01% male            86.75% female
Oruro                 91.44% male            81.97% female
Potosi                89.37% male           77.44% female
Chuquisaca            84.41% male           77.37% female
The following observations were made at the municipal level:
74.5%          show inequities towards females,
5.4%         show gender equity,
19.6%         show inequity towards the male population.
The following examples illustrate the situation:
- In Oruro-s Litoral Province, at the Cruz de Machaca Municipality with a population of over 5,000 inhabitants
school coverage is 98% for males and 53% for females.
* In Potosi's Chayanta Province, at the Ravelo Municipality which corresponds to Category C, with populations
between 15,000 and 49,900 inhabitants, school coverage is 92% for males and 54% for females.
A detailed analysis allows us to observe that the differences between males and females, in terms of school access, in
certain municipalities and in the most impoverished areas are even more significant (Attached Tables I and 2).
On the other hand, differences may also be observed with respect to the age at which males and females enroll and
drop out of school. In many cases, the girls' enrollment is postponed because it is widely considered that their
education is not as necessary as their help with household chores. On the other hand, in many cases parents do not
want their daughters to continue studying after the age of 11 or 12 due to their exposure to sexual harassment and
teen pregnancy risks.
Finally, inequalities among males and females are also expressed through the type of education provided by the
schools, establishing explicit and implicit differences with respect to their capacity, roles, interests and projections.
Taking into account all the above the following problems may be identified:
a) Lack of assurances, because there is a larger number of male teachers in the schools, which leads the parents to
keep their daughters away from school. Likewise, the absence of adequate infrastructure may generate a level
of insecurity.
b) Violence, sexual harassment problems, teen pregnancies, and discrimination.
c) The distance to school also constitutes a problem because it is difficult for the children to attend the schools that
are located too far from their homes.
d) Opportunity costs, which may imply that boys and girls have to work to contribute to their family's income.
With respect to the girls, this also imnplies that they have to take care of their younger siblings, so the mother can
go to work.
e) Cultural representations of father/mother and faculty roles, which refer to the visions, perspectives and attitudes
that generate inequities.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 47
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
f) Schedules and calendars, when these are not adjusted to the chores that both boys and girls must perform in and
outside their homes, which implies a lesser degree of school participation.
Based on the above, it is essential to have more quantitative and qualitative information (access conditions, contents
and learning activities, equitable consideration of the needs of males and females, types of interaction in and outside
the classroom, faculty's expectations, etc.) to analyze - taking into account the gender approach in particular as well
as other complementary approaches - to what extent these factors can limit the attainment of equal opportunities
proposed by the Educational Reform, and to complement the actions carried out to date within the framework of
curricular design.
Objectives
Objectives of the Pilot Project
To perform on-site diagnosis in the 50 municipalities with the aim of determining access, permanence, attendance
and dropout rates by age and sex at the municipal level 1, as well as cultural and non cultural obstacles that limit the
permanence of males and females in primary school.
To promote greater access and permanence of rural girls between the ages of 6 and 14 in primary school, through the
implementation of different strategies: awareness raising, training and interventions targeting the educational
community in general and the parents and faculty in particular.
Long term objectives
To foster the access and permanence of rural girls through the generalization of successful and sustainable
intervention strategies.
To promote a change of attitude within the educational community with regard to the participation of rural girls in
school activities.
Beneficiaries
Population Data corresponding to the 50 selected Municipalities 2
Population                             Total               Males                Females
Total population                            770,156 375,165               394,991
School age population                      235,782 115,693                120,089
Primary school age population               165,874  80,547                85,327
Primary school age population that
attends school                   _                   76,036 = 94.4%        64,933 = 76.1%
The number of primary school age girls in the 50 Municipalities that would have to attend school to attain the same
percentage as the males is 15,615.
Description
The project takes into consideration three Components: municipal diagnosis, community awareness and faculty
training, and focalized interventions; taking into consideration that social, cultural, gender, and generational
1 The 50 municipalities mentioned in the Attachment will be taken into account, selected based on gender inequity
observed in terms of school coverage, school age population and poverty indicators.
2 1996 data



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                    Page A - 48
Country: BOLIVIA                                               Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
discriminations may be related among themselves, the gender approach as well as other complementary approaches
will be taken into consideration to perform an integral analysis with the necessary objectivity to justify actions to be
carried out in the future.
Diagnostic Component
Diagnosis, at the quantitative level, shall take into account the following data: age of enrollment in primary school,
differences according to municipalities and departments; dropout rates per year and/or cycle at the primary level,
and differences according to municipalities and departments; years of permanence and attendance rates, differences
according to municipalities and departments; correlation between the data obtained at the elementary school level
and the situation at the high school level; number of hours that boys and girls work in and outside their homes,
number of hours they attend school and number of hours they study; family income; expenses incurred by the
family for education. A technical assistance system is foreseen for this component based on this detailed research.
At the qualitative level, the following aspects will be taken into account: internal obstacles (school) and external
obstacles (community) to school access and permanence for boys and girls; dropout causes, taking into consideration
the aspects related to the educational organization (distance from home to school, schedules, calendars), educational
offerings (curriculum, faculty, interaction in and outside the classroom), perception and vision at the community
level and at the parents' level in particular; risks and denunciations of sexual harassment and teen pregnancies.
We propose to make the qualitative diagnosis first, in order to establish hypothesis that require more specific
quantitative data.
After obtaining the results of the qualitative and quantitative diagnosis a seminar is proposed to discuss the results
and define the criteria for the selection of Municipalities and determine the strategies to be implemented.
Researchers, the Technical Committee, NGOs and representatives of the World Bank will participate in said
Seminar. The results of the diagnosis and the agreements reached at said seminar shall be the starting point for the
execution of the awareness raising and training components and the Focalized Interventions, which shall be
executed in a parallel manner.
Community Awareness and Faculty Training Component
The process shall be launched based on the results of the diagnosis, which will allow for the structuring of the
awareness raising and training plan to be implemented in the 50 selected municipalities, as a pilot project.
Training will be offered to faculty members. The contents shall take into consideration the existing interrelations at
the educational level, discrimination, necessary transformations in terms of pedagogy-curriculum and the need to
guarantee equal opportunities for males and females.
The awareness raising effort will be offered to parents in general, school councils and mothers' clubs; taking into
consideration the results of the diagnosis, its medium and long term effects and possible solution alternatives.
Focalized Interventions Component
Taking into account the results of the diagnosis, the development of the following possible focalized interventions is
foreseen:
* Scholarships to complete the training of female teachers, as an option to foster female presence, and somehow
address the sexual harassment problem which results from the larger number of male teachers.
* Housing for female faculty members to foster an increased presence of female teachers in the rural area, who
will need to move to new locations with their families.
* Generation of Counterpart Funds for the Municipalities to establish day care centers within the framework of the
Minors' Care Program (PAM) in order to release the girls from their responsibility towards their younger
siblings.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                    Page A - 49
Country: BOLIVIA                                               Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
*   Transportation, as an alternative to the distance problem between the school and the children's homes.
*   Technical Support for the building of diversified branches at the district level to adjust the curriculum to the
girls needs.
Following is a brief description of the modalities within the focalized interventions component, which seeks to be
linked to Educational Projects.
*   Scholarships will be offered to:
a)  community women who dropped out of Teacher's School before concluding
b) their studies, and who will be granted the opportunity to finish their education
c)  thanks to the scholarship.
d)  interim female faculty members motivated to work in rural areas, who have the opportunity to further their
educational development.
The Municipality will be responsible for the selection of female scholarship candidates and the persons who are
selected must make a commitment to go back to their communities and work there for at least five years as part
of the faculty of the selected schools.
* The need to build homes was foreseen to ensure that female faculty members remain in the community with
their families. The construction of housing units will be controlled by the Municipality in coordination with
Educational Projects and the Social Investment fund (FIS).
* Counterpart Funds to establish day care centers, as an altemative to the girls' responsibility to care for their
younger siblings, which usually leads them to drop out of school temporarily or permanently. Likewise, it shall
allow the girls to have enough time to study.
These resources will enable the participating municipalities, most of them with very scarce resources, to have
funds that will be used as a counterpart to the Minors' Care Program. (PAM) for the construction and operation
of day care centers at the local level. The day care facilities could be located in the vicinity of the communities
or adjacent to sectional schools.
* Transportation as an option to the distance problem between the children's homes and their schools and the
safety concems linked to sexual harassment, rape and other violations.
The proposal foresees the hiring of transportation services by each municipality to pick up the students from
remote areas, thus avoiding the long walks to school and the ensuing risks.
* The construction of Diversified Branches shall imply a training and advisory process at the district level to
ensure the adjustrnent of the existing curriculum, schedules and calendars in the different educational units in the
district. Training and advisory services will be coordinated at the central level. Each district will be responsible
for the construction of Diversified Branches in coordination with the Educational Units.
There is a possibility to define other interventions according to the results of the diagnosis.
It is expected that this pilot experience will allow us to reinforce the work that was carried out so far within the
framework of the Educational Reform, taking into consideration the gender approach as well as its interrelation with
other complementary approaches, and to generalize the training and awareness raising actions and focalized
interventions. Based on the results of the pilot project the most successful interventions will be determined, and
these may be generalized.
An assessment was also foreseen after the first year of execution with the aim of making the necessary adjustments
to the different modalities.
Implementation Strategy



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                    Page A - 50
Country: BOLIVIA                                               Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
*   Establishment of an Intersectoral Technical Committee, composed by representatives of UNSTP-VEIPS and
the General Office for Gender Affairs under the Vice Ministry of Gender, Generation and Family Affairs,
responsible for monitoring, following up and evaluating the component in direct coordination with the different
units of the VEIPS involved in the Project's implementation.
The responsibility for monitoring, following up and evaluating these activities will be shared with the main local
bodies involved in the Project's execution (Municipal Governments, District Head Offices, Nuclei and School
Councils, Nucleusi Head Offices and Educational Units, Faculty).
*   Definition of diagnostic contents and instruments; Terms of Reference and Invitations for institutions or
independent consultants responsible for the execution of the diagnosis at the municipal level.
*   Information Systematization
*   Presentation of results at a seminar, definition of specific orientations to raise community awareness, faculty
training, focalized interventions and curricular design.
*   Definition of criteria to determine which municipalities will benefit from the implementation of focalized
interventions and control municipalities.
*   Definition of community awareness and faculty training strategies: organization and execution of different
events under the direct supervision of MECD-VEIPS and in permanent coordination with the Inter-sectorial
Technical Committee.
•   Terms of Reference and Invitations for institutions and independent consultants responsible for awareness
raising and training activities at the municipal level.
*   Definition of focalized intervention strategies and identification of beneficiary municipalities.
*   Establishment of coordination and management mechanisms at the local and central level with the participation
of the Social Investment Fund, the Minors' Care Program, etc.
*   Implementation of selected focalized strategies based on the selected municipalities and identification of control
municipalities.
*   Follow up and evaluation of awareness raising actions and training and focalized intervention at the municipal
and national levels.
*   Evaluation of Project execution after 18 months of implementation.
-  Adjustment of interventions based on the results of the evaluation.
*   General evaluation of the pilot experience and definition of strategies for generalized application.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 51
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
General Implementation Program  3
ACTIVITIES                                          Year  Year  Year  Year  Year  Year
0      1      2       3      4      5
Establishment of Intersectoral Technical Committee and
definition of specific responsibilities for each Unit  X
(VEPS)
Definition of contents and diagnostic instruments.   X
Invitation and selection of institutions and independent
consultants responsible for the execution of the diagnosis.   X
Execution of municipal diagnosis                             X
Information systematization                                  X
Presentation of results at a seminar, definition of specific
orientations for community awareness, faculty training,
focalized interventions and curricular design                X
Definition of criteria to determine the municipalities
where the focalized interventions will be implemented
and identification of control municipalities                 X
Definition of community awareness raising and faculty
training strategies.                                         X
Invitation and selection of institutions and independent
consultants responsible for awareness raising and faculty
training.                                                    X
Community awareness and faculty training                     X      X      X
Definition of focalized intervention strategies and
identification of beneficiary municipalities                 X
Establishment of coordination and management
mechanisms at the local and central level with the
participation of the Social Investment Fund, the Mirors'
Care Program, etc.                                           X      X      X
Implementation of selected focalized strategies based on
the selected municipalities and the identification of
control municipalities.                                      X      X      X
Follow up and municipal/national evaluation of the
awareness raising and training actions                       X      X
Mid term evaluation at the municipal level                          X
Adjustment of interventions based on the results of the
evaluation                                                          X
Municipal/national evaluation of the pilot experience and
definition of strategies for generalized application                       X
3 The Project's life be two and a half years: 6 months for the diagnosis, 22 months for the implementation of
different strategies and 2 months for final evaluation.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 52
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Resource Allocation
ESTIMATED
AMOUNT
Expressed in
DESCRIPTION OF COMPONENT                     U.S. Dollars      OBSERVATIONS
Quantitative and Qualitative Diagnostic Component                      It will be developed in
*  Hiring of three consultant teams (3 researchers and two  252,000.00 * 50 municipalities
assistants for a period of six months).
*  Printing of research materials.                         160,000.00
*  Moving expenses.                                         12,000.00
.  Publication and distribution of diagnosis                20,000.00
*  National Seminar                                         30,000.00
30,000.00
Faculty Training and Community Awareness Component                     It will be developed in
*  Hiring of consultant for the design and transfer of the  365,000.00 * 50 municipalities
Awareness Raising and Faculty Training Process
strategy.
*  Hiring of 6 departmental consultant teams for a period of  15,000.00
16 months
.   Moving expenses.                                       165,000.00
*  Expenses  for community  awareness  in  the  50          60,000.00
municipalities (Materials, Snacks and other items)
*  Expenses for faculty training in the 50 participating
municipalities.                                         85,000.00
40,000.00
Focalized Interventions Component                          240,000.00   It will be developed in
*  Faculty scholarships                                                 10           selected
*  Housing for faculty members                                         municipalities
*  Generation of Counterpart Funds for day care centers
*  Transportation
*  Technical support for the construction of diversified
branches at the district level
Administrative and Follow Up Expenses                      143,000.00 *
Project Coordinator for 24 months.                          46,800.00
Project Assistant for 24 months                             26,000.00
Administrative and transportation expenses                  70,200.00
PROJECT'S TOTAL                                          1,000,000.00
(*) Total amount per component, which includes contingencies.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 53
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Monitoring Indicatoirs
*  The Quantitative and Qualitative information about the 50 municipalities that were prioritized, is systematized
and recovered by the different units involved in the Project's execution.
*  The information system is established.
*  Awareness raising and training materials are distributed to target populations.
*  X awareness raising events are carried out by the Municipality during the Pilot Project.
*  X faculty training events carried out by the Municipality during the Pilot Project.
*  X parents participating in the awareness raising activities during the Pilot Project.
*   X faculty members participating in the training activities during the Pilot Project.
*   Girls enrollment in elementary school increases by ..% during the Pilot Project.
*  Girls permanence in elementary school increases by ..% during the Pilot Project.
*  Estimated cost-benefit of each Project component.
General Risks
*  The absence of inter-sectoral coordination and  coordination among the units of the Educational Reform,
especially those linked to the Educational Projects, which may give rise to a duplicity of efforts and the partial
attainment of the objectives for each component.
*  The lack of support and coordination among local entities - Municipal Governments, Popular Participation
Bodies and Entities that depend from this sector - may put the execution of each component at risk.
*  The failure to consider or the partial consideration of the results of the diagnosis on the part of the different units
under the VEIPS may generate inadequate awareness raising and training strategies or focalized interventions, as
well as postponing a more systematic handling of Gender Equity within the different components of the
Educational Reform, and at the pedagogical-curricular level in particular.
DESCRIPTION OF
COMPONENTS                          ADVANTAGES                       DISADVANTAGES
A. AWARENESS             It allows for an actual approximation to the The results are not
RAISING              educational community                         immediate.
It allows for a change of attitude within the It requires a continuous
educational community                         monitoring process.
It allows for a reflection, intervention and change
of interactions.
The impact is sustainable.
B. TRAINING              It promotes a Gender Approach methodology It requires a preparation
which improves the teaching-learning process.  phase in terms of
technical and operational
conditions.
It fosters quality education which allows for a It requires a continuous
positive insertion within the community.      monitoring process.
It facilitates teaching within a significant context.
The impact is sustainable.
C. FOCALIZED
INTERVENTIONS
*  Scholarships for female It generates confidence at the parents' level.  Lack of sustainability
faculty members                                                    throughout time.
*  Housing for female    It allows the communities to participate in the  Management and
faculty members      resolution of the girls' school enrollment and  coordination constitute a
permanence problems through local instances.  problem.
It allows to measure the Project's immediate
impact.
.  Generation of         It generates immediate changes                Management and



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                    Page A - 54
Country: BOLIVIA                                               Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Counterpart Funds for  It allows the communities to participate in the  coordination constitute a
day care centers       resolution of girls' school enrollment and       problem.
permanence problem through local instances.
It allows to measure the Project's immediate     A strong technical
impact.                                          support is required to
implement the Project
It decreases the girls' workload
It generates trust among the girls' parents.
*   Transportation         It allows to measure the Project's immediate     Lack of sustainability
impact.                                         throughout time.
It generates immediate changes                   Management and
coordination constitute a
problem.
A strong technical
*   Technical Support for                                                   support is required to
the construction of                                                     implement the Project
diversified branches at
the district level



Project Appraisal Document:                                                       Page A - 55
Country: BOLIVIA                                      Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Annex 3
A: Estimated Project Costs Summary
(US $ million)
Project Component    Local   Foreign   Total
PDEM                       78.57     0.00    78.57
Strengthening              15.34      1.16    16.50
SIF investments subproj.   15.00      0.00    15.00
PPF Financing               1.50     0.22      1.72
Rural girls subproject      1.00     0.00      1.00
Sec. and Ter. Educ.         0.50     0.00      0.50
Total    111.91     1.38   113.29
Total Baseline Cost       111.91      1.38    113.29
Unallocated                 2.71     0.00      2.71
Total Project Cost  =     114.62      1.38   116.00



Project Appraisal Document:                                                  Page A - 56
Country: BOLIVIA                                   Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
B: Preliminary Estimated Disbursement Structure
(US$ million)
COMPONENT             =        _______Bolivian Fiscal Year ______
(SubComp/Activity)       1,998    1,999    2,000    2,001   2,002   2,003   Total
PDEM                               0.00    9.17    22.00    21.70   19.70    6.00   78.57
Strengthening                      2.00    6.20     5.50     1.70    0.50    0.60   16.50
Mun-Nucleus                2.00    5.90     5.20     1.50    0.50    0.60   15.70
Strengthening
DDiE's Strengthening       0.00    0.30     0.30     0.20    0.00    0.00    0.80
FIS investments                    4.00    11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
Civil Works(*)             4.00    11.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00
Rural Girls subproject             0.00    0.50     0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00
Sec. And Ter. Education            0.00    0.50     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50
PPF FINANCING                      1.72    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.72
Contingencies                      0.00    1.00     1.00    0.40    0.11    0.20    2.71
TOTAL                              7.72    28.37    29.00    23.80   20.31    6.80  116.00
IDA FINANCING                      6.25    14.00    19.75    18.00   12.00    5.00   75.00
(*) This cost does not include the participation of the Municipalities



Project Appraisal Document:                                                        Page A - 57
Country: BOLIVIA                                       Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
C: Detailed Estimated Project Costs
COMPONENT                              l              Composition (%)
(SubComp/Activity)           IDA    KFW    GOB   Total  IDA    KFW    GOB
PDEM                          78.57   40.67   13.00   24.90  100%    52%    17%    32%
PDEM                       78.57   40.67   13.00   24.90  100%    52%    17%    32%
Civil Works               53.37   33.67   11.00    8.70  100%    63%    21%    16%
Civil works           48.03   30.30    9.90    7.83  100%    63%    21%    16%
Goods                  5.34    3.37    1.10    0.87  100%    63%    21%    16%
Pedagogic Process         15.50    7.00    2.00    6.50  100%    45%    13%    42%
Goods                  7.00    2.00    2.00    3.00  100%    29%    29%    43%
Incremental Salaries  5.50    3.50    0.00    2.00  100%    64%      0%    36%
Consultant services    3.00    1.50    0.00    1.50  100%    50%     0%    50%
Administration Costs       6.70    0.00    0.00    6.70  100%     0%     0%   100%
Civil works           5.70    0.00    0.00    5.70  100%     0%      0%   100%
Pedagogic process     1.00    0.00    0.00    1.00  100%     0%      0%   100%
Supervision                3.00    0.00    0.00    3.00  100%     0%     0%   100%
Strengthening                 16.50   13.74    0.00    2.76  100%    83%      0%    17%
Training & T.A. Mun         6.30    5.50    0.00    0.80  100%    87%      0%    13%
Training, T.A.to Nucleus    5.30    4.60    0.00    0.70  100%    87%      0%    13%
IEE Inventory               0.55    0.47    0.00    0.08  100%    85%      0%    15%
Consultant services            0.30    0.00    0.05  100%    86%     0%    14%
Goods                  0.20    0.17    0.00    0.03  100%    85%     0%    15%
Information SubSystems      0.55    0.47    0.00    0.08  100%    85%      0%    15%
Consultant services            0.30    0.00    0.05  100%    86%     0%    14%
Goods                  0.20    0.17    0.00    0.03  100%    85%     0%    15%
Monitoring and Evaluation    1.80    1.30    0.00    0.50  100%    72%     0%    28%
Administrative costs         1.00    0.60    0.00    0.40  100%    60%     0%    40%
DDiE's Strengthening        1.00    0.80    0.00    0.20  100%    80%      0%    20%
Transport Equipment        0.50    0.40    0.00    0.10  100%    80%      0%    20%
Communication Equip.       0.50    0.40    0.00    0.10  100%    80%     0%    20%
FIS investments (*)           15.00   15.00    0.00    0.00  100%   100%     0%      0%
Civil Works               13.00   13.00    0.00    0.00  100%   100%     0%      0%
Salaries and Travel Costs    2.00    2.00    0.00    0.00  100%   100%   0%      0%
Rural Girls subproject         1.00    0.85    0.00    0.15  100%    85%     0%    15%
Goods                     0.15    0.13    0.00    0.02  100%    85%      0%    15%
Services                  0.47    0.40    0.00    0.07  100%    85%      0%    15%
Adm. Costs                0.13    0.11    0.00    0.02  100%    85%      0%    15%



Project Appraisal Document:                                                        Page A - 58
Country: BOLIVIA                                       Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Focused Interventions     0.25    0.21    0.00    0.04  100%    85%      0%    15%
Secondary and Tertiary         0.50    0.50    0.00    0.00  100%   100%      0%     0%
Education
Consultants Sec. Edu.     0.25    0.25    0.00    0.00  100%   100%      0%      0%
Consultants Tert. Edu.    0.25    0.25    0.00    0.00  100%   100%      0%      0%
PPF FINANCING                  1.72    1.50    0.00    0.22  100%    87%      0%    13%
Unallocated                    2.71    2.71    0.00    0.00  100%   100%      0%     0%
TOTAL COSTS                   116      75      13      28  100%    65%    11%    24%
(*) This cost does not include the participation of the Municipalities



Project Appraisal Document:                                                 Page A - 59
Country: BOLIVIA                                  Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
D. Expenditures and Financing Structure
COMPONENT                   Expenditures                 Source Of Financing
(SubComp/Activity)       Total   Foreign    Local      IDA        KFW         GOB
PDEM                            78.57      0.00     78.57      40.67       13.00       24.90
PDEM                         78.57       0.00    78.57       40.67       13.00      24.90
Civil Works                 53.37      0.00     53.37      33.67       11.00        8.70
Civil works             48.03      0.00     48.03       30.30       9.90        7.83
Goods                    5.34      0.00      5.34        3.37       1.10        0.87
Pedagogics Process          15.50      0.00     15.50       7.00        2.00        6.50
Goods                    7.00       0.00     7.00        2.00       2.00        3.00
Incremental Salaries     5.50      0.00      5.50       3.50        0.00       2.00
Consultant services      3.00      0.00      3.00        1.50       0.00        1.50
Administration Costs         6.70      0.00      6.70        0.00       0.00        6.70
Civil works              5.70      0.00      5.70       0.00        0.00       5.70
Pedagogic process        1.00      0.00      1.00       0.00        0.00       1.00
Supervision                  3.00      0.00      3.00        0.00       0.00        3.00
Strengthening                   16.50      1.16     15.34       13.74       0.00        2.76
Training & T.A. Mun            6.30      0.00     6.30        5.50        0.00       0.80
Training, T.A.to Nucleus       5.30      0.00      5.30       4.60        0.00       0.70
IEE Inventory                 0.55       0.00     0.55        0.47        0.00       0.08
Consultant services      0.35       0.00     0.35        0.30       0.00        0.05
Goods                    0.20       0.00     0.20        0.17       0.00        0.03
Information SubSystems         0.55      0.41     0.14        0.47        0.00       0.08
Consultant services      0.35       0.26     0.09        0.30       0.00        0.05
Goods                    0.20       0.15     0.05        0.17       0.00        0.03
Monitoring and Evaluation      1.80      0.00      1.80       1.30        0.00       0.50
Administrative costs           1.00      0.00      1.00       0.60        0.00       0.40
DDiE's Strengthening           1.00      0.75     0.25        0.80        0.00       0.20
Transport Equipment          0.50      0.38      0.13        0.40       0.00        0.10
Communication Equip.         0.50      0.38      0.13        0.40       0.00        0.10
FIS investments (*)             15.00      0.00     15.00       15.00       0.00        0.00
Civil Works                 13.00      0.00     13.00       13.00       0.00        0.00
Salaries and Travel Costs    2.00      0.00      2.00       2.00        0.00        0.00
Rural Girls subproject           1.00      0.00      1.00       0.85        0.00        0.15
Goods                       0.15       0.00     0.15        0.13        0.00       0.02
Services                    0.47       0.00     0.47        0.40        0.00       0.07
Adm. Costs                   0.13      0.00     0.13        0.11        0.00       0.02
Focally Interventions       0.25       0.00     0.25        0.21        0.00       0.04



Project Appraisal Document:                                                               Page A - 60
Country: BOLIVIA                                            Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Secondary and Tertiary                 0.50        0.00        0.50         0.50          0.00          0.00
Education
Consultants Sec. Edu.             0.25        0.00       0.25          0.25          0.00         0.00
Consultants Tert. Edu.            0.25        0.00       0.25          0.25          0.00         0.00
PPF FINANCING                          1.72        0.22        1.50         1.50          0.00          0.22
Unallocated                            2.71        0.00        2.80         2.71          0.00          0.00
TOTAL COSTS                            116        1.38     114.62            75            13           28
(*) This cost does not include the participation of the Municpalities



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                Page A - 61
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Annex 4
Economic Analysis
There are three main sources of economic benefits in the project:
a)     With expected decreases in the drop-out rates, the number of years completed will increase,
thereby increasing earnings;
b)     With expected improvements in the quality of primary education, the expected returns to a given
year of schooling will increase; and
c)     With expected decreases in the repetition rates, less time spent in school will be required to achieve
a completed grade level, thereby reducing the opportunity cost of school
There are three main costs:
a)     The direct costs of the project;
b)     The maintenance costs that are required after the project ends for the infrastructure and equipment
financed under the project; and
c)     The incremental costs associated with having children stay in school instead of dropping out.
Methodology for measuring benefits and cost
The calculation of the benefits is based on a simulation model that provides estimates of the flow of students through
primary and secondary school both with and without the project. The initial numbers of students in each grade are
the 1996 matriculation figures provided by MECD. The dynamics in the school system are generated by what one
assumes about how the drop-out and repetition rates evolve over time. Without the project (that is, with the
Education Reform as it stands), the drop-out rates are assumes to decline smoothly from an average (across primary
grades) of 9.9 percent in 1998 to an average of 8 percent in 2015. The repetition rates are assumed to decline over
the same period from an average of 13.7 percent to 10 percent. With the project, drop-out rates are assumed to
decline to 5 percent on average and repetition rates are assumed to decline to 7 percent.
Benefits associated with increased years of schooling
In each case, it is possible to calculate the number of students who leave the system after one year, two years, etc. -
including those who graduate with 12 years of schooling. Taking the difference between the two sets of figures
provides an estimate of how the project could be expected to affect the pattern of school leaving. With the lower
drop-out rates with project, there will be fewer students who leave in the lower grades and (with some delay as the
students spend more time in school) there will eventually be more students leaving school after completing upper
grades.
The economic benefit of this altered pattern is measured by multiplying the difference in the number of students
leaving after a given grade by the net present value of the earnings that someone with that given years of education
could be expected to achieve over 20 years, discounted at a 5 percent real rate of interest. The earnings represent
median values of individuals with the given years of schooling and were allowed to increase with the person's
experience. The coefficient on experience was estimated from simple quantile regressions of the natural log of
wages on experience. The estimations were done separately for urban and rural samples and then aggregated to a
national figure by weighting the results by the proportion urban and rural. The urban sample is from the 1993
Encuesta Integrada de Hogares and the wage data were adjusted to account for real rate of growth and inflation
between 1993 and 1997. The rural sample is from the 1995 Encuesta de Impacto FIS. Because income data was not
available, per capita consumption data was used instead. The procedure followed was otherwise identical to the
urban case.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                  Page A - 62
Country: BOLIVIA                                              Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The relative values of net present value are given in the following table:
Grade     I    2        3       4        5       6       7       8        9       10      11       12
NPV       1     1.08    1.15    1.27    1.33    1.35    1.50    1.76    1.95    2.28    2.43    2.58
relative
to Grade
Benefits associated with improvements in the quality ofprimary education
For the purposes of the calculation of economic benefits, the impact of improved quality is assumed to be realized
once the students leave the school system. It is also assumed that it will take some time for the full impact of the
project to be realized. For those leaving in the first year, the benefits are assumed to be one fourth of the full impact
and are realized only by those leaving primary.
The value of the improved quality is estimated as a fraction of the difference between the net present value of wages
received by someone in the 40th percentile of wages compared to the 30'h percentile. In the calculation of the
economic rate of return, different values for the fraction were used - ranging from 0.2 to 0.4 of the difference
(uniformly distributed), with the mean being 0.3. The implicit assumption is that some proportion of the differences
in wages associated with individuals who have the same value of education is due to differences in the quality of
education they received. The difference in earnings between the 40' and 30th percentile represents a small part of the
range in values observed. Instead, one could have taken the difference between the 80' and 20"' percentile. Taking
30 percent of that difference results in a still smaller estimate of the value of the improved quality. Thus, the
assumed effect may be conservatively estimated. However, because this effect is applied to a large number of people
who pass through the system, the assumed quality effect is an important determinant of the calculated internal rate of
retum.
Benefits associated with lower opportunity cost
The project is assumed to result in a decrease of an average of 0.15 years of schooling for each completed grade
attained. The value of the savings in time is estimated by multiplying this fraction by the median annual earnings of
individuals with the given years of schooling. More complicated specifications could be assumed (with the extent of
savings depending on the number of grades completed); however, this effect is quantitatively not very important in
determining the final values of the economic rate of return.
Direct costs of the project
The direct costs of the project include the entire $115 million, disbursed according to the schedule provided in
Annex 3.
Maintenance costs
The maintenance costs were estimated during the course of project preparation at $1.2 million per year beginning at
the end of the project.
Costs associated with additional students
Because there will be a reduction in repetition rates, it is tempting to assume that there will be a cost savings with the
project. However, with the project there is also expected to be a decrease in the drop-out rate. The simulation model
allows one to calculate the combined effects of the decreases in the repetition and drop-out rates. There will, in fact,
be more students in each grade with the project (both in primary and secondary). Thus, there can be no savings.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                Page A - 63
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
The marginal costs of the additional students is likely to reflect mainly the variable costs of having more students in
the classroom. The investments in infrastructure and equipment are already included as part of the direct costs.
Nevertheless, some provision for increased fixed costs is incorporated in the estimated costs through an assumption
that the marginal costs are 30 percent of the unit costs. Were there no fixed costs to be taken into account, the
marginal costs would be closer to 5 percent of the unit costs.
Calculating internal rate of return
Monte carlo simulations
Because it is necessary to make numerous assumptions to arrive at estimates of the internal rate of return, monte
carlo simulations were undertaken. The key variables affecting the internal rate of return were assigned probability
distributions and 1000 runs were made with different draws from the given distributions. The following variables
were assumed to follow a normal distribution with standard deviation equal to one tenth of its mean:
a)     net present values of earnings for a given year of schooling;
b)     net present value in earnings between individuals in 40d and 30k" percentiles;
c)     annual earnings for a given year of schooling; and
d)     unit costs for primary and secondary schooling.
The following variables were assumed to follow a uniform distribution:
a)     the proportion of unit costs in primary and secondary required to cover marginal costs of additional
students (range from 10 to 40 percent with mean of 25 percent);
b)     the percentage of total student population covered by the project (range from 20 to 40 percent with
mean value 30 percent);
c)     the percentage of the difference between net present value of earnings between 40' and 30O
percentile attributable to quality differences (range from 20 to 40 percent with mean value 30 percent); and
d)     the fraction of the year on average saved with the reduction in repetition rates (range from .1 to .2
with a mean of . 15)
The results
The average value of the internal rate of return in the 1000 runs was 15 percent. The standard deviation was 4
percent and the percentiles are as follows:
Percentile                                      Value of IRR
0%                                              5%
10%                                             10%
20%                                             11%
30%                                             12%
40%                                             13%
50%                                             14%
60%                                             15%
70%                                             16%
80%                                             18%
90%                                             19%
100%                                            25%
Sensitivity of the results



Project Appraisal Document:                                                                Page A - 64
Country: BOLIVIA                                             Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Both benefits and costs were calculated from 1998 to 2020. Because the benefits are realized later than the costs, the
internal rate of return is sensitive to the number of years over which the calculations are done. Truncating costs and
benefits at the year 2015 reduces the mean IRR from 15 to 11 percent. Extending the calculation from 2020 to 2027
increase the IRR from 15 to 16.
The results are also sensitive to the assumption made about the percentage of the difference between net present
value between 40' and 30th percentiles attributable to quality differences (with a rank correlation of .81). With less
conservative assumptions about this effect, the internal rate of return estimates would be considerably higher. The
next most important assumption concerns the proportion of the total population covered by the project (with a rank
correlation of .49). The mean value of 30 percent for this assumption was based on an assumption that roughly 500
nucleos could be supported and that there are 9 schools in each nucleo and approximately 120 students in each
school. This yields a total number of students equal to approximately 36 percent of the public school primary
population. The next highest rank correlation was .17, with most of the values being less than .1.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 65
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Annex 5
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of works, goods and services as well as the contracting of consultants would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, revised in September 1997) the Guidelines
for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997, revised in September 1997), and the provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement; procurement arrangements are summarized in Table A.
The Ministry of Education (MECD) is preparing an Operational Manual (OM) to be follow for the Social Investment
Fund (SIF) and the Municipalities, which would include the procurement procedures, the standard bidding
documents to be used, and the financial and disbursement procedures. The OM would also provide information on
supervision, reporting and auditing requirements to ensure the transparent and efficient use of resources. SIF would
also use its revised Orientational Manual with the Municipalities.
The procurement of civil works and/or equipment and services under the Municipal Educational Development
Program (PDEM) would be carried out by the municipalities assisted by the SIF under standard contracts
acceptable to the Bank. The Operational Manual of SIF for the municipalities will include the procurement
procedures and standard bidding documents to be used in each case, including contracts to be awarded on the basis
of quotations. The M1_CD would support municipality participation in procurement by transferring resources to
beneficiary organizations (committees) to manage the procurement of goods and services for subprojects under
procedures, specifications and contract packaging acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Section III, Other
Methods of Procurement (paragraph 3.15, Municipal Participation in Procurement) of the Bank Guidelines. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank
shall be used.
Procurement of Municipal Educational Development Program Sub-Projects. The Project will support the design,
execution and supervision of civil works sub-projects, which includes construction, rehabilitation, remodeling,
upgrading, and school equipment of rural and urban schools. The municipalities will be responsible for executing
their PDEMs. Project funds will be transferred through SIF to the municipalities to execute the portion of the
PDEMs comprising infrastructure and educational equipment. The municipalities, assisted by SIF, would follow the
procurement procedures for contracting detailed in its revised OM approved by the Bank. The Bank would carry out
procurement audits annually to assure that Bank procedures are being followed.
Procurement of Civil Works. The types of civil works included in the Project would be procured as follows:
a)     International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will be used for contracts over US$500,000;
b)     National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be used for contracts between US$50,000 and US$500,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$53.1 million. NCB procedure must not discriminate against foreign bidders;
c)     Local Shopping (LS) will be used for contracts below US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$13.27 million.
Procurement of "Procesos Pedagogicos". For the portion of the PDEM comprising pedagogical process,
some municipalities will be assisted by the SIF and some by the MECD. Project funds will be transferred
through either SIF or MECD (depending on the municipality) (see Section 4 of the PAD) to the
municipalities to execute this portion of the PDEM.
The types of goods to be procured under the project consist of: (i) computers, ii) motos, iii) audiovisual
equipment, iv) training materials, v) school furniture, vi) educational materials, and vii)



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page A - 66
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
"fungible"materials. All the integrated Municipal Subprojects and other subprojects requested by the
beneficiaries would be eligible for financing according to criteria specified in the OM. Given the wide
range and small size of individual subprojects; packaging into large procurement groups would not be
feasible. The MECD would procure goods as follows:
(a)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be used for goods estimated to cost over US$150,000
equivalent;
(b)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be used for other goods estimated to cost between US$25,000
and US$150,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of US$7.22 million;
(c)    For smaller purchases to cost below US$50,000 equivalent each, would be awarded on the basis of
mechanisms for municipalities participation in procurement using three quotations up to an estimated
aggregate amount of US$0.33 million equivalent. The municipalities themselves would be responsible for
procurement actions on these contracts using procedures, specifications and contract packaging agreed with
the Bank and specified in the OM. The subprojects will emphasize community participation in project
execution and the use of appropriate local technologies.
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) located in La Paz would support subproject implementation. The MECD will
contract the ex-post evaluation of projects every six months that will include a review of the application of Bank
procurement procedures. A technical proposal and budget that must be reviewed and approved by MECD before
inviting bids would support all Municipalities Subprojects. SIF would use its Standard Regionalized Unit Prices
System and the Bank would review use of this procedure during the annual review of the project. All Municipality
subprojects would be subject to periodic supervisory visits by staff from MECD or independent supervisors
contracted by MECD as specified in the OM.
Procurement of TechnicalAssistance, Training andAudits. With the exception ofthe consultants to be contracted
for the inventory of infrastructure (which will be executed by the FIS), the MECD would procure all the consulting
services, which include technical assistance and/or training (capacity building activities), technical assistance for the
preparation of manuals and guidelines, supervision, ex-post evaluation of projects completed; audits, management
services, and training for Municipalities personnel, local governments, NGO representatives and municipal
participants in subprojects.
Consulting services would be procured following the Bank's Consultant Guidelines and using standard contracts.
The method of selection to be followed would be (i) Selection-Based-on Qualifications (firms and individuals) for
technical assistance and training; (ii) Selection-Under-a-Fixed-Budget for ex-post evaluations; and (iii) Quality-and-
Cost-Based Selection for audits. Expenditures for training as defined, would be made on the basis of administrative
procedures, acceptable to the Bank and included in the Orientation Manual.
Procurement Review. Prior review by the Bank would include (i) procurements arrangements to be in accordance
with Appendix 1, paragraph 2 of the Bank Guidelines; (ii) all procurement by ICB; (iii) the first three contracts of
works using NCB estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$500,000 each year; (iv) the first three contracts of
goods using NCB and Shopping each year, regardless of the amount; (v) the first three contracts of works below
US$50,000; and (vi) for consultants, the Bank would review terms of reference, as well as contracts over US$25,000
for individuals and US$50,000 for frms. The balance of civil works would be subject to ex-post review by the
Bank. To facilitate this process, the MECD would submit to the Bank at the beginning of each year, a plan for the
hiring of consultants with their terms of reference and estimated cost, as part of the Annual Operating Plan.
Prior review of approximately 35% of the loan is expected under these arrangements. Although the level of prior
review would be relatively low, this would be compensated for in several ways: (i) every six months, external
auditors, contracted by MECD under the loan, would conduct performance audits covering: technical,
environmental, managerial and procurement aspects on a sample of sub-projects satisfactory to the Bank as part of
the ex-post evaluation of subprojects; (ii) audit of procurement aspects would include physical audits and
procurement procedures used, so that the Bank can judge whether procurement implementation is satisfactory; (iii)



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 67
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
the project information and monitoring system would be used to compare costs of similar subprojects in order to
detect possible discrepancies which might indicate procurement problems and the need for further analysis; accuracy
of the data in the project information system will be checked through the audits; and (iv) Bank supervision missions
will conduct random reviews, including frequent field visits and reviews of procurement documentation.
Additionally, the systemic review of the three first contracts of each type each year would help monitor quality and
consistency in the application of Bank Guidelines and procurement procedures agreed for the project. Efforts would
be made for a procurement specialist to be part of the supervision missions, which are expected to be a minimum of
4 each of the first two years.
A Procurement Plan satisfactory to the Bank for the five-year life of the project would be elaborated before
negotiations and updated every year. A project launch workshop to familiarize the implementing unit with
procurement, disbursement, reporting and auditing requirements would be organized at an early stage in project
implementation.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of about four years (plus six months to disburse on
outstanding commitments) to be completed by June 30, 2003. The project closing date would be December 31, 2003
(six months after completion date).
Disbursements would be made once the respective contract between the beneficiaries and the MECD has been signed
and against the following categories of expenditure:
(a) PDEM Component (Civil works) - works including construction, rehabilitation, remodeling, upgrading, and
school equipment of rural and urban schools (72%)
(b) PDEM Component (Pedagogic process) - Goods: including computers, motorcycles, educational materials, and
"fungible" materials (100% of foreign expenditures or 87% of local expenditures).
(c ) PDEM Component (Pedagogic process) - Incremental salaries to nucleus personnel: consisting of payments for
additional hours of work to carry out activities for the duration of the Nucleus Education Project;
(d) PDEM Component (Pedagogic process) - Consultant services: consisting of individual services and technical
assistance related to the carrying out of the Nucleus Educational Project;
(e) Consultant Services - including individual services, technical assistance and training for capacity building not
included in Nucleus Educational Projects, supervision and monitoring, and ex-post evaluations (100%).
(f) Operating Costs - including administrative services and costs related to project execution (87%).
(g) Audits - Project financial audits by external auditors (100%)
The Bank does not finance taxes.
Retroactive Financing:
Eligible expenditures may not exceed 10 percent of the loan amount and must be made after project identification
begins and within 12 months before the expected date of loan signing.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 68
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Disbursements would be made on the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring
prior review by the Bank, as indicated in the Table A; and contracts whose value would be raised above the prior
review limits as a result of amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements would be granted against SOEs
for which supporting documents would be maintained by MECD, and be available to the Bank for review. All other
disbursement requests will be fully documented as indicated above. In addition, other technical and financial data
regarding subprojects will be available from MECD database.
Special account:
Two Special Accounts would be opened at the Central Bank of Bolivia with an initial deposit of US$2.0
million for the account to be managed by the MECDNEIPS and of US$3.0 million for the account to be managed by
the SIF. These amounts correspond to about four months of expenditures under the project. Requests for
replenishment of the special accounts to be managed by the MECD/VEIPS will follow conditions set forth in a
subsidiary agreement between MHAC and MECD. Requests for replenishment of the special account for the
infrastructure activities to be managed by the SIF will follow a subsidiary agreement among MHAC, MECD and
SIF. The special accounts would be replenished monthly at the Borrower's request, but not less frequently than.
every three months, or whenever one-third of the authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever comes first.
The MECD and the SIF will be responsible for preparing withdrawal requests and in charge of their respective
special account. Disbursement will be based on Statement of Expenditures for those contracts which do not require
prior review. Documentation supporting SOEs will be retained by MECD and the SIF in Bolivia and made available
for examination by Bank staff during project supervision missions.
Audits:
The project's accounting records implemented by both the MECD and the SIF shall be audited on an annual
basis, subject to international auditing standards by independent auditors and under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank. Certified copies of the audit reports will be furnished to the Bank within six months after the close of the
government's fiscal year. The audit reports will include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against
certified SOEs. In addition, auditors working with the municipalities would undertake semi-annual physical audits
of a sample of municipalities subprojects financed by the MECD and by the SIF, with the size of the sample
acceptable to the Bank, following acceptable accounting norms and procedures. Auditors would review individual
contracts, ascertain compliance with terms of contracts, inspect progress of works and reconcile the physical
progress with financial expenses incurred, and verify that procurement guidelines are being respected; their findings
will be included in the semi-annual progress reports presented to the Bank and their recommendations incorporated
in the Annual Operating Plan.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 69
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Table A: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements
_                  |                   Procurement Methods
Expenditure Category             ICB           NBC   Other(a             N.B.F.(b)  Total
(1) Civil Works                                          53.10    13.27                        66.37
Civil Works                                          37.34    9.33 (1)                     46.67
(2) Pedagogical Processes
Goods                                   1.00 (2)      5.67     0.33 (3)                     7.00
1.00          0.90     0.10                         2.00
Incremental salaries for school                                5.50                         5.50
nucleus personnel                            =                 3.50_3.5
I                                1            ~~~~~~~~~~~3.501               3.50
Consultant Services                                            3.00 _     =                 3.00
1.50                         1.50
(3) Consultant Services (technical             _                  15.32                        15.32
Assistance, training and workshops
laudits)                                      =               13.12 (4)(5)(6)              13.12
(4) Goods                                                 1.55                                  1.55
=___ =_           1.27                                  1.27
(5) Operating Costs                                               12.831                       12.83
______          _2.71    ==                             2.71
(6) Refunding of PPF                                               1.72                         1.72
. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           1.5                          1.5
(7) Unallocated                                                    2.71                         2.71
_____________________________                  ~~ ~~2.71                    2.71
TOTAL                                   1.00         60.32   54.68                0.00   116.00
_____________________________           1.00        39.51    34.491               0.00    75.00
(a) See Procurement Plans for Details (Tables D and E)
(b) Not Bank-financed; Figures in Bold are amounts financed by the IDA Credit
(1) Procedures for municipality participation in procurement in accordance with the Orientation Manual;
including municipality shopping, force account and direct contracting and consultant qualification for
capacity building.
(2) ICB for computers, motorcycles and communication equipment.
(3) Local Shopping
(4) Consultant Qualifications (individuals and firms) fixed budget for ex-post evaluations.
(5) Administrative costs related to training.
(6) QCBS



Project Appraisal Document:                                                   Page A - 70
Country: BOLIVIA                                    Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
TABLE B. THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT
METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure Category      Contract Value       Procurement Method     Contracts subject to
(Therehold US$                                 Prior Review/
Thousands)                                     Estimated
Total Value subject to
prior review
(US$ million)
PDEM                  > US$ 50.000            NCB                    First three contracts
Civil Works           < US$ 500.000           NCB                    each year
> US$ 500.000          ICB                     All
Procesos Pedag6gicos
Goods                 >US$ 150.000           ICB                     All
> US$ 25.000           NCB                     First three contracts
<US$ 150.000           NCB                     each year
< US$ 50.000           National Shopping       First three contracts
each year
Consultants Services  > US$ 50.000            Fixed Budget           All
Technical Assitance                           Consultant
Qualifications (firms)   All
>US$ 25.000            Consultant              Al
Qualifications
(individuals)
Audits                All                     QCBS                   All
Total Value of contracts subject to prior review  US$ 25 million (34%)



Project Appraisal Document:                                                  Page A - 71
Country: BOLIVIA                                   Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Table C. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Amount of the Credit        % of Expenditures
Allocated                to be Financed
(in US$ M.)
For Educational Subprojects
(1) Works                                             - 100% of FIS share.
(Supervision and                                  72% of FIS subprojects
Administration Costs)            46.67
For Educational Subprojects
(2) Goods                             3.27            - 100% of FIS share
For all other parts of the
Project
100% foreign expenditures
87% local expenditures
For Educational Subprojects
(3) Consultants                       14.62           - 100% of FIS share
For all other parts of the
project 87%
87% of expenditures
(4) Incremental Operating             0.71            incurred on or prior to Dec.
Costs                                                 31, 1999; 60% of
expenditures after Dec. 31,
1999 and until Dec 31, 1999
and 40% thereafter
(5) Incremental                       3.50            100% of FIS share under
Remuneration                                          each Educational
Subproject
(6) Salaries and travel costs         2.0             75% of expenditures
of FIS staff                                          incurred before expected
loan signing and after July
16,1997
(7) Refunding of PPF                  1.5             87%
(8) Unallocated                       2.71
TOTAL                                75.00



Project Appraisal Document:                                                             Page A - 72
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Annex 6
EDUCATION QUALITY AND EQUITY STRENGTHENING PROJECT
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage) *
128,0        120,0
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage) *
- Time taken to prepare the project (months)4         24 mo         24 mo
- First Bank mission (identification)                07/28195       07/28/95
- Appraisal mission departure                        02/04/98       04/13/98
- Negotiations                                       04/20/98       05/07/98
- Planned Date of Effectiveness                      10/ /98         1  1
Prepared by: Project Preparation Unit of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports.
Preparation assistance: Dutch Trust Fund; and PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included: John Newman (Task Manager); Luis Pisani (Former Manager SSU)
Constance Corbett (Senior Economist, LCHSD); Patricia Alvarez, (Economist); Miriam Cespedes, (Procurement
Specialist); Maria Lucy Giraldo (Procurement Specialist); Jennifer Leach, (Economist); Harry Patrinos, (Human
Resources Economist); Aracelly Woodall, (Administrative Support); Marines Zambrana, (Administrative
Support/Secretary)
Consultants that worked for the Project: Cristian Cox, (Education Specialist); Robert Mc Meekin, (Economist); Luis
Secco, (Architect); Anita Artaza (Operations Assistance); Guido Guerrero (Education Specialist); Rafael Vargas
(Finacial Specialist).
Members of the Project Preparation Unit (UPP) that worked for the Project: Cristina Pareja (UPP, Director) Enrique
Velazco (Ex Director UPP); Daniela Carriquiriborde, (Education Specialist); Patricia Vargas, (Architect); Maria Lily
Maric, (Education Quality Specialist); Sergio Criales, (Administrative and Costs Specialist); Cecilia Ortiz,
(Secretary).
4 PPF signed by the Govemment of Bolivia, dated September 4, 1996
* IEPS



Project Appraisal Document:                                                           Page A - 73
Country: BOLIVIA                                         Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
ANNEX 7
Documents in the Project File
A. Proposal For Reform/Project Design
Al.    Cajias, Beatriz. Informe Final: Fortalecimiento Municipal. La Paz, Junio 1997.
A2.   Castell6n, Mirtha. Informe Final: SubSistema de Informaci6n Municipal para la Planificaci6n de la
Infraestructura Educativa. La Paz, Junio 1997.
A3.   ETARE. Reforma Educativa: Propuesta. La Paz, Agosto 1993.
A4.    Kellert, Elvia: Justificaci6n, Base Conceptual y Caracteristicas Generales de la Modalidad de Fondos
Concursables. La Paz, Agosto 1997.
A5.   MECD: Plan de Capacitacion para el Desarrollo de Proyectos Educativos, 1998 - 2002. 1997
A6.    Millan, Omar: Informe Final: Inventario Nacional/Municipal de Infraestructura Educativa. La Paz, Julio
1997.
A7.   Contreras Manuel y Villareal Rodrigo: Evaluaci6n de Costo Beneficio del Proyecto de "Fortalecimiento de
la Calidad y la Equidad de la Educaci6n". La Paz, Septiembre de 1997
A8.   Velazco Enrique y Carriquiriborde Daniela (UPP): Diseffo Conceptual y Estructura de los Estudios
Complementairios para la Elaboraci6n del Proyecto "Fortalecimiento de la Calidad y la Equidad de la
Educaci6n". La Paz, Noviembre de 1996
A9.   Criales Sergio y Velazco Enrique (UPP): Estudio de Costos de Infraestructura: Determinaci6n de los
Costos Brutos de Aula y de Costos Unitarios y por M6dulo a partir de las Experiencias del Fondo de
Inversi6n Social. La Paz, Junio de 1997
AIO.  Velazco Enrique y Carriquiriborde Daniela (UPP): Estrategia General de Capacitaci6n, Asistencia Tecnica e
Implementacion del Proyecto "Fortalecimiento de la Calidad y la Equidad de la Educaci6n". La Paz, Junio
de 1997
Al l.   Vargas Patricia: Propuesta Arquitect6nica para la Infraestructura Escolar de la Reforma Educativa. La Paz,
Agosto de 1997
A12.   Trujillo Miguel: Proyecto de Ingenieria, Diseflos Electrico y Sanitario y Analisis de Costos del Proyecto
Arquitect6nico Arquitect6nico para la Infraestructura Escolar de la Reforma Educativa. La Paz, Septiembre
de 1997
A13.  Nucinsky Nicole y Ayata Liberth (UNSTP) Proyectos Educativos,-Marzo 1998
B. Legal Framework
Bl.    Constituci6n Politica del Estado (CPE). Ley N° 1585, 12 de Agosto de 1994.
B2.    Ley Organica de Municipalidades, 10 de Enero de 1985.
B3.    Ley de Descentralizacion Administrativa (LDA). Ley N° 1654, 28 de Julio de 1995.
B4.    Reglamento Organizacion del Poder Ejecutivo (ROPEND). Decreto Supremo N° 24206, 29 de Diciembre
de 1995.
B5.    Ley de Participaci6n Popular (LPP). Ley N° 1551, 20 de Abril de 1994 y Ley N° 1702 del 17 de Julio de
1996.
B6.    Reglamento de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular (RLPP). Decreto Supremo N°23813, 30 de Junio de 1994.
B7.    Reglamento de las Organizaciones Territoriales de Base (ROTB). Decrreto Supremo N°23858, 9 de
Septiembre de 1994.
B8.    Reglamentacion Complementaria de las Leyes de Participacion Popular y Descentralizaci6n Administrativa.
Decreto Supremo N°24447, 20 de Diciembre de 1996.
B9.    Ley de Reforma Educativa. Ley N0 1565, 7 de Julio de 1994.
B10.   Proyecto de Ley de Modificaciones y Ampliaciones a la Ley de Reforma Educativa (en estudio en el
Congreso Nacional).
Bl 1.   Reglamento de Organos de Participaci6n Popular. Decreto Supremo N° 23949, 10 de Febrero de 1995.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                            Page A - 74
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
C. Institucional Transformation and Development
Cl.    C.G.E. Coparticipaci6n Tributaria en el Marco de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular. 1993-95.
C2.    Direcci6n Departamental de Educaci6n (Potosi). Informaci6n Matricular. 1996.
C3.    Direcci6n Departamental de Educaci6n (Beni). Bibliotecas Escolares. 1996.
C4.    Direcci6n Departamental de Educaci6n (Tarija). Personal Docente, Matriculaci6n y Nucleos Escolares.
1996.
C5.    Direcci6n Departamental de Educaci6n (Pando). Personal Docente. Matriculaci6n y Nficleos Escolares.
1996.
C6.    Direcci6n Distrital de Educaci6n (Coroico). Matricula 1996.
C7.    DGII. Resuimenes Mensuales de Coparticipaci6n por Municipio. 1995-1996.
C8.    FIS. Poifticas, Estrategias y Criterios de Intervenci6n del FIS.
C9.    FIS. Manuales de Evaluaci6n, Evaluaci6n, Adjudicaciones y Seguimiento
CIO.   FIS. Estudio de Tiempo de los Proyectos.
Cl l.  FIS. Montos aportados por el FIS en escuelas por Departamento, 1996.
C12.   FIS. Montos aportados por el FIS en escuelas de la ciudad de El Alto. 1996.
C13.   FIS. Montos programados para Infraestructura Educativa. 1997.
C14.   FNDR. Lista de Municipios que reciben financiamiento. 1996.
C15.   FSE. Un puente entre la crisis y la reactivaci6n.
C16.  INE. Educaci6n en Cifras. 1993.
C17.   PNUD. Sostenibilidad y Desarrollo Humano - Cochabamba.
C18.   PNUD. Informe de Desarrollo Humano de la ciudad de Santa Cruz. 1996.
Cl 9.   Subsecretaria de Presupuesto. Recursos de Participaci6n Popular a Gobiemos Municipales por
Departamento, 1996.
C20.   Subsecretaria de Presupuesto. Coparticipaci6n Tributaria por Municipio. 1997.
C2 1.   Subsecretaria de Presupuesto. Relaci6n de Gastos por Municipio. 1995.
C22.   Subsecretaria de Inversi6n Publica. Ejecuci6n Presupuestaria en Educaci6n. 1987.
C23.   Subsecretaria de Inversi6n Puiblica. Inversi6n Publica Municipal en Educaci6n. 1994-95-96.
C24.   SNPP. Bolivia en Cifras (medio magnetico). 1996.
C25.   SNPP. Normas referidas a Gobiemos Municipales. 1995.
C26.   PROADE/GTZ. La InformAtica en los Gobiernos Municipales.
C27.   SNE. Mapa Educativo de Bolivia. 1993.
C28.   SNE. Registro de Personal Docente y Administrativo. 1994.
C29.   SNE. Resumen de Docentes, Matriculas por provincias y distritos. 1996.
C30.   SNE/SEPPS/UNPDI. Organizaci6n del Sistema Educativo en Nu.cleos y Redes. La Paz, 1996.
C3 1.   SNE/SEPPS/LJNPDI. Informaci6n Estadistica del los 9 Departamentos de Bolivia y Distritos de Gesti6n.
Septiembre 1996.
C32.   SNE/SEPPS/UNPDI. Manual de Elaboraci6n del Plan Operativo Anual de Educaci6n. 1997.
C33.   SNE/SEPPS/1JNPDI. Sistema de Planificaci6n Educativa Descentralizado. Marzo 1997.
C34.   UDAPSO. Indicadores de Asistencia Escolar. 1996.
D. Pedagogical Quality Improvement
Dl.    Reglamento de Organizaci6n Curricular. Decreto Supremo NO 23950, 1° de Febrero de 1995.
D2.    Reglamento de Estructura Administrativa Curricular. Decreto Supremo N°23951, 1° de Febrero de 1995.
D3.    Reglamento Carreras en el Servicio de Educaci6n Puiblica. Decreto Supremo N°23968, 24 de Febrero de
1995.



Project Appraisal Document:                                                              Page A - 75
Country: BOLIVIA                                           Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
E. Especial Issues
El.    Banco Mundial. Misi6n de Revisi6n Anual. Proyecto de Reforma Educativa. Ayuda Memoria. Octubre
1995.
E2.    Banco Mundial. Misi6n de Revisi6n Anual. Proyecto de Reforma Educativa. Ayuda Memoria. Septiembre-
Octubre 1996.
E3.    CEDOIN. ,Quien le teme a la Reforma Educativa. La Paz, Ed. APL, 1995.
E4.    ILDIS/SEPPS. Foro del Programa de Reforma Educativa. La Paz, Julio de 1997.
E5.    MDH/SNE/SEPPS. Reforna Educativa: El Camino del Cambio. Informe de Avance - Primer Semestre
1996



Project Appraisal Document: ANNEXES                                                      Page A - 76
Country: BOLIVIA                                            Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
Annex 8
BOLIVIA: Statement of Loans and Credits
Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
As of September 30, 1997
(in Millions of US Dollars)
Difference between expected and actual disbursements a/
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Project       Credit  | Fiscal |
ID           No.    | Year              Purpose           | IBRD       IDA   I Cancelins   Undisbrd    Orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev 0
Number of Closed Loans/Credits: 55
Active Loans
BO-PE-6179    IDA 21340   1990    PRIVATE ENTRP DEV                 0.00      16.10       0.00         1.00    - .33         0.00
BO-PE-6152    IDA 21190   1990    EASTERN LOWLNDS:                  0.00      35.00       4.62         5.25     7.85         3.06
NTRL
BO-PE-6166   IDA 20920   1990    INTEGRATED HLTH DEV                0.00      20.00        0.00        4.43     2.22         0.00
BO-PE-6189   IDA 22790   1991    PUB FIN MGMT II                    0.00      11.30        0.00        2.43     1.73         0.00
BO-PE-6188    IDA 22160   1991    TECHNOLOGY DEV                    0.00      21.00        0.00        1.24      .81         0.00
BO-PE-6172    IDA 21870   1991    WTR SUPPLY SWRGE                  0.00      35.00       0.00         1.53      .62         0.00    _
BO-PE-6180   IDA 23950   1992    RD MAINT                           0.00      80.00        0.00      38.32    35.73          0.00
BO-PE-6153    IDA 23220   1992    AGRO EXPORT DEV PROG              0.00      22.50       0.00         8.42     7.35         0.00
BO-PE-6200    IDA 25320   1993    SOC INVEST FUND II                0.00      40.00        0.00        8.26     7.43         0.00
BO-PE-6196    IDA 25310   1993    INTEGRATED CHILD DEV              0.00      50.70        0.00      41.04    42.30          0.00
BO-PE-6190    IDA 25650   1994    MUNICIPAL DEV                     0.00      42.00        0.00      25.20    25.36          0.00
BO-PE-6197   IDA 27420   1995    LAND ADMINISTRATION                0.00      20.40        0.00       14.36    15.88         0.00
BO-PE-6205    IDA 27050   1995    JUDICIAL, REFORM                  0.00      11.00        0.00        7.85     8.36         0.00
BO-PE-6181    IDA 26500   1995    EDUCATION REFORM                  0.00      40.00        0.00      20.80    19.90          0.00
BO-PE-37005   IDA 26470   1995    REGULATORY REF & CAP              0.00      14.70        0.00        1.98     1.21         0.00
BO-PE-6206    IDA 28060   1996    RURAL WTR SANIT                   0.00      20.00       0.00        15.43    14.51         0.00
BO-PE-6186    IDA 28050   1996    ENV. IND. & MINIG                 0.00      11.00        0.00        9.38    10.25         0.00
BO-PE-6191    IDA 27900   1996    POWER SCTR REF TA                 0.00       5.10        0.00        2.55     2.83         0.00
BO-PE-34606   IDA 27890   1996    FIN MRKTS PENS REF                0.00       9.00       0.00        2.27     2.81          0.00
BO-PE-6202    IDA 27720   1996    RURAL COMMUNITIES                 0.00      15.00        0.00        7.40     9.07         0.00



Project Appraisal Document: ANNEXES                                                    Page A - 77
Country: BOLIVIA                                          Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
BO-PE-6178   IDA 27620  1996    HYDROC SEC REF & CAPT             0.00      10.64       0.00        1.53     2.51         2.50
BO-PE-6173    IDA 27610  1996    CAPITALIZATION PROG               0.00     50.00       0.00        9.29    19.76        12.85
BO-PE-401 10  IDA N0330  1998    PUB FIN DECEN&ACCT                0.00     15.00       0.00       14.78     0.00         0.00
TOTAL                                                              0.00    595.44       4.62      244.74   238.16        18.41
Active Loans                  Closed Loans                       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                       347.67                         883.09                    1,230.76
of which has been repaid:                               0.00                         271.90                      271.90
Total now held by IBRD and IDA                        590.82                         592.77                    1,183.59
Amount sold                                             0.00                           .05                          .05
of which repaid                                     0.00                           .05                          .05
Total Undisbursed                                     244.74                           .79                       245.53
a. Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review or Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS= Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U
=Unsatisfactory, HU = Highly Unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901),
August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
C: pad60 May 15, 1998



