Report No. PIC3077
Project Name                   Bolivia-Education Quality and Equity...
Improvement Project
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Education
Project ID                     BOPA6204
Borrower                       Republic of Bolivia
Implementing Agency            National Secretariat of Education
Av. Arce 2408
Tel.:   (591 2) 371-311;
Fax:   (591 2) 378-756
PID Preparation Date           November 28, 1995
Tentative Appraisal Date       October 1996
Tentative Board Date           January 1997
1.   Background.  The Bolivian Government is carrying out an imaginative
and forward-looking multi-sectoral reform program, which, if successful,
will transform the country. It aims to foster private and social
investment by withdrawing the state from productive activities while
strengthening the public sector+s capacity to make policy, regulate,
enforce laws, and execute social programs. An overarching theme is the
incorporation of the country±s poor indigenous majority±which has in
large part been excluded from the opportunities afforded by past
economic growth and stability±into the economic mainstream. These
reforms offer the best hope of shortening the country±s development path
by accelerating economic growth, and by freeing resources to expand
programs in education, basic health, potable water and sanitation.
2.   An important element of the Government+s strategy is education
reform. Low coverage and poor quality of education are major causes of
Bolivia+s deep-seated structural poverty.   About 20t of the adult
population is illiterate and at least 55t is functionally illiterate,
including many who finished primary and even secondary school. Average
educational attainment is four years of school; only 44t of the
population has completed primary school. Only one percent of girls
enrolled in first grade eventually finish high school. Particularly
affected are indigenous populations whose mother tongue is not Spanish.
Low access to appropriate education for such groups reduces achievement,
leads to higher-than-average repetition and drop-out rates, resulting in
low wages and poor access to labor markets. Moreover, the education
system has been characterized by an inefficient and centralized
administration, poorly paid and badly trained teachers, and acute
scarcity of teaching materials, and many existing schools are in severe
disrepair, creating hazardous conditions in some cases, and most lack
basic equipment and sanitary facilities; about 70 percent of existing
infrastructure is estimated to require replacement or rehabilitation.
The education reform program initiated in 1994 is designed to
restructure and strengthen the education system. Its objectives include
increasing participation in educational decisions at the community



level, restructuring the National Secretariat of Education (SNE) and
limiting its role to establishing normative guidelines, delegating
administration to local entities and providing training to strengthen
their capacity, rationalizing expenditures at all levels, including
tertiary education, providing training and appropriate incentives for
teachers, and rehabilitation of limited administrative infrastructure.
An ongoing project, partly financed by an International Development
Association (IDA) credit, is supporting the first phase of the education
reform program, which is designed to improve the pedagogical quality and
strengthen the capacity of: (i) the SNE to set policies and guidelines;
and (ii) the education system to deliver education services effectively
and efficiently. The proposed project would complement the broad
changes already initiated under the ongoing project by addressing the
need for physical infrastructure for basic education and by deepening
and extending specific aspects of the quality- and institutional-
strengthening activities targeted at low-income populations in urban and
rural areas.
3.   Project Rationale.   The ongoing Education Reform Project aims to
transform the educational system and improve educational quality and
efficiency at primary level, through a package of institutional
strengthening measures combined with development and provision of basic
pedagogical inputs. By providing basic school infrastructure as well as
deepening the institutional strengthening components under the ongoing
project, the proposed project would complement this ongoing process of
educational reform, and would lay the basis for introducing improvements
in preschool and secondary education. Targeted at low-income
populations in urban and rural areas, the primary education
infrastructure component of the proposed project would help to improve
equity by facilitating access for poor populations. The combined impact
of the two projects is expected to be improved learning achievement in
poor rural and urban areas, reduced dropout and repetition rates, and
increased completion rates and student-teacher ratios. Continuation of
the process of Popular Participation, as well as the specific provisions
for community participation under the education reform, will provide
both feedback on progress achieved, both institutionally and
pedagogically, and will help to consolidate the gains, making the
process irreversible.
4.   Project Objectives.   The main objective of the proposed project is
to provide complementary support for the Government+s education reform,
focusing on rural and low-income urban areas. Specifically, the project
would aim to: (a) improve and expand infrastructure in primary and
secondary levels; (b) complement ongoing quality and equity improvement
efforts and introduce appropriate information technology in selected
primary and secondary schools; (c) develop pilot projects and study
alternative strategies for the expansion of pre-school and secondary
education; and (d) reinforce the decentralization of education in both
institutional and pedagogical terms, in keeping with the Government+s
policy.
5.   Project Description.   (a) Infrastructure:  The infrastructure
component would include: (i) construction of 40 new schools and
remodeling and expansion of 50 schools located in poor urban areas; and
(ii) construction of 150 new schools and remodeling and expansion of 100
- 2-



rural schools. (b) Quality Improvement: The following subcomponents
have been identified relating to improving the quality and equity of
education at the primary and secondary levels: (i) funding, on a
competitive basis, of education improvement projects, to be designed and
implemented by individual schools; (ii) provision of information
technology to selected primary and secondary schools through the
provision of computer equipment, software, radio and multimedia
technology; (iii) complementary funding of production and distribution
of learning modules for primary and secondary education as initiated
under the first project; (iv) complementary in-service teacher training
on the pedagogical aspects of the Reform; (v) organization and financial
support for an external expert support network for research, design and
training activities relating to key educational problems confronted by
the teachers in implementing the Reform; and (vi) design and
implementation of pilot projects in the second cycle of pre-school
education, and selected studies to provide an analytical basis for
policy reform and improvement of secondary education. (c) Institutional
Strengthening: The following subcomponents will strengthen and extend
activities initiated under the ongoing project: (i) management training
activities focusing on the district, school nucleus and individual
school levels that will not be covered in depth by the ongoing project;
(ii) strengthening sector management capacity including development of
national training capacity that does not now exist within Bolivia;
(iii) dissemination of information to explain and build support for the
education reform and strengthen consensus on a continuing basis;
(iv) equipment for sector administration, including vehicles, to enable
pedagogical advisors to visit schools, and communication links and
equipment for local-level sector management in remote areas;
(v) strengthening of the management information system initiated under
the ongoing project, especially to focus on providing information on
educational quality and progress of the Reform to individual schools and
communities; and (vi) technical assistance+including national and
international advisors+which would cut across all the activities above
as well as provide continuing technical advice and support through the
middle and later phases of the Reform implementation.
6.   Project Cost and Financing.   Probable cost has been estimated at
about US$128.0 million, to be financed with bilateral donor
contributions of about US$45.7 million, IDA financing of about US$50.0
million (including a PPF of US$0.75 million), national Government
counterpart of about US$9.8 million, and municipal counterparts
(infrastructure matching grant) totaling about US$22.5 million.
7.   Expected Benefits.   Along with the ongoing project, the main
benefit of the project would be greater access and quality of education
for the low-income rural and urban Bolivian students that now suffer
from extremely low quality of education. This benefit would be felt
through greater productivity and higher earnings of school graduates and
through an increased ability to produce the human resources essential
for Bolivia+s economic growth and competitiveness. Through contribution
to ongoing efforts to improve efficiency of sector management,
especially management of the teaching force, and through support for
educational quality improvement that would result in reduced repetition,
the project would help to restrain the growing demand on fiscal
resources.
-3-



8.   Project Implementation.   The National Secretary of Education, under
the Ministry of Human Development, would have overall responsibility for
project implementation. Day-to-day management of the project would be
the responsibility of the Education Reform Management Team (ERMT),
funded by the ongoing project. The ERMT will implement the
institutional strengthening and quality improvement components and
coordinate the execution of the infrastructure component, which will be
implemented by the Social Investment Fund (FIS).
9.   Sustainability.   Prior to initiating the education reform program,
the Government undertook an extensive study its financial feasibility
and sustainability. On the assumption that education+s share of public
finance would rise from less than 20t to approximately 24t by 2005 and
that economic growth would average 5t during the period, it will be
possible to finance the reform on a sustainable basis. The largest
project component, infrastructure, would not generate significant
incremental recurrent costs and would be financed through matching
grants provided by municipal governments and Grassroots Territorial
Organizations (OTBs) using resources distributed to them under the
Popular Participation Law (PPL). The other components do not entail
significant incremental recurrent costs.
10. Lessons Learned. Recent IDA experience in Bolivia shows that
borrower ownership of the project is important to implementation success
and that credit effectiveness is delayed by a large number of conditions
as well as by the slow Congressional approval process. Drawing on
experience gained in the preparation and early implementation of the
Education Reform Project, the proposed project will be prepared by a
Borrower Project Preparation Unit within the Education Reform Management
Team under the SNE.    Leadership from IDA will be provided through the
LA3HR Social Sector Unit located in the Bolivia Resident Mission.
Project preparation would entail close coordination with the FIS, which
would play a key role in contracting and supervising school construction
and rehabilitation under the project. Experience under two credits in
support of the FIS has demonstrated the utility of a specialized and
experienced agency in facilitating financing for infrastructure
operations in coordination with local authorities, allowing the
ministries to focus on developing their normative role.
11. Poverty Category. The project is primarily under the human
resource development POC. The project is part of the Government core
poverty alleviation program. The project will give priority to the
educational needs of children of the lowest income groups of the
population, especially through school remodeling and construction in
rural and poor urban areas and the provision of textbooks, libraries and
teaching materials.
12. Environmental Aspects. The project does not present environmental
risks. Since the project consists of institutional development,
education quality improvement and rehabilitation of school
infrastructure and maintenance, it would have limited impact on the
environment. However, the possibility of environmental impact
associated with the infrastructure component will be addressed in the
design and approval criteria of investment projects.
- 4 -



13.  Program Objective Category.    The project+s main objective is to
improve access and educational quality for the poor, especially for
indigenous groups and women in rural areas. By raising levels of
schooling and improving educational achievement, it aims to improve
opportunities of marginalized groups in the labor market. It is
therefore classified under the Poverty Reduction and Human Resource
Development category.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



