Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3096-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 20, 1998
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 20, 1998 between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower’s Law No. 1551 of April 20, 1994 (the Popular Participation 
Law) sets forth the scope and the agents of the popular participation process, the 
jurisdiction of the Borrower’s municipal governments and the transfer to such 
governments of the physical infrastructure for public education services;
(C)
the Borrower’s Law No. 1565 of July 4, 1994 (the Educational Reform Law) 
establishes the basis and goals of the Borrower’s education policy, and the objectives 
and the structure of the Borrower’s national education system; and
(D)
the Borrower’s Law No. 1654 of July 28, 1995 (the Administrative 
Decentralization Law) provides for the administrative decentralization of the 
Borrower’s Executive Branch at the departmental level through the delegation of 
technical-administrative powers to the Borrower’s departmental prefectures;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such 
countries."
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Operating Plan" means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.05 (a) of this Agreement, as approved by the Association;
(b)
"DDiE" means any of the Borrower’s district directorates of education 
(Dirección Distrital de Educación);
(c)
"Educational Subproject" means a specific subproject consisting of an 
integrated set of investments (which may include operating costs of FIS as provided in 
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and to be exclusively financed with 
local counterpart funds) for the improvement and expansion of infrastructure and 
equipment resources and/or the improvement of the quality of the process of 
teaching-learning in a selected School Nucleus and included in a PDEM (as hereinafter 
defined); such specific subproject to be selected and approved on the basis of 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"FIS" means the Borrower’s Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversión 
Social), established by the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 22407 of January 11, 1990, 
as amended by the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 22452 of March 8, 1990;
(e)
"FIS Eligible Investments" means a set of approximately two hundred and 
sixty (260) ongoing school construction and/or rehabilitation subprojects carried out 
or to be carried out by FIS, which subprojects have been approved by the Bank for 
financing under the Project;
(f)
"FIS Manuals"  means the Evaluation Manual, the Operations Manual and the 
Supervision Manual as such terms are defined in the development credit agreement, 
dated December 8, 1993, between the Borrower and the Association and as such manuals 
have been modified from time to time in agreement between FIS and the Association; 
(g)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year, which commences on 
January 1 and ends on December 31 of each calendar year;
(h)
"GM" means any municipal government (Gobierno Municipal) in the territory 
of the Borrower;
(i)
"Local School Board" means an organization composed of the 
representatives of School Boards (as hereinafter defined) within a School Nucleus (as 
hereinafter defined);
(j)
"MECD" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports 
(Ministerio de Educación, Cultura y Deportes);
Page  3
(k)
"MH" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda);
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual of rules and procedures, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the implementation of Parts A, B, and D of the 
Project and to be adopted by MECD and FIS pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Participating GM" means any GM that enters into a Participation 
Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
(n)
"Participation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (e) or (f) of this Agreement;
(o)
"PDEM" means any municipal educational development program (Programa de 
Desarrollo Educativo Municipal);
(p)
"Pedagogical Advisors" means the pedagogical advisors (asesores 
pedagógicos) referred to in article 42 of the Education Reform Law with the functions 
and responsibilities described in said article;
(q)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators to monitor the progress of 
the Project and the achievement of its objectives, set forth in the letter from the 
Borrower to the Association of even date herewith (Supplemental Letter);
(r)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter from the Association 
dated August 13, 1996 countersigned by the Borrower on September 4, 1996;
(s)
"School Board" means the organization described in article 6 of the 
Education Reform Law, with the functions and responsibilities set forth in article 5 
of said Law;
(t)
"School Nucleus" means the school nucleus defined in Article 31 of the 
Educational Reform Law;
(u)
"Special Account" means collectively Special Accounts A and B (as 
hereinafter defined);
(v)
"Special Account A" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement;
(w)
"Special Account B" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(x)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means  the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(y)
"VEIPS" means the Borrower’s Vice Ministry of initial, primary and 
secondary education (Viceministerio de Educación Inicial, Primaria y Secundaria).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty five million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR55,700,000)
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of: (i) categories (1), (2), 
(3) (a) and (6) in the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect 
of  Parts A and C of the Project; and (ii)  categories (2)  (b), (3)  (b), (3) (c), 
(3) (d), (4) and (5)  in the table of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in 
Page  4
respect of Parts B, D and E of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars, in the 
Borrower’s central bank or a commercial bank, a separate special deposit account on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2008 and ending February 15, 
2038.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2018 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
Page  5
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out, through MECD, Parts  B, D and E of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
technical, financial, environmental and administrative practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for such Parts of the 
Project; 
(ii)
cause FIS, under the Subsidiary Agreement,  to carry out Parts A, 
in coordination with MECD, and C of the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
financial, environmental and administrative practices; and 
(iii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable FIS to carry out Parts A and C of the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of such Parts of 
the Project by FIS.
(b)
(i)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out, and cause FIS to 
carry out, the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual 
and the applicable Annual Operating Plan.
(ii)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not, and shall cause FIS not to,  amend, abrogate or waive 
the Operational Manual, or any provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through MH and MECD, enter into a subsidiary 
agreement with  FIS to make the corresponding proceeds of the Credit available to FIS 
and to provide for the responsibilities of FIS with regard to the implementation of 
Parts A and C of the Project, all under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)
For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower 
shall, jointly with FIS, enter into participation agreements with any interested GM 
which:
(i)
submitted a PDEM in accordance with the provisions of the 
Educational Reform Law and the Operational Manual; and
(ii)
has been selected under the competitive process set forth in the 
Operational Manual;
such agreements to be entered into in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
Page  6
this Agreement.
(f) 
For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause FIS to enter into participation agreements with the respective GMs, such 
agreements to be entered into in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(g)
The Borrower shall cause FIS to undertake that, unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, FIS Eligible Investments shall be promoted, identified, 
appraised, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the FIS Manuals. Except as otherwise agreed with the 
Association, the Borrower shall cause FIS not to abrogate, amend or waive the FIS 
Manuals or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within VEIPS, at all times until 
completion of the Project, adequate staff for the implementation, coordination, 
evaluation and supervision of the Project, all with functions, qualifications, 
experience, and under terms of reference, satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the departmental and municipal evaluation 
committees established pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement are 
maintained, during the implementation of the Project, with functions, structure and 
staffing satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through VEIPS, shall, not later than 
June 30 and December 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, starting in 
June 30, 1999, furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report on 
the progress achieved in the execution of the Project, with regard to the preceding 
semester of such scope and in such detail as the Association may reasonably request.
Section 3.05. (a) In conjunction with the report to be furnished to the 
Association not later than December 31 of each year of Project implementation, 
pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through VEIPS, furnish 
to the Association, for its review and approval, an annual operating plan for the 
following calendar year, in a format satisfactory to the Association, such plan to 
include, inter alia:
(i)
the schedule of activities to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit;
(ii)
terms of reference for all the activities so scheduled;
(iii)
the resources required to complete such activities;
(iv)
key Project execution benchmarks; and
(v)
quality and impact indicators for the Project.
(b)
Upon the Association’s approval, the Borrower shall carry out, and cause 
FIS to carry out, such Annual Operating Plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to Sections 9.01 (a), 9.05 and 
9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of  the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, during the month of June of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in 1999,  annual reviews of the Project to focus, inter alia, 
on: (i) progress in the implementation of the Project on the basis of the Performance 
Indicators; (ii) technical quality of the Educational Subprojects; (iii) any changes 
to Project design or implementation arrangements; and (iv) Project management and 
monitoring; and 
(c)
if, as a result of any of the above annual reviews, or any other reviews 
Page  7
pursuant to Section 9.01 (a) of the General Conditions, the Association shall have 
reasonably determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the 
achievement of its objectives is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken, 
without limitation or restriction to any of the Association’s rights under this 
Agreement, all such action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary or 
appropriate for the efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its 
objectives.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) retain independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association to conduct, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association: 
(i) technical audits for each semester on the performance by the Borrower in the 
implementation of Parts A, B and D of the Project including achievement of physical 
targets, quality and cost of Educational Subprojects, compliance with eligibility 
criteria of Educational Subprojects, and procurement, disbursement and environmental 
procedures all as set forth in the Operational Manual; and (ii) a technical audit on 
the performance of FIS in the implementation of Part C of the Project including 
quality and cost of the FIS Eligible Investments and compliance with the provisions of 
the FIS Manuals; and 
(b)
furnish to the Association: (i) as soon as available, but in no case 
later than ninety days after each respective semester, the respective report of the 
auditors as referred to in paragraph (a) (i) above; and (ii) not later than September 
30, 1999, the report of the technical audit referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) above.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.09. The Borrower may retain or cause FIS to retain, under an agreement 
or agreements satisfactory to the Association, an entity or firm for purposes of the 
administration and management of the Project funds or a portion of such funds. Except 
as otherwise agreed with the Association, the Borrower shall, and shall cause FIS not 
to, abrogate, waive, suspend, amend or fail to enforce such agreements or any 
provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain  records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, D and E of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  8
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause FIS to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of FIS, including separate records and accounts reflecting the 
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause FIS to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that FIS will be able to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
the Popular Participation Law or the Educational Reform Law or the 
Administrative Decentralization Law, or the regulations issued under each one of them, 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in 
the opinion of the Association,  materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement, or 
the ability of FIS to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement or 
Participation Agreements, or the ability of the Participating GMs to perform any of 
their respective obligations under the Participation Agreements;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FIS or for the suspension of its 
operations; and 
(d)
 FIS or any Participating GM shall have failed to comply with any of the 
obligations or undertakings under the Subsidiary Agreement or the Participation 
Page  9
Agreements, as the case may be.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition 
precedent to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
shall have been executed and delivered on behalf of the respective parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The date of October 20, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address: 
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
La Paz, Bolivia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Edgar Millares Ardaya 
Authorized Representative
Page  10
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Deborah A. Bateman 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
(a)
under 
Part A.1
  22,508,000
100% of FIS
of the Project
financial share
under each 
Educational 
Subproject
(b)
under
Part C 
   9,700,000
72%
of the Project
(2)
Goods
(a)
under Part A.1 2,492,000
100% of FIS’
of the Project
financial share
under share
(b)
under Part A.2 1,480,000
Educational 
of the Project
Subproject
(c)
under other Parts940,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
87% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
Services and Training
(a)
under Part A.2 1,110,000
100% of FIS’
of the Project
financial share
under each
Educational 
Subproject
(b)
under Parts    9,350,000
87%
and D of the 
Project
(c)
under Part E (a) 190,000
87%
of the Project
(d)
under Part E (b) 190,000
87%
of the Project
(4)
Incremental
     530,000
87% of expenditures
Operating
incurred on or prior to
Page  11
Costs
December 31, 1999;
60% of expenditures 
incurred after 
December 31, 1999 
and until December 
31, 2001; and
40% thereafter
(5)
Incremental
   2,600,000
100% of FIS’ 
Remuneration
financial share
under each 
Educational
Subproject
(6)
Salaries and
   1,500,000
75% of expenditures
travel costs
incurred before the
of FIS’ staff
date of this Agreement
and after July 16, 1997
(7)
Refunding of
   1,100,000
Amount due
Project Preparation
pursuant to
Advance
Section 2.02
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   2,010,000
TOTAL
  55,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means incremental expenditures for 
administrative and operating costs of VEIPS, and which costs would not be incurred 
absent the Project, including: (i) office supplies; (ii) services rendered by public 
utilities; (iii) operation and maintenance of goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit for VEIPS; (iv) salaries of the incremental staff referred to in paragraph 
3 (c) (ii) of this Schedule; and (v) domestic and international travel and per diems 
of VEIPS’ personnel and required for the execution of the Project;
(d)
the term "Training" means: (i) remuneration of trainers; (ii) domestic 
and international travel and per diems of trainers and trainees; and (iii) training 
materials; 
(e)
the term "Incremental Remuneration" means expenditures for incremental 
remuneration for teachers in a School Nucleus in connection with services provided for 
the adaptation of educational reform initiatives to local classroom settings under 
Educational Subprojects under Part A of the Project; and
(f)
the term "Salaries and Travel costs of FIS's Staff" means the salaries of 
all professionals and technicians of FIS (other than its President) as approved by the 
Association and the travel costs of such staff associated with the administration of 
FIS Eligible Investments.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
4,700,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (6) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 16, 1997; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) 
or (5) of such table under an Educational Subproject unless: (i) the respective 
Page  12
Participation Agreement has been entered into by the respective parties thereto; and 
(ii) the respective departmental and municipal evaluation committee shall have been 
established with structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a), (2), (3), (4) or 
(5) of such table in respect of the Project (other than Part C of the Project) unless 
the Borrower shall: (i) have approved the Operational Manual; and (ii) have employed, 
at least, five administrative and technical specialists within VM with qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for expenditures:
(a)
for goods under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each;
(b)
for works under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent each;
(c)
for the services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each;
(d)
for the services of individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $25,000 equivalent each; and
(e)
for all Training, Incremental Remuneration, FIS Administrative Costs and 
Incremental Operating Costs, and Salaries and Travel cost of FIS’ Staff.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in the implementation of the 
Borrower’s educational reform program focusing on low-income rural and peri-urban 
areas, through targeted interventions aimed at improving the quality and equity of the 
Borrower’s education system, facilitating the access of the target population to basic 
education, reducing desertion and repetition rates, and increasing the educational 
performance of boys and girls.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A: 
Educational Subprojects
1.
Construction, rehabilitation, remodeling and/or upgrading of, and provision of 
equipment for, rural and urban schools of selected School Nucleus under Educational 
Subprojects.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and training to teachers and principals, and 
adaptation of educational reform materials to local classroom settings by teachers, of 
selected School Nucleus under Educational Subprojects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Carrying out of a municipal inventory of school infrastructure and equipment.
2.
Installation and operation of municipal information systems for investment 
planning in school infrastructure and equipment.
3.
Provision of: (a) technical assistance and training to selected faculty, 
directors of educational units, Pedagogical Advisors and Local School Boards, 
directors of School Nucleus, directors of DDiEs and staff from Participating GMs on 
municipal and school educational management and design, and implementation and 
evaluation of activities under Part A of the Project; (b) training to staff from the 
Participating GMs and DDiEs in the operation of the municipal information systems in 
Part B.2 of the Project; (c) technical assistance to selected faculty, directors of 
educational units, Pedagogical Advisors and Local School Boards, directors of School 
Nucleus, directors of DDiEs and staff from Participating GMs on group dynamics, 
conflict resolution, institutional and inter-institutional organization and 
coordination processes, mechanisms for community participation and human resources 
management; (d) training to members of the departmental and municipal operational 
Page  13
evaluation committees referred to in Section 3.
03 (a) (c) of this Agreement on aspects of implementation of Part A of the Project; 
and (e) technical assistance to selected faculty, directors of educational units, 
parents of students, Pedagogical Advisors and Local School Boards, directors of School 
Nucleus, directors of DDiEs and staff from Participating GMs on pedagogical and 
curricular innovation, improvement of school infrastructure and equipment and budget 
management. 
4.
Acquisition and utilization of basic transportation and communications equipment 
for approximately 250 DDiEs, aimed at ensuring the availability of the minimal 
resources required by such Directorates to participate in the Borrower’s education 
reform program.
Part C:
FIS Eligible Investments
Carrying out of FIS Eligible Investments.
Part D: 
Rural Girls Pilot Program
1.
Carrying out of a qualitative and quantitative diagnostic in approximately fifty 
(50) selected municipal jurisdictions to determine access, permanence, attendance and 
dropout rates by age and gender including the assessment of cultural and non-cultural 
barriers to permanence in the schools.
2.
Carrying out of: (a) a training program for faculty members in the selected 
municipal jurisdictions on improvement of rural girls’ education; and (b) a community 
awareness program with parents and school councils.
3.
Carrying out of a program of focalized activities in approximately ten (10) 
selected municipal jurisdictions which may include, inter alia , scholarships for 
female teachers and transportation services for rural children.
Part E:
Secondary and Tertiary Education
Carrying out of studies to evaluate and make recommendations on the expansion of 
the Borrower’s educational reform program in: (a) secondary education; and (b) 
tertiary education.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
Page  14
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically-manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000  but more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000; and
(b)
works estimated to cost $500,000 or less but more than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $27,500,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,040,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $26,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
4.
Community Participation
Goods required for Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, 
may be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as such 
procedures are described in the Operational Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works to be awarded under Part 
B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: 
(i)
the first three contracts for works or goods to be awarded each 
year under Part C.1 of this Section; and
(ii)
the first three contracts for works or goods to be awarded each 
year under Parts C.2 and C.3 of this Section, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(A)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor, as the 
Page  15
case may be, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(B)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and
(C)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance under Parts A and 
B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance and training under Part A.2 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for ex-post evaluations under Part B of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for technical assistance and training under the Project, in tasks that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  16
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods 
and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods and works contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, 
whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
Page  17
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower's agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all 
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000, in respect of the Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $700,000 
in respect of the Special Account B, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 in respect of the 
Special Account A and an amount equivalent to $300,000 in respect of the Special 
Account B until: (i)  in respect of the Special Account A, the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000; and (ii) in 
respect of the Special Account B, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the  respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
Page  18
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special Account 
for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the respective Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; 
or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the respective Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the respective Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  19
SCHEDULE 5
Participation Agreements
Participation Agreements shall be entered into on terms, satisfactory to the 
Association, whereby FIS and the Borrower, through MECD, shall obtain rights adequate 
to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the Participating GM to carry out and operate the Educational 
Subproject or FIS Eligible Investment with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and educational standards and practices and the Operational Manual, and 
to provide its financial share for the respective Educational Subproject and to 
maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Educational Subproject or FIS Eligible Investment;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Borrower and 
the Association, if the Borrower and the Association shall so request, such goods and 
the sites, works, and construction included in the Educational Subproject or FIS 
Eligible Investment, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Participating GM take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound managerial practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation 
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use 
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable to the Borrower or FIS to 
replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Association and FIS 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Participating GM and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Educational Subproject or FIS Eligible Investment; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Participating GM to benefit from 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such GM to perform its obligations under 
the corresponding Participation Agreement.
