Page  1
September 3, 2001
His Excellency
Jacques Trigo
Minister of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Re:
Credit No. 3096-B0 (Education Quality and Equity Strengthening 
Project)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated July 20, 1998, between 
the International Development Association (the Association) and the Republic of 
Bolivia (the Borrower), as amended.  In this letter, all the terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement have the same meaning as therein set forth.
Pursuant to your request and our discussions on the subject, the Association 
hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement, so as to clarify the 
description of the Project, reflect the establishment of CONAES and FOMCALIDAD (as 
hereinafter defined), reallocate part of the proceeds of the Credit and streamline the 
procurement procedures pursuant to the strategy of the Comprehensive Development 
Framework.
Consequently, the Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
1.
1.
Section 1.02 (d) is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(d) ‘FPS’ means Fondo Nacional de Inversión Productiva y Social, the 
Borrower’s national productive and social investment fund established pursuant 
to Article 14 of the Borrower’s Supreme Decree No. 25984 of November 16, 2000 
as the 
agency responsible for financing programs and projects in the areas of 
health and 
education in the Borrower’s territory;".
Consequently, all references to "FIS" are replaced by references to "FPS".
2.
2.
Section 1.02 (f) is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(f)
‘FPS Manuals’ means the evaluation, operations and supervision 
manuals to be adopted by FPS for the implementation of Part C of the Project 
to the satisfaction of the Association, as such manuals may be modified from 
time to time by agreement between FPS and the Association;".
3.
3.
Section 1.02 (l) is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(l)
‘Operational Manual’ means the manual of rules and procedures to 
be adopted by MECD and FPS for the implementation of Parts A, B, D and E of 
the Project to the satisfaction of the Association, as such manuals may be 
modified from time to time by agreement between FPS, MECD and the 
Association;".
4.
Section 1.02 (n) is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
"(n)
‘Participation Agreement’ means any of the agreements referred to 
in Sections 3.01 (e) or (f) or (h) of this Agreement;".
5.
Section 1.02 (y) is deleted. Consequently, all references to VEIPS are 
substituted by references to MECD.
6.
The following new Sections 1.02 (y) through (ff) are inserted to read as follows 
in their entirety:
"(y) ‘Amendment Letter’ means the amendment letter to the Development 
Credit Agreement signed by the Association on September 3, 2001, and 
countersigned by the Borrower on September 3, 2001; 
Page  2
(z) ‘CONAES" means the Borrower’s National Council of Accreditation of 
Higher Education (Consejo Nacional de Acreditación de Educación Superior);
(aa) ‘FOMCALIDAD" means the Borrower’s Quality Improvement Fund for 
Higher Education (Fondo de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación 
Superior);
(bb) ‘FOMCALIDAD Manual’ means the manual for the promotion, 
identification, appraisal, approval, implementation and monitoring of 
FOMCALIDAD Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) to be adopted by MECD to the 
satisfaction of the Association, as such manuals may be modified from time to 
time by agreement between MECD and the Association;
(cc) ‘FOMCALIDAD Subgrant’ means any grant made by MECD out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Higher Education Institution (as hereinafter 
defined) for the carrying out of a FOMCALIDAD Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to the provisions of a FOMCALIDAD Subgrant Agreement (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(dd) ‘FOMCALIDAD Subgrant Agreement’ means any agreement entered into 
between MECD and a Higher Education Institution (as hereinafter defined) 
pursuant to the provisions of the FOMCALIDAD Manual;
(ee) ‘FOMCALIDAD Subproject" means any investment subproject to by 
financed by a FOMCALIDAD Subgrant for the purposes of improving the quality of 
Higher Education (as hereinafter defined) in the territory of the Borrower;
(ff) ‘Higher Education’ means the post-secondary level of education 
referred to in the Educational Reform Law; 
(gg) ‘Higher Education Institution’ means any post-secondary educational 
institution for teacher training, technical or technological training, owned 
or operated by the Borrower or a Public University (as hereinafter defined) ; 
and
(hh) ‘Public University’ means any university owned or supported by the 
Borrower but managed by an autonomous council comprising faculty and 
students.".
7.
New Sections 3.01 (h) and (i) are inserted to read as follows in their entirety:
"(h) With regard to Part E of the Project, the Borrower (through MECD) 
shall enter into Participation Agreements with Higher Education Institutions 
to make available part of the proceeds of the Credit for the implementation of 
FOMCALIDAD Subprojects, all under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.
(i) The Borrower (through MECD) shall ensure that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, FOMCALIDAD Subprojects are promoted, 
identified, appraised, approved, implemented and monitored in accordance with 
the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the FOMCALIDAD Manual. Except as 
otherwise agreed with the Association, the Borrower (through MECD) shall not 
to abrogate, amend or waive the FOMCALIDAD Manual or any provision thereof.
(g) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under any Participation 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Participation Agreement or any provision thereof.
8.
Section 3.07 (a) (i) is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) retain independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association to conduct, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association: (i) technical audits for each semester on the 
performance by the Borrower in the implementation of Parts A, B, D and E of 
the Project including achievement of physical targets, quality and cost of 
Educational Subprojects and FOMCALIDAD Subprojects, compliance with 
eligibility criteria of Educational Subprojects and FOMCALIDAD Subprojects, 
and procurement, disbursement and environmental procedures all as set forth in 
the 
Operational Manual and the FOMCALIDAD Manual."
9.
Section 5.01 (d) is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
Page  3
"(d)
FPS or MECD or any Participating GM or any Higher Education 
Institution shall have failed to comply with any of the obligations or 
undertakings under the Subsidiary Agreement or the Participation Agreements, 
as the case may be."
10.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in 
Attachment I to this letter in its entirety.
11.
Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
9.
"(c) the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental 
expenditures for administrative and operating costs of MECD required for the 
implementation of the Project, as approved by the Association, including: (i) 
office 
supplies; (ii) services rendered by public utilities; (iii) operation 
and 
maintenance of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for MECD; 
(iv) 
salaries of the incremental staff of MECD; and (v) domestic and 
international travel and subsistence expenditures of MECD personnel required 
for the execution of the Project."
12.
A new Paragraph 3 (d) of Schedule 1 is inserted to read as follows in its 
entirety:
"3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(d)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of the Amendment 
Letter, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR222,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2) (d), 3 (d), 
4 (a) 
and (9) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after June 1, 2000.". 
13.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts for goods, services and works, and consultant’s services in respect 
of which the procedures for Prior Review and Prior Review for Consultants 
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement will not be required in accordance 
with 
the provisions of the table in Section V of such Schedule, all under such 
terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower."
14.
Part E of the Project is amended to read as follows in its entirety:
"Part E: Secondary and Tertiary Education
13.
Carrying out of studies to evaluate and make recommendations on the 
expansion of the Borrower’s educational reform program in: (a) secondary 
education; and (b) tertiary education (including Higher Education), and 
implementation of such recommendations through the institutional modernization 
of the 
MECD and the establishment and operation of CONAES and FOMCALIDAD 
within MECD."
15.
Schedule 3 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment II to this 
letter in its entirety. 
16.
Schedule 5 is amended to read as set forth in Attachment III to this Letter in 
its entirety:
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned.  This amendment 
letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original. 
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The 
provisions of this Amendment Letter (other than those of paragraphs 13 and 15 thereof) 
will become effective as of the date of countersignature,
once the Association has: 
(a) received one executed original of this amendment letter; and (b) approved the FPS 
Manuals, the Operational Manual and the FOMCALIDAD Manual. The provisions of: (a) 
paragraph 13 of this Amendment Letter will become effective as of April 11, 2001; and 
(b) the provisions of paragraph 15 of this Amendment Letter will become effective as 
Page  4
of December 1, 2001, once the Association has received one executed original of this 
amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Country Director
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jacques Trigo Loubiere
Authorized Representative
Attachment I
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods, Services and Works
1.
Guidelines
Goods, services and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines), as such Guidelines may be revised by 
the Bank from time to time; and (b) the applicable provisions of this Schedule.
2.
Grouping of Contracts
(a)
Contracts for goods, services and works shall be packaged in sizes 
adequate to attract maximum competition and to ensure economy and efficiency in the 
procurement process. Contracts shall not be divided into smaller units in order to 
make them less appropriate for competitive procedures. Any proposal to divide a 
contract into smaller packages shall require the prior approval of the Association.
(b)
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) contracts 
for works shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $3,000,000 equivalent or 
more each.
3.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
4.
Standard documents
In the procurement of goods, services or works under NCB, S(I/N) and PSW (as 
hereinafter defined in Section V) the Borrower shall use standard documents acceptable 
to the Association.
Section II: 
Employment of Consultants
Consultant Guidelines
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
Page  5
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), as such 
Consultant Guidelines may be revised by the Bank from time to time; and (b) the 
applicable provisions of this Schedule.
Section III.  Records and audits
1.
Records
(a)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained Procurement Records adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound procurement practices (including 
related supervision, review and auditing) the procurement 
activities of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and
(ii)
ensure that all such Procurement Records evidencing such 
procurement activities are retained until at least two (2) years 
after the Closing Date.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, Procurement Records mean:
(i)
with respect to procurement of goods, services and works: public 
notices of bidding opportunities; bidding documents and addenda; 
bid opening information; bid evaluation reports; formal appeals by 
bidders and outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; 
records on claims and dispute resolution; and records of time 
taken to complete key steps in the process; and
(ii)
with respect to selection of consultants: public notices for 
expressions of interest; requests for proposals and addenda; 
technical and final evaluation reports; formal appeals by firms 
and related outcomes; signed contracts, addenda and amendments; 
records on claims and dispute resolution, and records of time 
taken to complete key steps.
2.
Audits: 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Procurement Records audited each of the Borrower’s fiscal years, 
in accordance with internationally accepted procurement standards consistently 
applied, by independent procurement experts acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case no 
later than six months after the end of each such Year, the report of said audit, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
at any time during Project implementation, furnish to the Association 
such other information concerning said audit, as the Association may reasonably 
request.
Section IV.
Review of Procurement Action
1.
Prior to the issuance of: (a) any invitations to bid for goods, services or 
works; or (ii) any requests for proposals to consultants, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines and the Consultant Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods, services and 
works and selection of all consultants shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association (the Procurement 
Plan), and with the provisions of said paragraphs.
2.
Not later than June 1st and December 1st of each year of Project implementation, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and approval, a detailed 
update of the Procurement Plan for the upcoming calendar semester.  Such update shall 
include: (a) a firm list of contracts to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester 
and a tentative list of contracts to be procured in the subsequent semester; (b) 
estimated contract costs; (c) schedule for bidding; and (d) particular methods of 
procurement of goods, services and works and selection of consultants.
Page  6
3.
The Borrower shall arrange the publication of a summary of the Procurement Plan 
and any update thereof in the UN Development Business Magazine** See footnote 19 to 
paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines..
4.
The Borrower and the Association shall meet every two (2) months to review 
implementation progress of the Procurement Plan.
5
Any modification to the Procurement Plan shall require the Association’s prior 
review and approval.
Section V.  Specific Provisions for the Procurement of Goods, Services, Works, and 
Employment of Consultants
Definitions:
1.
"ICB" means the International Competitive Bidding procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto;
2.
"IC" means the Individual Consultants selection procedure set forth in 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines;
3.
"NCB" means the National Competitive Bidding procedure set forth in paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines;
4.
"Other Methods of Procurement" means the methods of procurement set forth in 
Section III of the Guidelines;
5.
"Other Methods of Selection" means the methods of selection set forth in Section 
III of the Consultant Guidelines;
6.
"Post Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association 
determines, at any time, that the proposed selection is inconsistent with the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines or this Schedule, it shall promptly inform the 
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination;
7.
"Post Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines, provided, however, that if the Association determines, at any time, that 
the proposed procurement is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines or this 
Schedule, it shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its 
determination;
8.
"Prior Review for Consultants" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines; 
9.
"Prior Review" means the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines;
10.
"PSW" means the procurement of small works procedure for lump sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
11.
"QCBS" means the Quality and Cost-based selection procedure set forth in Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the applicable provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof; 
12.
"S(I/N)" means the Shopping (International and National) procedure referred to 
in paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and
13.
"TORs" means terms of reference.
Section VI. Special Provisions for Bolivia
A.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provision set forth in this 
Page  7
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all procurement of goods, 
services and works under NCB:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
2.
The award of goods, services and works contracts shall be based exclusively on 
price and, whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those 
referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and 
the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
5.
Whenever there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern.
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three (3) bids or less have been submitted unless such bids 
have been determined not to be responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate.
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding. 
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used.
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower’s agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition to and without limitation on any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following rules shall govern all selection 
of consultants referred to in this Schedule:
1.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants, 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant Guidelines are met.
2.
As a condition for participating in the selection process, foreign consultants 
shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such 
proposals with Bolivian authorities.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Borrower’s 
National Registry of Consultants (Registro Nacional de Consultoría).
Attachment III
SCHEDULE 5
Participation Agreements
Participation Agreements shall be entered into on terms, satisfactory to the 
Association, whereby FPS and the Borrower (through MECD) shall obtain rights adequate 
to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower, including the right to:
Page  8
(a)
require any Participating GM or any Higher Education Institution to carry 
out and operate any Educational Subproject or FPS Eligible Investment or FOMCALIDAD 
Subproject (as the case may be) with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with appropriate managerial, administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
educational standards and practices, the FPS Manuals or the Operational Manual or the 
FOMCALIDAD Manual (as the case may be) and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that the goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Educational Subproject or the FPS Eligible Investment or the FOMCALIDAD Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Borrower and 
the Association, if the Borrower and the Association shall so request, such goods and 
the sites, works, and construction included in any Educational Subproject or FPS 
Eligible Investment or FOMCALIDAD Subproject (as the case may be), the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) any participating GM or Higher Education Institution 
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and 
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound managerial practice; and (ii) 
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to 
the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable to FPS or the Borrower (through MECD), as the case may be, to replace or 
repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Borrower, the Association and FPS 
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of any Participating GM or Higher Education 
Institution and to the benefits to be derived from any Educational Subproject or FPS 
Eligible Investment or FOMCALIDAD Subproject (as the case may be); and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of any Participating GM or Higher 
Education Institution to benefit from the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such 
Participating GM or Higher Education Institution (as the case may be) to perform any 
of their respective obligations under the corresponding Participation Agreement.
