Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TRUST FUND NUMBER 024243
Swedish Grant Agreement
in respect of the 
Education Quality and Equity Strengthening Project
(Credit No. 3096-BO)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Dated October 1, 2001
TRUST FUND NUMBER 024243
SWEDISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 1, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Administrator), acting 
as Administrator of a Grant provided by the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (Sweden).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Development Credit Agreement (3096-BO Education Quality 
and Equity Strengthening Project) dated July 20, 1998 between the Recipient and the 
Administrator (the Credit Agreement) the Administrator has extended to the Recipient a 
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five million seven 
hundred thousand Drawing Rights (SDR 55,700,000) (the Credit) to assist in the 
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement (the 
Project);
(B)
the Recipient has requested assistance of Sweden in the financing of the 
Project and in consideration of this request, Sweden intends to deposit in IBRD’s Cash 
Account "T" in Sveriges Riksbank (the Swedish Trust Fund Account) an aggregate amount 
of one hundred and two millions five-hundred thousand Swedish Kronor (SEK102,500,000) 
(the Swedish Grant), and has, pursuant to an agreement dated November 17, 2000 between 
Sweden and the Administrator (the Swedish Administration Agreement) appointed the 
Administrator as Administrator of said Grant for the purpose of providing assistance 
to the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of the Cofinancing, Technical 
Assistance and Trust Fund Framework Agreement between Sweden and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Administrator, dated March 23, 1998 
(the Framework Agreement); and
(C)
the Recipient and the Administrator intend, to the extent practicable, 
that the proceeds of the Grant provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account 
of expenditures in respect of the Project before the disbursements of the proceeds of 
Page  2
the Credit are made, pursuant to the provisions of the Credit Agreement, as 
applicable;
WHEREAS, the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to 
the Recipient under this Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by Sweden to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Swedish Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Administrator, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
 
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12) 
and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Swedish 
Grant pursuant to the Swedish Administration Agreement, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include 
the International Development Association acting in its own 
capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement except that in Section 
6.02 (a), the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the Credit 
Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Swedish Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Swedish Grant Account, an account opened by 
the Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to 
which the amount of the Grant is credited; and
(vi)
Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
"Withdrawals from the Swedish Grant Account shall be made in Swedish 
Page  3
Kronor; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Swedish Grant have been paid or are payable in another 
currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase 
such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Credit Agreement and in Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BCB" means Banco Central de Bolivia, the Recipient’s central bank;
(b)
"FPS Swedish Special Account" means the special deposit account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(c)
"MECD Swedish Special Account" means the special deposit account referred 
to in Section 2.02 (c) (i) of this Agreement; 
(d)
"Swedish Kronor" and the symbol "SEK" mean the currency of Sweden; and
(c)
"Swedish Special Account" means the MECD Swedish Special Account or the 
FPS Special Account.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of one hundred 
and two millions five hundred thousand Swedish Kronor (SEK102,500,000) in accordance 
with the provisions of the Swedish Administration Agreement.
Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Swedish Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Swedish Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant.
(b)
Withdrawals from the Swedish Grant Account shall be made in the 
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Swedish Grant have been paid or are payable, or, at the option of the 
Administrator, in Swedish Kronor.
(c)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of each of: (i) Parts B, D and E of 
the Project; and (ii) Parts A and C of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
separate special deposit accounts in BCB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Administrator. Deposits into, and payments out of, each Swedish Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03 No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 
31, 2003, or such later date that Administrator shall establish by notice to the 
Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date 
for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date, if the corresponding withdrawal 
application is received by the Administrator within four (4) months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the provisions 
of Articles III, IV and V of the Credit Agreement for the Education Quality and Equity 
Strengthening Project (as amended to the date of this Agreement) are hereby 
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if they were fully 
set forth herein, it being understood that all references therein to the "Association" 
shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator under this Agreement, all 
references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the Swedish Grant, and 
all references to the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Page  4
Section 4.01. This Swedish Grant Agreement shall become effective upon its 
execution.
Section 4.02. This Swedish Grant Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient 
and the Administrator shall terminate on the date on which the Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.04. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
FINANZA
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Framework Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Sweden. 
The Recipient agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Recipient to that 
effect, Sweden shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if Sweden had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further action 
required on the part of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to 
have any rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Jacques Trigo Loubiere
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as Administrator on behalf of the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Page  5
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Swedish Grant
Section A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Swedish Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Swedish Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
Swedish Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SEK Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works under 
  38,700,000
100% of FPS financial
Part A.1 of the Project
share under each
Educational Subproject
(2)
Goods
(a)
under Part A.1
  13,100,000
100% of FPS financial
of the Project
share under each
Educational Subproject
(b)
under Part B.3 (e)  37,400,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures; 87%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ Services and  8,500,000
87%
Training under Part B.3
of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
   4,800,000
TOTAL
102,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
"foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Recipient for goods supplied from the territory of any country 
other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
"local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient 
or for goods supplied from the territory of the Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made:
(a)
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SEK10,250,000, may 
be made in respect of Categories (1) through (3) of the table in paragraph 1 above on 
account of payments made for expenditures incurred before the date of this Agreement 
but after June 1, 2000; and
(b)
expenditures that the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to 
finance.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Swedish Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for 
goods, works and consultant’s services in respect of which the procedures for Prior 
Review and Prior Review for Consultants referred to in Schedule 3 to the Credit 
Agreement will not be required in accordance with the provisions of the table in 
Section V of such Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
Page  6
SCHEDULE 2
Swedish Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Swedish Grant Account and deposited into the MECD 
Swedish Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; and (ii) an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Swedish Grant Account and 
deposited into the FPS Swedish Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the respective Swedish Special Account shall be made exclusively 
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Swedish Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Swedish Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the respective Swedish 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Swedish Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Swedish Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Swedish Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits 
into the respective Swedish Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Swedish Grant Account and deposit 
into the respective Swedish Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Swedish Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All 
such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the 
Swedish Grant Account under the respective Eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Swedish Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any Swedish Special 
Page  7
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Swedish Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of the Credit Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to 
said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for any Swedish 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Swedish Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Swedish Grant allocated to the 
Eligible Categories for the respective Swedish Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Swedish Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Swedish Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Swedish Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Swedish Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Swedish Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any 
Swedish Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Swedish Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Swedish Special 
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Swedish Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
