Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4887-IND
STAFF ADPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTI URBAN DEv l.OPENT PROJECT
April 12, i.984
Urban and Water Supply Division
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance cf
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_           -_____________________________                                                _1



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Rupiah (Rp)
US$1                  Rupiahs (Rp) 1,000
Rp 100               US$0.10
Rp 1 million          US$1,000
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter            (m)      =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer        (km)    = 0.62 miles
i cubic meter      (cu m) -  35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare          (ha)    =  2.47 acres
I liter (lit) per  (lcd)   =  0.26 US gal-Ions per
capita per day                 capita per day
FISCAI, YEAR
April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS      =  National Development Planning Board
Cipta Karya   =  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning, and Urban
Development in the Ministry of Public Works
Dalam Negeri  =  Ministry of Home Affairs
DRIP          =  Drainage Improvement Program
GOI           =  Government of Indonesia
INPRES        =  National Subsidy for Local Development
IPEDA         =  National Real Property Tax for Regional Development
Kanwil        =  Kantor Wilayah or Provincial Branch Offices
KIP           =  Kampung Improvement Program
MPW           =  Ministry of Public Works
PFO           =  Project Finance Office
PIU           =  Project Implementing Unit
PMU           =  Project Management Unit
PWD              Public Works Department
PUOD             Directorate General of Public Administration and Regional
Autonomy in the Ministry of Home Affairs
Repelita I    =  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74)
Repelita II   =  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-79)
Repelita -II =  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979-84)
Repelita lV   =  Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1984-89)
SWIP          =  Solid Waste Improvement Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY..6 ..    ..      ......................... 
I.  THE URBAN SECTOR.....................................                    1
A.  Urban Twvelopment in Indonesia ....................1
B.  Bank Sec.or Lending Strategy, Rationale and Past
Experience.                     ........ ...          ..4. 
II.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING.. ..                  .           5
A.  Background and Objectives..       .     .    .                       5
B.  Pro,ject Components..p..n.. ............................             6
C.  Project Description.. .....       .     .........................    7
D.  Project Costs and Financing Plan ....... .............. .           14
III.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, EXECUTION AND MANAGEMENT        ...               17
A.  Executing Agencies. ......... ........ ................             17
B.  Project Implementation Arrange ments ..........                     20
C.  Project Implementation Schedule ..................                  23
D.  Procurement ..... ..............   a ................... a          24
E.  Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . a. .  25
F.  Accounts and Audits..d. ........................... ...             26
G.  Monitoring and Supervisionp...................                      26
H.  Land Acquisition ......................... ..........              27
1.  Operations and Maintenance               . ...........              28
IV.  FINANCIAL ANALYSISN.. . ........S.. .. ......  .. .......               28
A.  Municipal Finances.... ..............    . ... . . ......           28
B.  Project Impact and Resource Mobilization. .......                   31
C.  Cost Recovery and Replicability .......  ...... ........            31
This report is based on the findings and recommendations of an appraisal
mission to Indonesia in July/August 1983. Mission members included Roy Ramani
(mission leader), Take Iizuka, Fitz Ford (IBRD), assisted by Nawaz Tariq and
Brian Binder (consultants). Mr. Jaime Biderman (IBRD) assisted in the prepar-
ation of the report. Ms. T. Ingalla assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................            33
A.  Justification.............. .                   ...... ** *       33
B.  Risks       ..............s .. ........  ..........               35
VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS ........        ... .... &...............              35
ANNEXES
1.   Urban Sector Profiles of Project Cities
2.   Kampung Improvement Program (KIP):  Services Standards
3.   Solid Waste Management Component (SWIP):  Procurement Provisions
4.   Drainage Improvement Program (DRIP):  Procurement Provisions
5.   Municipal Management Programs:  Outline Terms of Reference
6.   Technical Assistance:  Outline Terms of Reference
7.   Consultants' Appointnent Schedule
8.   Details of Project Cost Estimates
9.   Detailed Financing Plan
10.   Key Project Staffing Requirements for KIP, SWIP, AND DRIP Execution
11.   Key Project Implementation Monitoring Indicators
12.   Estimated Number of Contracts and Bank's Procurement Review Requirements
13.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
14.   Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities for Project Facilities
15.   Financial Review of City Governments
16.   Economic Analysis
17.   List of Documents in Project Files
CRARTS
1.   Inter-Relationships Between Principal Executing Agencies
2.   Typical Organization Structure for Municipal Governments
3.   Organizational Structure for Project Implementation and Supervision
4.   Overall Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 17528       Surakarta
IBRD 17529       Surabaya
IBRD 17530       Semarang
IBRD 17531       Ujung Pandang



INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumaary
Borrower           Republic of Indonesia
BeneFiciaries:    K1unicipaLities of Surabaya, Semarang, Siirakarta, and Ujung
Pandang-
Amount:            $39.25 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-
end-fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  $28.7 million would be relent zo the project cities and the
provincial government of South Sulawesi (where Ujung Pandang
is located) for 20 years, including five years of grace, at
a fixed interest rate of 10%. The foreign exchaage rtsk
would be borne by the Government.
Project
Description      The project would support the Government's efforts to pro-
vide essential urban services to low incone groups in four
major cities and foster improveme,1ts in naunicipal managenent
and administration. The project would include: (a) the
provision of integrated basic services such as roads, foot-
paths, water supply and sanitation, primary schools and
health clinics in low income neighborhoods (known as
kampungs); (b) improvements in solid waste management and
surface drainage; (c) municipal management studies in
financial planning, programming and budgeting, operations
and maintenance, cost recovery and revenue generation; and
(d) technical assistance for project implementation and
preinvestment and feasibility studies.
The project would provide improved basic services to
1.2 million residents of the four cities. About 760,000
would benefit from the kampung improvement program.  hnot1her
400,000 would share in the benefits of the solid waste
disposal program, which would provide a cleaner physicaL
environment and reduce health risks, and the drainage
improvement program, which would minimize the risks of
property damage, illness and loss of life arising fron
periodic flooding.
There is a risk that the municipal management studies would
be delayed by limited capacity at the Ministry of Home
Affairs to supervise specialized consulting assignments.
This risk would be addressed through the involvement of an
inter-muinisterial steering committee. The cities of
Semarang and Ujung Pandaag may also lack sufficient



- ii -
experience to manage large-scale drainage works, but they
would be assisted by personnel seconded from the provincial
and local branch offices of the Ministry of Public Works.
Estinated Project Cost:                               Local   Foreign  Total
…($ million)
Kampung improvement program             13.0       6.7    19.7
Solid waste management program           1.4       4.3      5.7
Drainage improvement program            11.9       6.3    18.2
Municipal management programs             1.2      0.9      2.1
Technical assistance                     2.5       1.2      3.7
Base Costs                          30.0      19.4    49.4
Contingencies
Physical                             1.1       0.5     .1.6
Price                                8.2       5.1    13.3
Total Project Cost /a               39.3      25.0    64.3
Front-end fee on Bank loan                -        0.1      0.1
Total Financing Required                39.3      25.1    64.4
Financing Plan:                                        Local   Foreign  Total
…     ($ million)…
IBRD                                    14.1      25.1    39.2
Central Government                       7.2        -       7.2
Provincial Governments                   4.8                4.8
City Governments                        13.2        -      13.2
Total Financin  Provided:           39.3      25.1    64.4
Estitnated
Disbursements:         Bank FY         1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
--(US$ million)
Annual:           0.9   3.2    6.8    9.8   10.8    7.7
Cumulative:       0.9   4.1   10.9   90.7   31.5   39.2
Rate of Return:    About 24% on those activities for which benefits can be
estimated and which account for about 75% of the project
costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:    NG . 4887-IND, dated April 12, 1984.
Ia   Includes US$1.1 million in taxes and duties.



I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urban Development in Indonesia
Urbanization Trends
1.01      Indonesia's urban population was estimated at 33 million in 1980,
representing 22% of the countzy's total population of 147 million.  During the
decade of the 1970's, the urban population increased at a rate of about 4% per
year or aLmost double the 2.3% overall rate of population growth. The urban
population is expected to continue growing at around 4% per year during the
next two decades while the rate of total population growth declines slightly,
resulting in a projected urban population of 72 million or 34% of the total by
the year 2000. Urban growth could reach even higher levels if present demo-
graphic and technological trends in rural Java accelerate, leading to
increased permanent and circular migration to urban areas. During the next
five years about 1.6 million new urban residents are expected each year.
Metropolitan Jakarta (with over 8 million people), Surabaya (2.2 taillion) and
seven other cities with populations over 500,000 together account for almost
half of the urban population. These large and medium-sized cities are likely
to continue to absorb the bulk of urban population growth in the next two
decades.
Urban Services /1
1.02      The magnitude of projected urban population growth presents a major
challenge in terms of employment and services.  Despite recent achievements in
reducing the proportion of urban residents with consumption levels below the
urban poverty threshold, more than a quarter of urban residents remain below
the absolute urban poverty threshold (estimated at US $125 per capita per
annum for 1980) and more than thLee quarters of the urban population remains
below the relative urban poverty threshold (estimated at US$250 per capita per
annum for 1982). Moreover, despite significant progress in the last decade in
improving access to urban services (paras. 1.04 through 1.07), urban areas
continue to be characterized by severe deficiencies in essential infrastruc-
ture. Nearly 40 of the urban population lacks access to a safe, reliable
water supply and currently obtains water from polluted sources or from vendors
at relatively high prices. Many of Indonesia's principal cities are located
in flat, swampy coastal areas which suffer from poor drainage, tidal inun-
dation, flash floods and siltation. Drains are often used for liquid, solid
and human waste disposal as well as for washing and bathing. Only about a
third of urban residents have access to private sanitation facilities with
septic tanks or to organized solid waste collection. These service deficien-
cies result in very unhygienic living conditions and constitute a serious
public health hazard. The situation is particularly severe in the "kampung"
or informal settlement areas - the low-lying, densely po.pulated neighborhoods
that house a large proportion of Indonesia's urban population.
/1   For further elaboration of this and other sector background sectiolls see
the Bank's forthcoming Urban Services Sector Report (Report No. 4800-
IND).



-2-
Sector Organization
1.03      Within the Central Government, the Ministry of Home Affairs or Dalam
Negeri is responsible for matters concerning local government, and since urban
services are essentially a local responsibility, Dalam Negeri, through its
Directorate General of Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) has
a central policy role in the provision of urban services. The Directorate
General for Planning, Building, Housing and Urban Development (Cipta Karya) of
the Ministry of Public Works (NPW) is responsible for the technical aspects of
most urban services (water supply, sanitation, drainage, kampung improvement,
solid waste) including the planning and execution of centrally funded-
projects. The Ministry of Finance and the National Development Planning Board
(BAPPENAS) are concerned with financial and planning aspects of centrally-
funded (Inpres) urban programs. The responsibility for public land and
housing development is vested in the National Urban Development Corporation
(PERUMNAS), a parastatal organization. Provincial governments have not been
directly involved in the provision of urban services (except in Jakarta),
although they are responsible for overseeing the work of local government and
in certain cases provide financial assistance to the cities. Recently there
has been some delegation of MPW's responsibilities for project execution to
provincial branches of the Ministry (called kanwils). However, the main res-
ponsibility for urban services remains with the second level of local govern-
ment, that is, with the municipality (kotamadya), or with the regency
(kabupaten) for urban areas which do not have separate kotamadya status. The
service departments (Dinas) of local governments, and more specialized local
enterprises (such as water supply entities) are the key agencies involved in
the provision and maintenance of urban services.
Government Programs and Policies
1.04      To ameliorate the conditions described above (para. 1.02), the
Government's urban programs have focussed primarily on the provision of basic
services. Total investment by all levels of government in urban services
averaged about Rp 285 billion a year during the third Five-Year Development
Plan or Repelita III (1979-84), equivalent to 0.55% of GDP or Rp 7,700 ($11)
per urban resident. The Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) began in Jakarta in
1969 and has now become a national program reaching more than 200 cities
throughout the country. The KIP concept involved the provision of basic
infrastructure - roads, footpaths, water supply, sanitation and social
facilities - to poorly serviced kampungs, with physical standards and commun-
ity disruption kept to a minimum. With the success of Jakarta's KIP and grow-
ing political support, the program accelerated during 'Repelita II (1974-79;
kampung coverage - 7,000 ha) and Repelita III (1979-1984; kanipung coverage -
15,000 ha) periods. The policy framework for KIP both as a physical and a
social program became established during Repelita III. Jakarta has now
improved almost all of lts worst kampung areas covering about 3 million people
and Surabaya is more than halfway through its program of upgrading infrastruc-
ture for about 800,000 residents. In order to expand the program to the
national level, the government established a stimulus (PERINTIS) scheme which
provides central government grants to cities for planning and implementation
of investments executed by Cipta Karya. Many of the larger cities have
obtained additional funds to expand the coverage or level of services pri-
marily through foreign loans and grants. KIP is widely regarded as a success-
ful program which has improved conditions in the kampungs at a reasonable cost



- 3 -
per hectare and per capita and is considered replicable. There has been only
a limited turnover in the population of KIP areas resulting from increasm in
property values.  Recent studies on the impact of KIP in various cities -
tend to reinforce this view.
1.05      In conjunction with the expansion of KIP, the Government also began
to focus some attention during Repelita III on the broader problems of drain-
age, solid waste collection and disposal, and sanitation or sewerage. In view
of the location of many Indonesian cities in low-lying coastal areas, flooding
is not confined to kampung areas and constitutes a city-wide problem. More-
over, it is increasingly recognized that KIP may not be fully effective in the
absence of complementary improvements in the trunk or primary and secondary
drainage networks. During Repelita III, improvements in drainage and solid
waste collection were initiated in a few of the larger cities. In addition,
pilot sewerage projects were initiated in Jakarta and Bandung. However,
annual investments in drainage (Rp 18 billion), solid waste (Rp 13 billion)
and human waste disposal (Rp 4 billion) during Repelita III were relatively
small given the large backlog, and much remains to be done to improve environ-
mental sanitation in urban areas.
1.06      With regard to urban water supply, considerable progress was made
during Repelita III due to the "Basic Needs Approach" (BNA) adopted by the
Government, which provided piped water to some 1.6 million families (8.6 mil-
lion people) in 460 towns and cities with a population over 20,000. The BNA
program aimed to achieve a target of 60% of the urban population to be served
with an average of 60 liters per capita per day. The largest portion (more
than 30%) of urban services expenditures in Repelita III was devoted to water
supply, and overall production of water increased from 20,000 liters per
second (lps) under Repelita II to over 30,000 lps during the Repelita III
period.
1.C7      In addition to the infrastructure programs described above, Lhe
Government developed a program of serviced sites to partially accommodate the
growth of the ul--an population. Though this program remains quite modest in
relation to overall needs, the National Urban Development Corporation
(PERUMNAS) has steadily increased its capabilities, raising its output from
70,000 units under Repelita II to a targetted 120,000 units under Repe-
lita III. Most of these units, of which half are serviced sites, are
affordable by low-income families. In addition, the National Savings Bank
(Bank Tabungan Negara), designated by the Government as the key financial
intermediary in the housing sector, has provided mortgage finance for more
than 90,000 units built by private developers.
Sector Issues
1.08      The Government achieved a significant expansion of urban services
during Repelita III, and intends to continue this trend in Repelita IV, while
addressing a number of sectoral issues. The issues that would receive
/2   For Jakarta (1977-78), Surabaya (1982), Cirebon, Bogor, Tanggerang and
Bekasi (CIBOTABEK, 1980-83); Studies were conducted under the supervision
of Cipta Karya.



- 4 -
increasing attention during Repelita IV are discussed fully in the previously
mentioned urban sector report recently completed by the Bank. These issues,
which would be addressed in part by the proposed project, include the
following:
(a)  Basic KIP programs need to be complemented by investment in macro
infrastructure (particularly drainage and solid waste); the large
and medium-sized cities in particular need to develop integrated
urban development programs;
(b) In order for local government to play a more prominent role in
implementing urban programs (which have largely been executed by
central authorities), local planning and implementation capacity
needs to be strengthened;
(c) Because central government funds are presently more limited than
during the recent period of high oil revenues, the administrative
efficiency of municipal (and provincial) governments in the areas of
financial planning, programming and management needs to be
strengthened; and
(d) Local governments need to finance a greater share of their
investments with local resources; hence, locally generated revenues
need to be augmented to finance urban services and inter-
governmental fiscal relationships need to be clarified and
streamlined.
B. Bank Sector Lending Strategy, Rationale and Past Experience
1.09      Bank lending in the sector is aimed at helping the Government plan
and implement an expanded program for the delivery of basic urban services to
Indonesia's growing urban population. A key objective of the Bank's involve-
ment has been to assist GOI in formulating its overall program and policies
for the sector, which can be supported not only by the Bank but also by other
external financing agencies. Many of the concepts developed under various
Bank projects - particularly those related to KIP and sites and services
programs - have been incorporated by the Government in its five-year devel-
opment (Repelita) plans. The recently completed Bank sector study included an
evaluation of past programs and identified the key sectoral issues or priori-
ties which were outlined in the previous section (para. 1.09). The findings
of this study are being used by the Government in formulating the Repelita IV
urban program and the Bank is expected to provide continued advice and asstst-
ance in these areas. The present project would serve as a vehicle for the
Bank's continued dial,ue with the Government, and would contribute to the
development of sector lending for basic urban services, as proposed for water
supply and housing. In particular, it would establish more effective
mechanisms for implementing urban investments by: (a) facilitating field
implementation through clearer definition of the respective roles of 'central
and local governments; (b) streamlining project funding arrangements; and
(c) strengthening local governments as well as key central agencies, such as
Cipta Karya and PUOD. Sector lending for urban services would necessarily
involve Cipta Karya in the technical evaluation and supervision of municipal
investment proposals and PUOD in the appraisal of municipal finaxces. These
functions could be performed in a separate but coordinated fashion, or even-



- 5
tually institutionalized in a single entity such as a Municipal Development
Board in which both- central agencies and local and provineial governments
would take an active role (to be outlined in the Bank's forthcoming Urban
Services Sector Report).
1.10      Since 1974, thu Bank has supported the Government's programs of
kampung improvement, water supppLy and sanitation and low lncolne sites and
services housing through four loans for urban development (Loans 1040, 1336,
1653 and 1972-IND amounting to $174.5 million), one loanl for sewerage and
sanitation (Loart 2236-IND) for $22.4 million) and three loans for water supply
(Loan 1049, 1709 and 2275-IND amounting to $80.6 million). The first two
urban projects and the first water supply project ate now completed (with a
satisfactory implementation experience) and the third urban project is nearinpg
completion. A key difficulty faced in some of the more recent projects, where
the central governnent is heavily involved in financing and execution of the
programs, has been the overly centralized impLementation structure and the
resulting inefficiencies. Remedial measures are proposed'. in the present pro-
ject in implementation and flow of funds arrangements in order to minimize
these problems (para. 2.19). The Project Performance Audit Report for the
first urban project (PPAR, Report No. 4620) highlighted deficiencies in the
operation and maintenance of certain facilities (particularly the public
toilets and water taps). Experience in different cities has indicated that
these problems can be substantially reduced through active community partici-
pation and routine monitoring of the facilities. Also, maintenance is a
general problem in most cities due to insufficiently trained staff and inade-
quate funding, organization and management. The municipal management and
technical assistance programs provided under the proposed project would
address some of these problems. The PPAR for the first urban project also
commented on the low level of direct cost recovery for KIP under that project.
Indirect cost recovery of basic urban infrastructure investments (such as KIP)
through increases in local revenues (particularly the property tax) has been
the Government's policy supported by the Bank under the past projects. Given
the need to provide basic urban services while at the same time removing the
weaknesses in the local taxation system, the proposed project would continue
past efforts to improve mur.icipal revenue generation through technical assist-
ance (para. 2.12 c). Under the Third Urban Development Project, the Bank sup-
ported improvements in property tax collection in Surabaya, focussing specifi-
cally on assessment rates, documentation, cadastral surveys and training of
land valuers. A more recent study, initiated in November 1983 under the
Fourth Urban Development Project, would review existing tax and revenue struc-
tures in six project cities and propose revisions in their assessment and col-
lection mechanisms. Local resource mobilization would remain an important
long-range institutionLal goal of Bank involvement in the sector.
II.  PROJECT COMPONENTS, COST AND FINANCING
A. Background and Objectives
Background
2.01      The four project cities - namely, Surabaya, Seina,rang, Surakarta and
Ujung Pandang - are among the ten largest cities in Indonesia after Jakarta.



- 6 -
With a combined population of about 4.5 million, these four cities comprise
about 29% of the total urban population in the top ten cities.  The rationale
for selection of these cities was inEluenced by two major faetors:  (a) the
importance of the cities as provincial capitalG or economic growtlh centers
with large populations; and (b) the need to expand the basic urban services
programs/in these cities commenced under the Trhird Urban Development
Project./-  A brief description of the four project cities' urban development
profiles is presented in annex 1. The physical components of thie project were
prepared by Cipta Karya during September 1981 - July 1983 in consultation with
local governments of the project cities, and wit}l consultants' assistance
financed under the Third Urban Development Project. The preparation of corn-
plementary municipal management progv:ams was undertaken with tlle involvement
of PUOD and the Ministry of Finance. tn interdepartmental group, consisting
of members from BAPPENAS, Ministry of Finance, Cipta Karya and PUOD reviewed
the overall scope of the project in August 1983 for the Government's
subsequent approval. Further work related to detailed design of the compo-
nents and associated project implementation arrangement is currently under
way. The location of the project cities and the project components are shown
in the attached maps (IBRD 17528-31).
Project Objectives
2.02      The project would have the following objectives:
(a)  continued improvement of basic urban services in the predominantly
low-income neighborhoods or kampungs of the four project cities,
together with the complementary provision of solid waste and drain-
age infrastructure; and streamlining of project implementation
arrangements related to the delivery of the above services;
(b)  strengthening municipal administration in the project cities, by
improving financial planning, budgeting and management, as well as
operation and maintenance of infrastructure; and
(c)  augmenting the capacity for local resource mobilization through
improved collection of lard tax revenues (primarily the property or
IPEDA tax) and service clharges for solid waste collection.
B. Project Components
2.03      The proposed project would comprise the following components:
(a)  Kampung Improvement Program (KIP); (Base Cost - $19.7 million).
Includes the provision of basic infrastructure (total kampung area
2,430 ha) consisting of roads, footpaths, water supply, micro-
/3   Concerning the provision of basic urban services in the remaining six of
the top ten cities, the Bank has been involved in the cities of Jakarta,
(under the First, Second and Third Urban Development Projects; Loans
1040, 1336 and 1653-IND), Palembang and Banjarmasin (under the Fourth
Urban Development Project; Loan 1972-IND); the Asian Development Bank in
the cities of Medan and Bandung; and GOI in Malang with UNEP assistance.



- 7 -
drainage, sanitation, and schools and health facilities in the
selected kampungs of the four project cities;
(b)  Solid Waste Improvement Program (SWIP); _Sase Cost - $5.7 mil-
lion). Includes expansion of and improvements in citywide solid
waste collection, transfer/transport and disposal facilities in the
residential/market areas of the four project cities (affected
population - 1.1 million) with particular emphasis for improv!d
service in the KIP areas;
(c)  Drainage Improvement Program (DRIP); (Base Cost - $18.2 million).
Involves the rehabilitation of primary, secondary, and tertiary
drainage network (total catchment area - 5,230 ha) in the cities of
Surabaya, Semarang and Ujung Pandang aimed to provide flood-relief
in the low-lying kampung and commercial. areas; and the establishment
of a citywide operation and maintenan.e drainage program;
(d)  Municipal Management Improvement Programs (Base Cost - $2.1 mil-
lion). Includes the development and implementation of programs and
training in each of the project cities in the areas of (i) financial
rlanning, budgeting, accou ting and management for key municipal
agencies (200 man-months);-4 (ii) improved administration of oper-
ation and maintenance Drograms for citywide infrastructure and cost
recovery for solid waste collection (167 man-months); and (iii) as-
sessment and revenue collection improvements for land development
taxes (66 man-months); and
(e)  Technical Assistance (Base Cost - $3.7 million).  Consists of:
(i) project execution-related engineering, management and advisory
services to the project implementing units at city level (144 man-
months), project management units at the provincial level (216 man-
months), and to Cipta Karya (24 man months); and financial services
(lumpsum) for the auditing of project accounts; (ii) strengthening
of the project preparation capacity of Cipta Karya (36 man-months);
and (iii) preinvestment and feasibility studies (300 man-months) for
future projects.
C. Project Description
Kampung Improvement Program
2.04      The Kampung improvement program (KIP) under the proposed project has
been designed along the lines of similar Bank-supported projects in eleven
major Indonesian cities to date covering a total area of about 10,000 ha and
benefitting a total population of about 3.75 million. KIP involves the pro-
/4   Management problems concerning other key agencies such as the municipal
water enterprises (PDAMS) are being addressed separately through various
GOI programs funded by bilakteral and multilateral agencies including the
Bank. Example of Bank-assisted projects on PDAM management are the
Second Water Supply Project (Loan 1709-IND) and the First East Java Water
Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND).



vision of integrated basic urban services such as roads, foot-paths, drainage,
public waLer taps, communal washing, bathing and toilet facilities (MCKs),
garbage collection, elemLentary schools and primary health care centers. Well
established nationwide in more than 200 cities to date, the success of KIP is
attributable to the adoption of a policy kramework with the following salient
features: (a) minimal social disruption to the kampung residents affected by
the physical provisions; (b) community involvement in the various stages of
planning, implementation and maintenance of facilities (particularly the com-
munity taps and toilets); (c) project execution principally by the local
governments; and (d) an emphasis on low-cost standards which are replcable
citywide.  The accelerated pace of KIP coverage A as also been a major deter-
minant in its wide acceptance among the public.- As an additional element of
the policy framework, the more recent KIP programs have also stressed the need
for securing tenure through the issuance of registration or occupancy certi-
ficates to families living on government-owned lands. This is being accom-
plished under the auspices of the national land registration programs (PRONA),
currently executed by the Directorate General of Agraria, Dalam Negeri.
2.05      Physical Scope  The physical scope of KIP under the proposed urban
project is summarized below:
Table II-l: PROPOSED SCOPE OF KIP COMPONENT
Average
Estimated    Range of         cost
Targeted    No. of   % of total    no. of        population   per capita
kampung    kampungs    kampung        bene-        density      (Jan '84
city          area, ha   upgraded       area       ficiaries    persons/ha    prices) $
Surabaya           930          31          32       304,000      200-450            25
Semarang           600          33          29       :07,000      200-400            25
Surakarta          400          28          38        78,000      150-250            36
Ujung Pandang      500          18          50       171,000      200-425             22
Total      2,430         110           -        760,000            -            28
The total KIP coverage in the project citi g as a result of the proposed pro-
ject and the earlier Bank-funded projects - is roughly estimated to be 67% of
/5   Given a vast backlog of basic urban services in the kampungs which is
typical for most Indonesian cities, the need to expand KIP as rapidly as
practicable is evident. Past experiernce indicates that the desirable
phasing for KIP for major Indonesian cities, from the viewpoints of
sustained public support, local implenentation capacity and financial
constraints, would vary between 10 to 12 years during which most service
backlogs as well as incremental service needs arising from urban growth
factors could be satisfactorily met.



the overall requirements for Surabaya, 44% for Semarang, 54% for Surakarta and
70% for U.jung Pandang. Physical provisions proposed under KIP and the service
standards are indicated in Annex 2. These estimates are based on past experi-
ence and field surveys of the kampungs. Particularly significant of the KIP
are the environm.ental sanitation subcomponents (drainage, human waste and
solid waste disposal) comprising about 40% of the overall KIP program on cost
basis.
Solid Waste Improvement Program
2.06      The proposed solid waste improvement program (SWIP) is principal'.y
aimed at operating and managing improved solid waste. collection, trans-rrt and
disposal systems that provide for reliable ongoing service citywide.
Protection of public health through the adoption of containerized garbage col-
lection and avoidance of oven dumps would be emphasized under SWIP. The
development strategy for SWIP, which was initiated under the Bank-financed
third urban project in the cities of Jakarta and Surabaya,- includes the fol-
lowing elements:
(a) Physical. Improved household and market garbage collection methods,
transfer stations, the acquisition and maintenance of suitable
vehicles and equipment ranging from handcarts to large capacity
trucks and the use of sanitary landfill schemes for disposal;
(b) Institutional. Improved cost recovery for the commercial and resi-
dential areas and introduction of improved accounting systems in the
city cleansing departments. Specific assistance in the above areas
would be provided under the municipal management component of the
project (para. 2.12); and
(c) Public Relations. Launching of awareness campaigns to publicize the
goals of SWIP and the needs for public participation.
2.07      Physical Scope.  Population coverage of the existing solid waste
collection systems in the project cities ranges from 25% for Ujung Pandang to
about 63% for Surabaya. The proposed SWIP is aimed at benefitting an incre-
-mental population of about 325,000 in Surabaya (or 15% additional population
coverage), 275,000 in Semarang (or 25% additional population coverage),
162,000 in Surakarta (or 32% additional poDulation coverage), and 300,000 in
Ujung Pandang (or 43% additional population coverage). SWIP would also
include the servicing of most market areas in the cities which are currently
/6   The Second Urban Project (Loan 1336-IND) involved a KIP coverage of about
415 ha (population 230,000) for Surabaya during 1976-79. KIP coverage
under the Third Urban Project (Loan 1653-IND) during the period 1979-83
was as follows: Surabaya - 800 ha (population 350,000); Semarang -
320 ha (population 98,000); Surakarta - 190 ha (population 53,000) and
Ujung Pandang - 380 ha (population 140,000).
/7   SWIP improvements for Jakarta and Surabaya under the Third Urban Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1653-IND) were aimed to benefit a population of about
1.5 million, and 500,000 respectively.



- 10 -
unserviced or only poorly serviced. The coverage and scope of proposed SWIP
are further illustrated in the accompanying Table II-2.
2.08      A summary of the physical provisions under SWIP is presented in
Annex 3. These provisions are estimated on the following basis: (a) for
Surabaya SwrP, the continued use of the solid waste systems from the Third Ur-
ban Project involving the use of garbage carts, transfer depots (100-300 sq m
sites) and hydraulic trucks (roll arm type) with 6 and 10 cum containers would
be assumed; and (b) for the remaining three cities, the recommended systems
would include the use of garbage carts with bins, 120 lit and 240 lit mobile
containers, streetside transfer stations (15 to 120 sq m sites), side-loading
compaction trL('ks of 7.5 cum and 11.5 cum capacity and dump trucks of 8 cum
capacity. Other solid waste transport alternatives involving the use of roll
arm and tipper trucks would also be tested in the three cities to facilitate
the selection of the most suitable method. As regards the disposal alterna-
tive, the sanitary land fill method which has proven to be cost-effective in
the Indonesian context, would be emphasized for the cities.
Table II-2: PROPOSED SCOPE OF SWIP COMPONENT
Ujung
Item                                   Surabaya   Semarang  Surakarta  Pandang
Current quantity of solid
waste generated
Households (cu m/day)                  6,336      3,200       1,440      2,325
Markets (cu m/day)                       864        405         300         120
Total                             7,200      3,605       1,740       2,445
Existing population (million)              2.2        1.1         0.5         0.7
Current population with solid
waste collection system (million)        1.4        0.5        0.25         0.2
Proposed SWIP
Desi-in population (million)           0.325     0.275       0.162          0.3
Design quantities
Households (cu m/day)                  900       825         486         900
Markets (cu m/day)                     600       405         300         120
Total                             1,500      1,230         786       1,020
Drainage Improvement Program
2.09      Surface drainage in the project cities is generally poor and stems
mainly from a relatively flat coastal topography aggravated by accumulated
blockages in the canals. The specific goals of the proposed drainafg improve-
ment program (DRIP) in the three project cities (except Surakarta) -  are as
follows: (a) serve the immediate and near-term needs for urban drainage



- 11 
improvements in the city with priority accorded to the flood-prone kampung
areas; (b) establish an appropriate operation and maintenance program for the
citywide drainage network in collaboration with other government agencies
involved (irrigation and water supply agencies, for example); and (c) streng-
then the City Public Works Departments in the areas of operation and mainte-
nance of the drainage facilities (to be accomplished under the municipal
management component of the project) (see para. 2.12). The proposed DRIP for
Surabaya would constitute the second phase of improveme?6s to the drainage
system commenced earlier under the Third Urban Project.-
2.10      Physical Scope.  It is estimated that the DRIP component would pro-
vide flood relief in about 3,000 ha residential/commercial areas in Surabaya,
about 1,230 ha in Ujung Pandang and about 1,000 ha in Semarang. An approxi-
mate 1.2 million residents in the three cities would be benefitted directly
from this program. DRIP would alleviate the flooding problems in the cities
through mainly rehabilitaL.7'g the existing primary, secondary and tertiary
drainage network.  Tyhs would include (a) the removal of the debris and sludge
from the waterways -   (b) widening of the canal sections to augment capacity;
(c) lining of canals for reducing frictional losses to improve flow hydrau-
lics; and (d) replacement or relocation of the flow-control structures (such
as sluices and gates etc.). Establishment of a routine operation and mainten-
ance program for tYhe citywide drainage system, including the purchase of
cleaning equipment, would also be accomplished under the project. It is
envisaged that the adoption of the recommended drainage maintenance pr-gram,
together the execution of a citywide SWIP under the project, should minimize
the future accumulation of debris in the canals. A summary of the major civil
works under the DRIP is presented below. Annex 4 provides an overview of the
procurement requirements for the DRIP.
/8   Certain major drainage improvements were executed in Surakarta in 1978
with Cipta Karya's funds. A drainage study (para. 2.1 (e) of text) would
be carried out under the proposed project to identify additional drainage
needs for the city.
/9   The urainage improvements in Surabaya under the Third Urban Development
Project (Loan 1653-IND) included the provision of four drainage pumping
stations and rehabilitation of about 6 kms of primary/secondary canals.
/10  The excavated sludge would be transported to the nearest low-lying
coastal dump sites for satisfactory disposal.



- 12 -
Table II-3: PROPOSED SCOPE FOR DRIP COMPONENT
Estimated
City                           Drainage-Network                length of canals
(km)
Surabaya                 Primary/s,condary/tertiary                 45 /a
Semarang                 Primary/sk zoadary/tertiary                72
Ujung Pandang            Secondary/ :ertiary                        43 /b
/a   Major improvements to certain primary canals in the city have been under-
way since 1977 with Japanese assistance.
/b   Major improvement to the primary canals will be funded by Japanese Aid
programs (likely starting date: early 1985).
Municipal Management Programs
2.11      The Bank has, under previous projects, supported efforts to improve
the relatively weak revenue-collection performance at Indonesian cities
(para. 1.10). In addition, the Bank supported (under the Third Urban Project)
a planning, prograaming and budgeting study in Surabaya which tocussed on the
organization, staffing and coordination role of various municipal agencies in
relation to the urban program needs of the city. The above studies have indi-
cated areas of immediate concern where further improvement and technical
assistance is necessary, including on the one hand, the areas of land taxa-
tion, assessment and revenue collection practices, and on the other hand,
financial planniing, budgeting and accounting, and the administration of key
service departments such as public works and cleansing. Improving the effect-
iveness at municipal administration is one of the stated institutional goals
for the Repelita IV plan period.
2.12      The municipal management programs under the proposed project are
intended to foster urban institutional development with a medium- to long-term
objective of promoting self-reliance on the part of the cities in providing
urban services on a sustained basis. The design of this component is princi-
pally based on experience gained from earlier urban projects noted in
para. 2.11 above. Specifically, this component would address administrative
and financial deficiencies in project cities in the areas of (i) financial
planninf, budgeting, control and accounting, involving key municipal agen-
cies;,/ l  (ii) operation and maintenance of citywide road, drainage and solid
waste infrastructure, and improved cost recovery for solid waste collection;
/11  These agencies would principally include the Development Planning and
Coordination Board (BAPPEDA), Directorates of Finance (Keuangan) and
Development Supervision, the Revenue Collection Department (Dinas
Pendapatan or Dipenda), and the Service Departments (Public Works and
Cleansing).



- 13 -
and (iii) improvements in land tax assessments and coLlection.  Long-term
studies in the above areas -- spanning a two-to-three-year period -- would be
undertaken by PUOD and the Directorates General of Domestic Monetary Alfairs
and Taxation (Ministry of Finance) in coordination with the local governments,
and with assistance from consultants. The studies would involve the follow-
ing:  (i) review of existing F;ystems, anid their linkages to provincial/central
government programs; (ii) formulation and implementation of improved systems
in the project cities; (iii) monitoring and evaLuation of the implementation
experience; and (iv) recommendation of national guidelines for Larger scale
adoption as appropriate.  The principal study elements for the proposed muni-
cipal management programs together with the approximate breakdown between
foreign and loceil man-months are summarized as follows:
(a)  Financial Planning, Budgeting and Management (Total:  200 man-months
of which 40 man-months foreign) (i) establishnent of medium-term
(3 year) rolling programs in financial and physical termis;
(ii) improved program planning between the city development coor-
dination agency (BAPPEDA), and the sectoral and finance agencies;
(iii) development of improved financial accounting, cost-accounting,
and financial control systems; and (iv) forniulatic,n of management
information systems;
(b)  Infrastructure Operation and Maintenance 94anagermert (Total:
167 man-months of which 30 man-months foreign):  (L) inventorying of
citywide operational and maintenance requirements, cost accounting
and resource planning; (ii) review of service departments'
organization, staffing and budget; (iii) establishment of management
systems for planning, programming, execution and control of annuaL
operational and maintenance activities; and (iv) production of
operational and maintenance manuals for infrastructure and
equipment; (v) improved cost recovery mechanisms of citywide solid
waste collection and their implementation arrangements;
(c)  Land Taxes Assessment and Administration (Total:  66 mani-months of
which 16 man-months foreign):  (i) establishment of implementation
measures for improved assessment, collection and administration of
the IPEDA property tax; (ii) training of IPEDA staff in the areas of
cadastral surveys, documentation and valuation; and (iii) identifi-
cation of new sources of land development taxes (such as betterment
tax).
It is envisaged that qualified local firms, working in asscciation with
foreign firms as appropriate, would be engaged as lead firms for conducting
the above studies.
2.13      Detailed terms of reference for municipal management studies were
prepared during appraisal and reviewed at negotiations.  An outline of the
terms of reference is presented in Annex 5.
Technical Assistance
2.14      The principal objectives of this component would be two-fold:
(a) facilitate the implementation of the proposed project through the pro-
vision of engineering, management and advisory services to the concerned exe-



- 14 -
cuting agencies; and (b) assist the government with the undertaking of pre-
investment and feasibility studies in the urtan sector for the development of
future urban projects suitable for financing from domestic or foreign
sources. On-the-job training would be an integral part of the technical
assistance package. An outline of the terms of reference, agreed with Cipta
Karya, is presented in Annex 6. Following are the man-month estimates of the
proposed assistance with the approximate breakdown of local and foreign
services:
(a)  Assistance to the city leval Project Implementation Units
(para. 3.04) (144 man-months local) for project execution,
specifically in the areas of SWIP/sanitation procurement and
construction supervision;
(b)  Management assistance to the provincial Project Management Units
(para. 3.04) (216 man-months of which 72 man-months foreign) in the
areas of monitoring of project progress and finance, supervision of
project accounting systems and establishment of management informa-
tion systems for the project;
(c)  Advisory services to Cipta Karya directorates (24 man-months
foreign) on matters related to the execution of SWIP/ sanitation
programs and on policy planning in solid waste and related sectors;
(d)  Assistance to Cipta Karya's Planning Unit (36 man-months foreign)
for strengthening of its project preparation capacity in che areas
of project identification, preparation and appraisal;
(e)  Assistance for (i) Surakarta drainage feasibility studies (150 man-
months local); and (ii) sector-related, pre-investment and urban
feasibility studies (L50 man-months local) in selected provinces
(East-Java and South Sulawesi, for example) and cities; and
(f) Auditing services to project executing agencies (lump sum basis;
local) for the audit of project accounts.
2.15      The recommended timeframe for consultants' selection for carrying-
out the municipal management programs and technical assistance is presented in
Annex 7. The above schedule, together with the requisite arrangements regard-
ing the timely appointment of consultants were agreed at negotiations.
D. Project Costs and Financing Plan
2.16      Project Costs.  The total project cost is estimated to be about
US$64.4 million (inclusive of taxes) with a foreign exchange component of
about 38% or about $25.1 million. Taxes are estimated at $1.1 million. Sum-
mary cost estimates are shown in Table II-4 with the detailed breakdown pre-
sented in Annex 8. Project costs are based on advanced preliminary and
detailed engineering designs for the physical components (para. 3.07) and on
the estimated consultant manpower requirements for the municipal management
and technical assistance components. Base costs are expressed in January 1984
prices, and escalated for (i) a physical contingency factor of up to 15% for
SWIP and DRIP components (no physical contingencies are provided for the KIP
component since the volume of works and the standards for KIP are governed by



- 15 -
a target unit price per ha agreed for each city; see kinex 2 for details); and
(ii) price contingencies assumed as 12% in 1984, 102 in 1985-87, 9% in 1988
and 7% in 1989-90 for local costs, and 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9% in 1.986-
88, 7.5% in 1989 and 6% in 1990 for foreign costs. Total man-months estimates
for consulting services are estimated at 433 man-months (347 local and 86
foreign man-months) for the municipal management programs and 720 man-months
(588 local and 132 foreign man-months) for the technical assistance component.
Consulting services contracts, about 1/3 of which would involve association of
local firms with foreign individuals/firms, are based on an average man-month
cost of $11,000 for foreign consultants and $3,500 for local consultants. The
above cost also includes provision for local transportation, vehicles and
equipment and office space.
Table 11-4:  SUMMARY OF TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Rp million or $'000                 %
Category                               Local        Foreign   Total          foreign
Kampung Improvement Program /a             12,969        6,680      19,649            34
Solid Waste Improvement /a
Program (SWIP)                           1,494         4,251       5,745            74
Drainage improvement /a
Program (DRIP)                          11,829         6,369      18,198            35
Municipal management
improvement                               1,256          900       2,156            50
Technical assistance                       2,478         1,200       3,678            33
Base Cost (Jan. '84 prices)               30,026        19,400      49,426            39
Physical contingencies                      1,086           534      1,620            33
Price contingencies                        8,213         5,066      13,279            38
Total project cost /b                   39,325        25,000      64,325            38
Bank front-end fee                              -            98         98
Total Financing Required                39,325        25,098      64,423
/a   Includes land, civil works, equipment and administration costs.
/b   Incl.udes taxes amounting to $1.1 million.
2.17      Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of $39.25 million would
finance the total foreign exchange requirements ($25.1 million) including the



- l6 -
front-end fee ($0.1 million) and about 36% of the local costs ($14.1 million).
The Bank loan would be made to the Government of Indonesia for a period of
Z0 years including five years grace at the standard variable interest rate.
Part ($10.5 million) of the total loan proceeds would be retained by the cen-
tral government for (i) financing the municipal management programs ($2.7 mil-
lion); ('i) technical assistance services ($4.6 million); (iii) detailed de-
sign and engineering costs of DRIP programs ($2.0 million); and (iv) construe-
tion of a portion of Ujung Pandang drainage ($1.2 million). The remaining
Bank loan ($28.7 million) would be relent to the four project cities
($28.0 million) and the provincial government of South Sulawesi ($0.7 million)
under the subsidiary loans with the repayment period identical to that of the
Bank loan. The provincial government of South Sulawesi would in turn pass the
subsidiary loan amount to the city of Ujung Pandang on a grant basis - for
secondary drainage construction under the DRIP. The interest rate of the sub-
sidiary loans would be a fixed rate of 10% (in contrast to the variable rate
of the Bank loan) to avoid administrative complexity. The above on-lending
rate is considered appropriate in light of the social and inititutional devel-
opment objectives of the project. Execution of a satisfactory subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and each project city and the provincial
government of South Sulawesi would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank
loan. The government contributions totalling $25.2 million would be comprised
of Cipta Karya grants ($7.2 million), provincial government grants ($4.8 mil-
lion), and cities' contributions ($13.2 million). Following is a summary
financing plan for each component! the detailed financing plan by city and
component is presented in Annex 9. Xasurances were obtained during negotia-
tioas that Cipta Karya, and the provincial and local governments of the pro-
ject cities would make their funds available in a timely manner for project
implementation.
Table II-5:  SUMMARY OF FINANCING SCHEME
Rp million or $' 000
Grants
Froject            Est.       Bank                   Provincial           Local
component          cost       loan           GOI    governments        governments
KIP             25,420       12,944        3,768         2,305           6,403
SWIP             7,719        5,510            -             -           2,209
DRIP            23,899       13,408        3,466         2,453           4,572
Municipal
management
programs       2,690        2,690            -             -                -
Technical
assistance    4,597         4,597            _             _                _
Total       64,325       39,149        7,234         4,758
/a   Total Bank Loan = 39.15 + 0.1 (FEF) = $39.25 million.



- 17 -
2.18      As with the Third Urban Development Project, the cost-sharing
rationale for the project cities was formulated on the basis of their contin-
ued willingness to undertake financial obligations and responsibilities for
the capital works procurement, commensurate with their evaluated financial
strength. Total subsidies for capital works procurement under the project
would amount to only 25% of the costs, the remaining 75% being borne by the
city governments in the form of cash contributions and B3ank loan commit-
ments. In addition to thus maintaining a desirable financing scheme represen-
ting a high degree of fiscal responsibility at the city levels, the project
would strive for an improved utilization of the grant funds from central and
provincial governments) through facilitated fund channeling (see following
paragraph) and field implementation arrangements (para. 3.04).
2.19      Flow of Grant Funds.  Under the third and fourth Bank-financed urban
projects, GOI's grant funds for KIP programs (representing as much as 50% of
the total KIP costs) were channelled through as many as three or four budge-
tary allocations of Cipta Karya. This resulted in the involvement of a simi-
lar number of project implementation units in the field and the consequent
fragmentation of the implementation responsibili~fes between these units and
the locally established KIP units in the cities.-   A similar situation
existed with regard to the provision of provincial government grants for KIP
which also resulted in a less-than-efficient field execution of KIP. To over-
come such problems with regard to the utilization of grant funds,the following
measur-s have been agreed with Cipta Karya and PUOD for the proposed pro-
ject: (i) all Cipta Karya grants would be pooled into a single budgetary
source; (ii) all provincial government funds would be channelled directly to
the city budget as a financial grant; and (iii) project implementation respon-
sibilities would be delegated to city level, irrf=spective of the funding
source. It is envinaged that the above arrangements for KIP - which would
also be applicable to the similarly-funded DRIP component - should facilitate
execution arrangements.
III. PROJECT ORGANIZATION. EXECUTION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Executing Agencies
3.01      Project impiementation would be principally focused at the city
level and make maximum use of existing local government agencies in the
cities. Supervision of project execution would be the overall responsibility
/12  The most-effective approach to alleviate this problem would require the
passing of GOI's grants directly to the cities as financial grants in-
stead of project grants, as is currently the practice. Existing statutory
mechanisms do not, however, readily provide this flexibility for budge-
tary grants. As indicated in the Bank urban sector study report (see
Footnote 1 on page 1 of this appraisal report), the central government
should seriously consider introducing appropriate changes in the current
system of providing grants to the cities and their channeling and
utilization aspects.



- 18 -
of Cipta Karya with PUOD providing the supportive role. A summary of the
principal Project execution responsibilities by component is shown below:
Project Components                         Executing Agency
1.  Kampung improvement program            KIP unit/Local Government
2.  Solid waste management program         Cleansing Department/Local Government
3.  Drainage improvement program           Public Works Department (PWD)/Local
Government
4.  MuniciDal management programs          Directorate General of PUOD (in
coordination with the Directorates
General of Taxation and Domestic
Monetary Affairs/Miuiistry of Finance
and the Local Governments)
5.  Technical assistance                   Directorate General of Cipta Karya
(in coordination with PUOD and Local
Governments).
3.02      All executing agencies noted above are long-established institutions
and except for the PWDs in Surakarta, Semarang and Ujung Pandang have worked
with the Bank on one or more projects in the past. Following are the key
divisions of the executing agencie-s that will be directly involved in project
execution. The inter-relationships among the executing agencies and other
related agencies at the central, provincial and municipal levels are schemati-
cally presented in Chart 1.
(a)  Directorate General Cipta Karya, MPW is principally responsible for
the administration, execution and technical supervision of national
urban programs (mostly KIP, water supply and environmental sanita-
tion) through the involvement of its two Directorates, namely, the
Directorate of Housing and the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering
(DSE), and the Planning Division of Cipta Karya's secretariat.
(Effective FY 84/85, DSE will be split into two separate Direc-
torates, namely the Directorate of Water Supply, and the Directorate
of Environmental Sanitation; and the Planning Division of the
Secretariat will be elevated to the Directorate status). The
Directorate of Housing, with a total staff of about 300 - including
80 core professionals - is principally responsible for funding as
well as executing centrally-funded KIP programs ('PERINTIS KIP').
The DSE is comprised of a larger number of staff, about 1,600, of
whom 350 are professionals engaged in the task of executing national
water supply and sanitation programs through their special project
units in the field. The central government's grant funds for KIP
and DRIP under the proposed project would be channeled through the
respective budgetary allocations of the Directorate of Housing and
DSE with the field execution responsibilities being delegated to the
local governments. The principal responsibilities of the above di-
rectorates under the project would involve the supervision of KIP,
SWIP and DRIP, with regard to the policy and technical matters, and
the execlition of the technical assistance programs through consult-
ants (para. 2.14). As with other projects aided by bilateral and
multilateral agencies, the Planning Division of Cipta Karya's
Secretariat would have the oversight responsibility with regard to



- 19 -
overall project administration and utilization of rthe Bank loan on
behalf of the Director General of Cipta Karys.
(b)  Directorate General PUOD, Dalamn Negeri is concernied with the admin-
istration and staffing of local governments and their budgets, and
overall development programs. The proposed project would involve
two of its directorat'es, namely, the Directorate of Urban Develop-
ment (core professional staff -- 25), and the Directorate of Regional
finance (core professional staff - 29). The Directorate of Urban
Development would have the lead responsibility for supervising the
administrative and firiancial. aspects of project execution at the
local and provincial levels (para. 3.04), and for the implementation
of the municipal management programs in the project cities
(para. 2.12) in collaboration with the Directorate General of Taxa-
tion (which would carry out thie Land Taxation Study) and the Direc-
torate General of Domestic Monetary Affairs (which would carry out
the Financial Planning and Management Study).
(c)  The local governments of the four project cities vary in size
between 1800 (Surabaya) and 450 (Surakarta) employees but have a
similar organizational structure as depicted in Chart 2. The execu-
tion of the proposed project would involve the following key muni-
cipal agencies:
(i)  the Department of Public Works (PWD) and the Department of
Cleansing, the former being concerned with roads, drainage and
public buildings and the latter with municipal solid waste
collection and management; and
(ii) the KIP units which are the special project units responsible
for implementing citywide KIP projects and coordinating the
involvement of various sectoral agencies (particularly, the
Department of City Planning, PWD and the local water supply
enterprise) in project execution.
3.03      Efforts have been underway since 1976 to strengthen the institu-
tional capabilities of Cipta Karya in the areas of policy and project planning
and administration of nationwide sectoral programs. Ongoing Bank-financed
management efforts, specifically directed at Cipta Karya, include assistance
to the Directorate of Housing (under the Third Urban Development Project) and
DSE (under the three water supply projects to date), and to the Planning Divi-
sion of Cipta Karya Secretariat (under the Fourth Urban Development Pro-
ject). DSE is also currently benefitting from technical assistance in the
sanitation sector provided by WHO and the Australian Government. PUOD, which
has thus far assumed only a relatively minor role in the execution of urban
projects, would have the major responsiblity of implementing the proposed
municipal mana-ement programs under the project wit'a assistance from finance
and public administration consultants to be appointed. As for the capabili-
ties of the cities, their project implementation experience varies consider-
ably with the typical annual development expendituras for locally-executed
works ranging between Rp 3,000 million ($3.1 millioi) for Surakarta and
Rp 16,000 million ($15.5 million) for Surabaya. Co.istraints however remain in
all cities with regard to the availability of qualified financial personnel



- 20 -
and sanitary (especially drainage) engineers.- X Assistance from seconded kanwil
and provincial government staff as well as from consultants' assistance would be
provided under the proposed project to augmnent the local capabilities and skills
in the above areas and to assist the ci.Les with the execution of the project
(para. 3.05).
B. Project Imple,mentation Arrangements
Organizational Framework
3.,0      Physical Components.  The implementation arrangements agreed with GOI
during appraisal of the project represent a significant improvement over those of
the previous urban projects with multiple funding sources, as the roles and
responsibilities of central, provincial and local agencies are more clearly
defined by the following three-tier organizational scheme (see Chart 3 for
details of the hierarchy involved).
(a)  At each city level.  Field implementation of KIP, SWIP, and DRIP woula
be the responsibility of the Project Implementation Units (PIUs),
irrespective of the funding sources involved and would be coordinated
through a Project Coordinator. He would run the Project Finance Office
(PFO) maintained in each project city (para. 3.05 (b)); and would
report to the Mayor on project progress. The Coordinator would be
guided by a Technical Steering Committee on matters related to inter-
departmental coordination and field implementation issues (such as land
acquisition and compensation arrangements, etc.) and would be
responsible to the provincial level Project Management Unit (see
following para.) on project im.sementation-related matters;
(b) At each provincial level. Management responsibility of field
implementation activities - including coordinated program plpnning for
KIP, SWIP and DRIP schemes, annual budgeting of capital works and
project progress monitoring - would be vested in the specially-formed
project-management units (PMU) at the provincial branch offices
/13 The constraints with regard to the availability of financial and techni-
cal personnel prevail nationwide. Some of these constraints are being
separately addressed by the Ministry of Education with assistance from
the Bank and other multilateral and bilateral sources in the areas of
manpower training in public works and accounting.



- 21 -
(kanwils) of MPW./14  The PMUs would also be in charge of certifying
the completed works in connection with the processing of the Bank loan
reimbursement applications. The chief of PMU. Lhrough the kanwil head,
would report to the provincial Governor and to the Director General of
Cipta Karya on matters relating to project planning and management.
The PMUs would be guided on policy matters by a Policy Steering Commit-
tee, set up at each provincial level and represented by members of the
central and concerned provincial/local governments; and
(c)  At the central level.  Policy guidance and technical supervision res-
ponsibilities with regard to application of standards, consultants'
selection and overall monitoring would continue to remain with Cipta
Karya, assisted by PUOD on project-related administrative and financial
matters (such as staffing and budget allocation, etc.).
3.05      Staffing Arrangements.  Staffing levels required to meet the project
implementation demands are summarized by city in Annex 10. Establishment of the
PIUs, PMUs and PFOs -- together with the appointment of Project Coordinators and
Chiefs of PMUs -- before July 31, 1984 and their key staffing arrangements have
been discussed with Cipta Karya and PUOD during appraisal and agreed at negotia-
tions. Following is a summary of the staffing arrangements:
(a)  PIUs.  The existing KIP units in the four project cities, whic1 ave
been functioning satisfactorily under the Third Urban Project,- would
be continued with their current staff levels (varying between 30 for
Surakarta and 50 for Surabaya). The SWIP and DRIP project units,
expected to be established by July 31, 1984 within the respective
sectoral departments of the local governments (Public Works and Clean-
sing Department), would be identical, respectively, to Surabaya's
existing SWIP and DRIP units formed under the Third Urban Development
/14 This arrangement is in line with MPW's existing "deconcentration"
arrangements for delegating field management responsibility to the pro-
vincial levels and is simi'lar to the execution schemes under the Bank-
funded East Java Water Supply Project (Loan 2275-IND; 1983), Jakarta
Sanitation and Sewerage Project (Loan 2236-IND; 1983) and the Asian
Development Bank funded urban Project for Central Java (1983). (The
proposed project, additionally seeks delegation of field implementation
responsibility-for the grant-funded KIP and DRIP components-from the
central to the municipal levels). The delegation arrangements sought
under the project would enable Cipta Karya to focus an increased atten-
tion on policy-related and technical matters concerning project
execution.
/15 The creation of special KIP project units in the cities under the earlier
projects was justified from the following viewpoints: (i) the pressing
need to effectively coordinate the various municipal sectoral departments
in the planning and implementation of KIP works; (ii) the anticipated
medium-term investment phasing (for a 10 to 12 year period) to meet
service backlogs in the kampungs; and (iii) the facilitated financing
arrangements resulting from the special project unit status accorded to
KIP unit.



- 22 -
Project. Professional staffing of the SWIP and DRIP project units
would range between 7 and 11 depending on the size of the program
involved. No major problem is foreseen with respect to the establish-
ment of the SWIP gad DRIP project units except that thA staffing of the
DRIP units would need to be strengthened, as agreed dtring appraisal,
with personnel se.conded from the provincial Cipta Kar9  and kanwil
units.
Each project unit would be composed of three divisLons, namely, the
physical and social planning division, the ccnbtruccion division, and
the administration and record keeping division. Tae planning division
would be responsible for surveying and the preparation of design and
contract documents (except in the case of DRIP for which the design and
contract documentation would be prepared by consultants and reviewed by
the DRIP project units.) The construction division would supervise the
construction in addition to certifying payments to contractors. The
administration division would handle personnel and administrative
matters including the routing of financial documents as required by the
PFOs. The field implementation of KIP, SWIP and DRIP would be the
total responsibility of the respective head for each component who
would routinely report to the Project Coordinator on project activi-
ties. To facilitate the PIUs in carrying out their functions,
consultants' assistance (Annex 0) would be provided in the are:as of (i)
procurement and construction supervision for SWIP/sanitatio:i programs
in each city; and (ii) detailed engineering, contract docu.nents
preparation and construction supervision of DRIP programs in the three
Project cities (Surabaya, Semarang and Ujung Pandang). The terms of
reference for above services were discussed during appraisal and agreed
at negotiations.
(b)  PFOs.  Project accounting systems would be maintained by the PFOs whose
principal functions would include: (a) the timely record-keeping of
all project-related financial transations (physical and non-physical
items) for KIP, SWIP, and DRIP in accordance with acceptable accounting
practices; (b) consolidated accounting of expenditures by component and
by funding source; (c) preparation of monthly/quarterly financial sum-
mary reports for review by PMUs; and (d) initiation of Bank Loan reim-
bursement applications forms (to be certified by the PMU Chief).
Staffing of the PFOs would vary between 8 to 10, comprised mainly of
financial personnel. The design of the accounting system was started
in mid-December 1983 with assistance from consultants hired under the
Third Urban Development Project. It is expe*2ted that the above system
would become operational in the project cities by July 31, 1984 and
that nominated PFO staff would be adequately trained in the system
during the interim period. Implementation of the system would be moni-
tored by consultants through the completion of FY84 fiscal year.
(c)  PMUs.  The PMU team in each project province (East Java, Central Java
and South Sulawesi) would consist of three engineering staff, one of
whom would be appointed as the Chief of the unit. The PMUs would be
established within the existing k nwil offices of the Ministry of
Public Works by July 31, 1984.  1   In addition to carrying out project
management responsibilities, the PMUs would also supervise the proper
upkeep of the project accounts at the PFOs and their timely auditing.



- 23 -
To facilitate its functions, each PMU would be assisted by a two-member
team of one management advisor and one public accountant. The terms of
reference of the above consultants were discussed at appraisal and
reviewed during negotiations. It was agreed at appraisal that the
staffing requirements of the PMUs wouLd be met through the secondment
of suitably e.cperienced personnel from the kanuil and provincial Cipta
Karya offices.
(d)  Cipta Karya Team.  As in the past, technical oversight and the overall
supervision of the project would oe the responsibilities of the Plan-
ning Unit of Cipta Karya Secretariat and the Directorate of Housing and
DSE. It was agreed that the DSE would be assisted by an advisor to
provide guidance in the implamentation of SWIP/sa.,itation and the
broader sectoral issues concerned. The terms of reference for the
above services (Annex 6) tiave been discussed with Cipta Karya and
agreed during negotiations.
3.06      Municipal Management and Technical Assistance Programs.  The Direc-
torate of Urban Development at PUOD would have the lead responsibility in imple-
menting the agreed recomnendations of the municipal management studies on. finan-
cial planning and management, and operatior  and maintenance of infrastructure
(para. 2.12). It would be assisted by the Directorate General of Taxation,
Ministry of Finance wlich would carry out studies on land taxation improvement
programs and the Directorate General of Domestic Monetary Affairs, also of the
Ministry of Finance which would carry out the financial management studies. The
operation and maintenance studies would be carried out by PUOD, in consultation
with Cipta Karya. All municipal management studies would be undertaken by con-
sultants to be engaged under the project.  The terms of reference for these
studies hlave been discussed with PUOD during appraisal and agreed during nego-
tiations. The findings of the municipal studies would be routinely reviewed by a
Technical Steering Committee consisting of members from PUOD, Cipta Karya, Direc-
torates General of Taxation and Domestic Monetary Affairs, and local govern-
ments. It is atticipated that the key findings of the municipal management stu-
dies would become available for review in mid-1987 and that PUOD in consultation
with the project cities, would begin to implement the agreed recommendations of
the studies in the following fiscal year. As to the execution of the technical
assistance programs under the project (para. 2.14), Cipta Karya would play the
lead executory role as under earlier urban projects. It would be assisted by
PUOD on studies relating to future urban programs development and projects
preparation.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
3.07      The overall project would be implemented over an approximate five-and-
half year period, April 1, 1984 through December 31, 1989. Chart 4 presents a
simplified implementation schedule for the various project components. The
annual implementation targets are more fully illustrated in Annex 11. The
/16  The PMUs, which would initially serve an "ad hoc" management function
under the proposed project can be progressively expanded withn the kanwil
structure to carry out supervision of future urban projects in other
cities of the concerned province.



- 24 -
current status of engineering of the physical components is as follows, Detailed
engineering of KIP works for the first implementation year (FY84-85) has been
completed in December, 1983 and the contracts would be tendered in JuLy, 1984
after the start of the fiscal year. Detailed designs for SWIP and DRI]' comapo-
nents for the first year would be completed by April 1984 and they are scheduled
for tendering in September, 1984 following completion of the requisite contract
documentation. The relocation program related to land acquisition for the DRIP
in Semarang and Surabaya would be finalized by September 1984. This would not
however affect the implementation of the first year works under DRIP
(para. 3.15). The scope of the work program for KIP, SWIP and DRIP for the first
implementation year (FY84-85) and the related coordination arrangements for their
execution were discussed at appraisal and further reviewed during negotiations.
It was agreed at appraisal that the PMUs, in consultation with the project
cities, would prepare and submit to the Bank for its review through Cipta Karya,
not later than four months prior to the end of each fiscal year, the proposed
annual program and financing plan for works to be undertaken for the ensuing
fiscal year and that the first such work program and financing plan would be
submitted no later than November 30, 1984.
D. Procurement
3.08      Procurement arrangements for the project are stummariz'ed in table below:
Table III-1:  PROCUREMENT OVERVIEW
($ millions)
Type of Procurement
Prudent                  Total
Project Item                   ICB     LCB        shopping      Other       Cost
Civil works                      -     37.8            -          2.9         40.7
(KIP, SWIP and DRIP)             -    (22.9)           -          (-)        (22.9)
Vehicles and Equipment          5.6     2.1           0.3          -           8.0
(SWIP and DRIP)                (5.6)   (1.2)         (0.2)         -          (7.0)
Municipal management
improvement services           -       -             -          2.7          2.7
(2.7)       (2.7)
DRIP Engineering Design
and Technical Assistance       -       -             -          6.6          6.6
(6.6)        (6.6)
Total                      5.6    39.9            0.3        12.2         58.0
(5.6)  (24.1)         (0.2)       (9.3)       (39.2)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.



- 25 -
3.09      As under previous projects, the construction of Bank-fiaanced civil
works for KIP, SWIP and DRIP components (for a total of $37.8 million) would
be procured by the current local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures of the
Government which have been found satisfactory to the Bank. Past experience
indicates that foreign firms have not been interested in bidding on these
types of works because of (i) the scattered location of the project sites
(about 150 in total); (ii) large number of small size contracts (about 300 in
total) of relatively short duration; and (iii) the competition from the rela-
tively well-established local contracting industr.y. Procurement of non Bank
financed civil works for schools and health facilities ($2.9 million) would
also be in accordance with LCB procedures. Vehicles and equipments for solid
waste disposal and drainage programs (for a total cf $5.6 million) would be
procured through international competitivc bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank's guidelines for procurement by grouping them w-henever possible into con-
tracts valued at $200,000 or more. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and taxes,
whichever is less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Contracts of
less than $200,000 in value involving minor equipment - such as hand carts and
bins ($1.6 million) for solid waste collection, and maintenance tools
($0.5 million) for drainage - would be purchased through LCB procedures. For
equipments of less than $50,000 per contract, prudent shopping would be per-
mitted on the basis of at least three price quotations. Consultant's services
for municipal management and technical assistance programs would be packaged
to suit administrative and geographical location factors and would be obtained
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.10      All vehicle/equipment contracts over $200,000 would be subject to
Bank's prior review of procurement documentation, wahich would cover about 80%
of their total estimated value. In the case of civil works, however, no prior
review is proposed because: (a) all civil works contra ts are small ($10,000 -
200,000 range) and would be procured through local procedures and (b) Bank
emphasis has been to review and agree with the local procedures to be followed
and the standard contract documents to be used; this would be empbasized under
the project.  Bank supervisions missions, would, however, conduct random post
reviews of the above contracts. An overview of the total number of estimated
contracts and their review requirements is presented in Annex 12.
E. Disbursements
Ill      Disbursements of the proposed loan would be made as follows:
ka) for civil works - 65% of total expenditures; (b) for equipnent and
vehicles - 100% of foreign expenditures (CIF); 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory); and 65% of other local expenditures; and (c) for consultants'
services - 100% of tota3 expenditure. Withdrawal applications for reimburse-
ment of civil works contracts costing less than $100,00D equivalent, and goods
and equipment costing less than $50,000 equivalent, would be made wuder State-
ment of Expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation and contracts under SOE
would be retained by the respective executing agencies and made avaiLable to
the Bank during supervision missions. Approximately $300,000 in civil works
expenditures which were incurred in the cities of Surakarta and Semarang after
December 1, 1983 would be financed retroactively under the loan. These expen-
ditures were undertaken to facilitate an early start of the KIP in the two
cities. Following the historical disbursement profiles of similar Bank-



- 26 -
financed urban projects in Indonesia and allowing for adjustments to reflect
project-specific conditions, it is projected that the proposed loan under the
project would be disbursed over the six-year period beginning in July 1984
(see Annex 13). The proposed loan closing date would be December 31, 1990.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.12      Satisfactory project accounting systems would be maintained by Cipta
Karya, PUOD and the project cities. Project accounts for each city would
include: (a) all financial transactions related to KIP, SWIP and DRIP con-
tracts funded from various sources; (b) lang acquisition and compensation
costs; and (c) administration costs. In this connection, consultants have
been appoiated to prepare consolidated accounting systems and train the nomi-
nated staff by July 31, 1984. As noted in para 3.05 (b), the PFOs in the pro-
ject cities would be responsible to maintain proper accounts and prepare con-
solidated financial statements under the overall supervision of the PMUs.
Financial records for consultants' expenditures would be similarly maintained
at the respective financial offices of Cipta Karya and PUOD with a summary of
the expenditures being kept at Cipta Karya's Secretariat. All project
accounts including documentation for SOEs will be subject to annual audits by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and appointed by Cipta Karya.
Thf. terms of reference for project audits were discussed with the Government
:Iring negotiations.  The cost of audits would be financed from the proceeds
of the proposed loan. Assurances were obtained from the Government at negoti-
ations that (i) all executing agencies (Cipta Karya, PUOD, and the project-
cities) would maintain satisfactory project accounts; that (ii) Cipta Karya
would submit to the Bank certified copies of audited project accounts of the
cities and technical assistance programs, in consolidated form, no later than
nine months after the end of each fiscal year commencing from FY84; and that
(iii) PUOD would submit to the Bank in similar manner certified copies of the
audited annual expenditure accounts for the municipal management programs.
G. Monitoring and Supervision
3.13      Supervision of the overall project would be the responsibility of
Cipta Karya witlh PUOD providing the supportive role. An inter-departmental
team, consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Cipta Karya
and PUOD, would periodically review overall project progress and implementa-
tion problems. Routine field visits would be undertaken jointly by Cipta
Karya and PUOD to discuss with the project agencies matters related to fin-
ance, physical progress and associated institutional matters. The format and
content of the progress monitoring reports, together with a list of perfor-
mance indicators, were discussed with Cipta Karya during appraisal. Cipta
Karya would submit to the Bank consolidated quarterly progress reports no
later than two months after the end of eacii calendar year quarter. These
reports would contain consolidated monitoring data for all physical components
as well as for technical assistance. PUOD would be similarly responsible for
preparing quarterly progress reports on the municipal management programs for
submission to the Bank. Upon completion of the project, Cipta Karya in coor-
dination with PUOD and the project cities would prepare a completion report
within six months of the loan closing date. Specific supervision of each com-
ponent has been agreed as follows:



- 27 -
(a)  Physical Components:  Physical progress of KIP, SWIP and DRIP
components would be directly supervised by the PMU in each province
on behalf of Cipta Karya. Monthly progress reports on implementa-
tion activities would be prepared by the PlUs under the supervision
of the Project Cuordinator and reviewed by the PHU.  The -management
consultants (para 3.05c) ol eaell PMU would help establish and main-
tain a management information system for project activities. It is
intended that the bulk of the consolidated quarterly progress
report, compiled for the Bank, would form part of the above informa-
rion system.
(b)  Technical Assistance:  As in the past, the engineering services
contracts for SWIP/DRIP would be supervised by DSE. The Planning
Division of Cipta Karya, in coordination with the Directorate of
Housing and DSE, would supervise technical assistance services for
the PMUs, project preparation and feasibility studies.
(c)  Mrunicipal Management Programs:  The Directorate of Urban Development
at PUDD in coordination with the Directorate of Regional FinancP aiLd
the Directorate General of Taxation and Domestic Monetary Affaris
(Ministry of Finance) would supervise the conduct of the municipal
manageTnent programs. Given the institutionaL emphasis of these pro-
grams, a close supervision from PUOD would be warranted to ensure
that the cities would actively participate in the management
studies.
(d)  Monitoring of Bank loan disbursement.  As in the past, this would be
the responsibility of Cipta Karya's Secretariat working in coordina-
tion with the Directorate General of Budget and External Monetary
Affairs, Ministry of Finance. quarterly status reports on Bank
loan disbursements and on the action prograws fot dealing with any
backlog would be submitted to the Bank by Cipta Karya.
3.14      Bank supervisica of the project shouLd specifically focus on the
institution-building components of the project.  In particular the conduct of
the municipal management programs and their implementation in the cities
should receive adequate attention from the Bank.
H. Land Acquisition
3.15      Implementation of the project would require the acquisition of land
for KIP, SWIP and DRIP componenits.  As with the earlier urban projects, land
acquisiton arrangements for KIP (relating to the provision of communal
toilets, schools and health facilities) and for SWIP (relating to the provi-
sion of transfer depots) would be. undertaken by each project city.  No major
problems are foreseen regarding the acquisition of sites for the above two
programs. In the case of DRIP however, more intensive land acquisition
efforts would be needed due to the nature of the program and the involvement
of central, provincial and local governments with their overlapping functional
responsibilities for the operation of canals and drainage network in the
city. Since a major portion of the right-of-way for the DRIP components (such
as the primary and secondary canals) is already state-owned, the above task
would mainly entail the relocation of families inhabiting the banks of the
waterways. Relocation needs --'or DRIP have been estimated as follows:



- 28 -
844 families in Semarang, 840 in Surabaya and 57 in Ujung Pandang. Details of
the relocation programs are currently under study by thie drainage engineering
consultants hired under the Third Urban Project. The above programs are
expectedl to be finalized by Septeaber 1984. It was agreed at appraisal that
each city would form a land acquisition committee to deal with the specific
issues relating to compensation and relocation arrangements. In order to pro-
vide an adequate lead time for this process5, the scope of DRIP for the first
implementation year would be limited to the secondary and tertiary canals
whlich require no land acquisition. Dank would closely monitor the details of
land acquisition schedule during the project startup period Lo ensure that the
related arrangements would be undertaken in a timely manner.
I.  Operation and Maintenance
3.16      Maintenance of the project assets would be the overall responsibi-
lity of the municipal government concerned.  Annex 14 presents the list of the
operational agencies involved in the upkeep of the infrastructure and the
sanitation facilities. As with the past KIP programs, local community groups
in the kampungs would be involved in the operation and maintenance of the
public taps and sanitation facilities.   Routine monitoring of the effective-
ness of the above faciMities would be an integral function of the KIP units.
Experience indicates that where adequate community participation exists in the
execution of KIP (as in the case of Surakarta, under the Third Urban Project),
the operation and maintenance of the KIP sanitation facilities would not pose
major problems. Improvements to the citywide infrastructure maintenance under
the project would be focused in the following areas: (a) strengthening of
city service departments, particularly in the areas of inventorying citywide
infrastructure, work scheduling, budgeting and administration (to be carried
out under the auspices of the Operation and Maintenance Studies
para. 2.12(c)); (b) provision of maintenance equipment (under the SWIP and
DRIP programs) to facilitate routine maintenance; and (c) on-the-job training
of the Public Works and Cleansing Department staff and managers in areas
(a) and (b) above. It was agreed that the project cities would actively coor-
dinate with the management consultants to facilitate a satisfactory formula-
tion of the requisite operation and maintenance programs and their implementa-
tion. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that as a part of the above-
mentioned operation and maintenance studies, PUOD would (a) by July 31, 1986
or such other date the Bank may agree, furnish to the Bank for comments the
funding requirements for an adequate operation and maintenance program for
infrastructure in the project cities; and (b) promptly thereafter, furnish to
the Bank for comments a five-year budgetary plan, commencing April 1, 1987,
for the carrying out of such a program.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALY5IS
A.  Municipal Finances
General Trends and Structure
4.01      The fiscal base of Indonesian cities remains quite weak, with local
resources being insufficient to finance even the minimum basic services to the
population. The financing of urban services has been characterized by



- 29 -
(a) local governments' heavy reliance on central government subsidies and
grants for more than 65% of their development and routine expenditures;
(b) the lack of any cost-sharing rationale, in terms of the relative mix of
loans and grants in relation to the cities' needs and theih evaluated fiscal
capabilities; and (c) the predominance of centrally financed and implemented
projects with only a passive role played by local governments. The abundance
of central government grant funds in the 1970s due to oil revenues provided
little incentive for local governments to mobilize resources. With the limi-
ted availability of central government revenues In the future, there is a need
for improving local resource mobilization to support an expansion of urban
services. Although some progress has been achieved during Repelita III in
augmenting local revenues, there is considerable scope for raising the cities'
locally-derived income (from the current low level of Rp 2,500-3,000 per
capita per annum) through enhanced assessment and collection efforts and an
emphasis on the cost recovery aspects of services provided.
4.02      The prlncipal sources of municipal revenues are:  (a) grants from
the Central and provincial Governments; (b) assigned revenues, consisting of
taxes and royalties, levied officially by the central government, but assigned
to local government; (c) direct revenues to the local government, consisting
of local taxes, service charges, revenues of the functional service depart-
ments, profits of local enterprises and aiscellaneous revenues; and (d) loans
to the local government. While the proportional contribution of these resour-
ces to the municipal budgets varies considerably among the local governments,
the largest portion of the total budget (about 65%) is typically derived from
central government grants followed by local tax revenues and charges (25%),
assigned revenues (5%) - mostly Ipeda property tax - and borrowings (5%). The
most significant sources of local tax revenue are taxes on cinemas, radios,
alcoholic beverages, hotels, restaurants, slaughterhouses, advertisements and
company registration. Property taxes, which constitute the single most impor-
tant source of revenue (20-50%) for most cities in the world, account for only
5-10% of the total resources for Indonesian cities (ma.nly due to low assess-
ment rates set by the central government and inefficient collection systeas).
4.03      Municipal revenues, excluding development taxes and property taxes,
are normally allocated to the routine budgets to cover part of routine expen-
ditures, but the central government covers all personnel costs (i.e., 60% or
more of routine expenditures) as well as certain expenditures for health and
education. At the local level, any surplus generated from the routine account
is allocated to the development budget. The proportion of this surplus from
the routine account varies significantly among cities and from year to year,
depending upon the financial management of local governments.
Project Cities' Financial Profiles
4.04      The main features of municipal finance in the four project cities
are illustrated in the following table, which presents a summary of the
resources and expenditures for each of the project cities for the most recent
fiscal year 1982/83.



- 30 -
Table IV-1: FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND EXPENDITURES OF PROJECT CITIES
(FY82/83 Data)
Ujung
Surabaya          Semarang          Surakarta          Pandang
(in million Rupiahs)
Resources
Gov't subsidies   18,251   (55)        8,071   (70)      3,477   (65)   11,044    (71)
Local revenues      7,299   (22)       3,275   (28)      1,053   (20)    3,751    (25)
Loans               7,500   (23)         209    (2)        800   (15)        600     (4)
Total
Resources       33,050  (100)    11,555  (100)        5,330  (100)   15,455   (100)
Expenditures
Routine            15,280   (46)       7,112   (62)      2,833   (53)    9,085    (59)
Development        17,500   (53)       4,122   (36)      2,347   (44)    6,370    (41)
Debt service          270    (1)         321    (.')       150    (3)          -     (-)
Total Exp.      33,050  (100)    11,555  (100)        5,330  (100)   15,455   (100)
(in Rupiahs)
Per Capita
Local revenues      2,290              3,275             2,106            2,206
Total revenues    13,220              11,555            10,660            9,092
4.05      Historical financial profiles of the project cities for the fiscal
period 1979/80-1982/83 are presented in Tables i through 4 of Annex 15.
Expenditures and revenues of each city vary considerably depending on the size
of population, the nature and scope of economic activities and the level of
central/provincial government grants and loans. Between 1979/80-82/83, the
total resources available to the cities more than doubled (except for
Surakarta). While much of this increase resulted from the substantial growth
in central government subsidies, locally generated revenues also rose at an
average annual rate of 31% for Semarang, 24% for Surabaya, 23% for Surakarta
and 21% for Ujung Pandang partly as a result of efforts to improve resource
mobilization initiated for these cities under previous Bank loans. In real
terms, the above increases would correspond to 12% for Semarang, 5% for
Surabaya, 4% for Surakarta and 2% for Ujung Pandang. This contrasts with the
stagnation or decline in locally generated resources experienced in most other
Indonesian cities during the same period (see Urban Services Sector Report).
Development expenditures in the project cities, except for Surakarta,
increased rapidly at annual rates of 52% for Surabaya, 32% for Semarang and
19% for Ujung Pandang. Borrowing constituted a significant funding source
only for Surabaya, where development expenditures durirg 1979/80 - 1982/83
increased at a much higher rate than increases in the self-generated revenues
and Central Government subsidies for the same period. The other project



- 31 -
cities have been relying to a much greater degree on central government budge-
tary support, for both routine and development expenditures.
B. Project Impact and Resource Mobilization
4.06      The financial ability of the local governments to absorb their share
of the proposed project in their anticipated development budgets was a major
factor (besides demand and implementation capacity) in determining the project
size. Annex 15 presents medium-term (FY 1983/84 - 1987/88) prospective bud-
gets for the project cities. The projections assume that: (a) central govern-
ment subsidies for the project cities over the medium term would remain con-
stant at current levels in real terms; (b) each city would maintain its pre-
sent pattern of development projects, with development expenditures remaining
constant at current levels in real terms; and (c) the only real increase in
development expenditures for the projected period would be due to the proposed
project. An analysis of the projected fiscal data indicates that in order for
the cities to contribute a significant portion of the project cost (28% for
Surabaya, 21% for Semarang, 31% for Surakarata and 19% for Ujung Padang), and
to be able to generate sufficient reserve funds to meet their debt obliga-
tions, it would be necessary to increase their annual development revenues and
their Ipeda property tax by at least 5% in real terms during the medium-
term. Given the improving trends in revenue collection in these cities
(para. 4.05) and the potential for improvement in assessments and tax collec-
tion efficiency, an increase of not less than 5% in real terms is considered
realistic and achievable (see para. 4.08). To this e.id, the municipal manage-
ment programs envisaged under the project would assist the cities by streng-
thening the financial management and administration of local revenue agen-
cies. The above programs would be further complemented by the assistance pro-
vided under the project in the area of land taxation. All these studies are
action-oriented and should therefore have a positive impact on the resource
mobilization capabilities of local government over the medium- to long-term.
C. Cost Recovery and Replicability
4.07      At present, the development costs incurred by municipalities are
primarily financed from central transfers, mostly grants, and not recovered
directly fr=m beneficiaries, with the exception of some individual municipal
services, such as water supply (e.g. the Surabaya water component of the Bank-
financed Second Water Supply Project, Loan 1709-IND) and solid waste, where
charges to beneficiaries are applied. Following the practice established
under past projects, the KIP and DRIP components would be financed from gene-
ral municipal revenues and central government grants. Direct cost recovery
for these components is neither appropriate nor feasible due to: (a) the rou-
tine provision of these urban services for higher income neighborhoods without
direct charges; (b) the "public good" characteristics of the proposed drainage
investments and the associated difficulty in identifying individual beneficia-
ries; (c) tne unclear land tenure situation prevailing in the kampunge, which
precludes direct plot charges in the abaence of a major cadastral and regis-
tration effort; and (d) the high cost of collection, which would ir, many cases
exceed the revenues generated.
4.08      An important aspect of the argument in favor of direct levies on
beneficiaries rests on the desire to ensure that the program can be sustained
over the long term so that the services can be provided to all kampung



- 32 -
areas. The Government would continue to address this issue by: (a) an expli-
cit focus on the standards employed with an aim to keeping these at a minimum
level consistent with achieving the health objectives of the project; and
(b) ensuring that municipal revenues increase at a rate sufficient to pay for
an expanding program. The medium-term requirements for the project city
finances are discussed in para. 4.06. Assurances were received during nego-
tiations that the Government would cause each project city to take all mea-
sures necessary to increase the income accruing to each city from both local
revenues and IPEDA by an average of not less than 5% p.a. each, in real terms,
beginning GOI fiscal year starting April 1, 1984 and ending in the fiscal year
starting April 1, 1988. Technical assistance provided under the project
(para. 2.12) is dtsigned to improve assessment and collection practices in
project cities to ensure that: (a) properties are registered and revalued
regularly; (b) rates are set and applied appropriately; and (c) tax collection
is intensified. These efforts, which cLuld subsequently be implemented else-
where, would enable the cities to capture some of the increment in property
values resulting from intrastructural improvements throughout the city, inclu-
ding those provided under the present project.
4.09      Regarding the solid waste component (SWIP), municipal authorities
currently levy direct charges for market areas and high income residential
properties that are directly served by the city fleet (with charges ranging
from Rp 500 to Rp 2,500 per household per mcnat). For most kampung areas,
however, municipal authorities only transport solid wastes from collection
points to the disposal site and no fees are charged. Solid waste collection
in these areas is organized by residents through local community organizations
(see Annex 13). Residents make monthly contributions (typically ranging from
Rp 100 to 500 per household per month) to these organizations, covering not
only solid oaste collection but other social services as well.
4.10      Local governments do not keep separate accounts for solid waste
operations and accounting practices are generally quite deficient. Estimates
derived from available accounts indicate that revenues from direct charges
cover only about half of total annual costs to the municipality, with the
remainder financed from general revenues. For the areas covered by SWIP, it
ic estimated that average charges would have to increase to abwut Rp 6,000 per
household per year in order to cover the investment costs of the SWIP compo-
nent. Since this level of charges may not be feasible for low income house-
holds, various possibilities for cross-subsidization need to be explored. In
addition, some public financing may be justified due to the externalities
associated with solid waste collection (i.e., the whole community may benefit
or suffer if collection does or does not take place). Nevertheless, there is
considerable scope for improving the current system of charges, streamlining
and intensifying collection efforts and introducing better ac(ounting prac-
tices. Consultant assistance (para. 2.12 (b)) provided under the municipal
management component of the project would focus attention in these areas, and
specifically in setting up separate accounts for solid waste operations and in
determ.ining the most appropriate system of charges. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would: (a) By September 30, 1985, or such
other date as the Bank may agree, furnish the results of the solid waste cost
recovery study to the Bank for comments; and that (b) based on the recommenda-
tions of the study and the comments on the Bank thereon, promptly introduce a
program of cost recovery in consultation with the Bank.



- 33 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION XND RISKS
A.  Justification
5.01      The Justification and principal benefits of the proposed project are
outlined briefly below (see Annex 16 for details):
(a) The KIP infrastructure investments proposed under the project would
improve services in kampung areas at an average cost of about
$28 per capita (January 1984 prices), benefitting about 760,000
residents in the four project cities. Using as a measure of bene-
fits the increased rental values resulting from infrastructure
improvements, economic rates of return for this component ranged
from 15% to 41% in the projact cities (see Table V-I). The weighted
average rate of return for the KIP component as a whole was 29%.
Sensitivity analysis showed that even if costs were increased or
benefits reduced by 20%, the rates of return would remain within
acceptable limits, particularly since rental values may not fully
capture the public health and other non-quantified benefits of the
project.
(b) The DRIP component would minimize the risks of periodic flooding,
which causes property damage as well as illness and loss of life, in
three cities (total area of 5,230 ha). Since reliable estimates of
damage control due to drainage improvements were difficult to
obtain, increased rental values in the affected areas were used as a
proxy measure of the environmental and health benefits of this com-
ponent. The economic rates of returi, ranged from 15% to 23% (see
Table V-I). The weighted average rate of return for the DRIP compo-
nent as a whole was 18%. Sensitivity analysis indicated that even
if costs were increased or benefits reduced by 20%, the rate of
return would remain within acceptable limits, particularly since, as
in the KIP case rental values may not fully capture the non-quanti-
fied health and other benefits of the project.
(c) The SWIP component would extend organized refuse collection to about
1.1 million people (inclusive of KIP population) in the four project
cities at a modest cost of $5 per capita. In addition to contribu-
ting directly to the control of filth-borne diseases, the effective
collection and disposal of solid waste would reduce the risks and
costs associated with clogging of drainage channels. In the absence
of suitable measures for quantifying the benefits of solid waste
collection, the justification of this component was based on the
judgement that its design represents a low-cost solution and its
public health benefits are likely to be very significant. Since
solid waste collection is necessary to keep the drains clear, the
justification of SWIP was also tested with the conservative assump-
tion that it has no separate benefits (i.e., DfRIP benefits are a
joint product of DRIP and SWIP). Even with this assumption (which
for most cities is equivalent to adding 20% to the costs of DRIP),
the rates of return for DRIP remain above 12% (as shown under sensi-
tivity analysis in Table V-I). Moreover, this does rot take into
account the probable reduction of maintenance costs for drainage due



- 34 -
to effective solid waste collection, or the public health benefits
derived from these programs.
(d) The municipal management and technical assistance components of the
project would enhatrce the planning, implementation and management
capacity of municipal authorities and augmnent local revenue genera-
tion. By strengthening the local role in the provision and finan-
cing of urban services, this project component would contribut-e to
the increased devolution of responsibility from the central to the
local levels. In addition, consultant assistance to central agen-
cies which are closely linked to urban services (Cipta Karya and
PUOD) would strengthen their capibiLities.
Table V-I:  ERR ANALYSIS
Type                      Benefits    Costs      Benefits reduced
of benefit         ERR       reduced   increased   (- 20%) and costs
Component         quantified           %       (- 20%)   (+ 20%)       increased (+ 20%)
K(IP
Surabaya            Increased           35           27          29                22
rental value
Semarang                                17           12          15                10
Surakarta               "               15           11          13                 8
Ujung Pandang            "              41           32          33                26
Weighted average        "               29            -           -                 -
DRIP
Surabaya                "               15           11          12                 8
Semarang                "               17           13          14                 9
Ujung Pandang            "              23           18          19                15
Weighted average                        18            -           -
KIP and DRIP
components
combined                                24
5.02      Project impact on employment and poverty is expected to be signifi-
cant. The physical components of the project would provide an estimated
19,000 man-years of direct employment (largely for semi-skilled and unskilled
labor) during construction, and an additional 400 man-years of employment per
year related to operation and maintenance. Because most project components
focus primarily on low-income urban neighburhoods, the proportion of project
benefits accruing to the urban poor would be very high. Of the estimated
760,000 beneficiaries under KIP, at least 70% are likely to have incomes below
Lhe urban relative poverty threshold (estimated at $250 per capita for
1982). The DRIP and SWIP components would benefit not only the KIP areas but
also an additional 400,000 people of which , substantial proportion are likely



- 35 -
t, have incomes below the poverty level. Overall, it is estimated that at
least 50% of total project expenditures would benefit the urban poor.
B. Risks
5.03      The principal risks of the project lie in:  (i) the untested super-
vision capacity of PUOD in the impwementation of the municipal management stu-
dies with wide-ranging goals; and (ii) the possible implementation delays for
the drainage components (DRIP) in the cities of Semarang and Ujung Pandang.
To minimize the first risk, the implementation of the municipal management
studies would be carried out under the close supervision of a Technical Steer-
ing Committee, (para. 3.06). This committee would closely monitor the conduct
of the study by consultants, review their findings and oversee the implementa-
tion of the recommended programs in the cities. The risks concerning the
implementation of DRIP in Semarang and Ujung Pandang stem from the lack of
experience of the drainage divisions in the two cities in managing large scale
capital works programs. It was agreed at appraisal that the implementation
capacity of the drainage project units in the two cities would be augmented by
personnel seconded from the provincial Cipta Karya and kanwil units would be
assigned, with supplemental assistance provided by the design and supervision
consultants to be engaged under the project. The above measures should be
adequate in minimizing the risks cited in connection with the drainage
schemes.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The following specific agreements were reached or understandings
confirmed between the Bank and the Government at negotiations:
(a)  the Government would ensure that Cipta Karya and the provincial and
local governments of the project cities would make available their
funds in a timely manner for project implementation (para. 2.17);
(b)  the Government would ensure that the Project Implementing Units, the
Project Management Units and the Project Finance Offices would be
established by July 31, 1984 and staffed as agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.05);
(c)  The Government would cause the PMUs (i) to prepare and furnish to
the Bank, through Cipta Karya, not later than four months prior to
the end of each fiscal year, the proposed annual program and
financing plan for the KIP, SWIP and DRIP works to be undertaken for
the ensuring fiscal year; the first such program and financing plan
would be submitted not later than November 30, 1984 (para. 3.07)
(d)  the Government would ensure that (i) all executing agencies would
maintain satisfactory project accounts in accordance with acceptable
accounting practices; (ii) Cipta Karya would submit to the Bank
certified copies of audited statements of the project accounts of
the project cities and for technical assistance programs in consoli-
dated form no later that nine months after the end of each fiscal
year commencing from FY84; and (iii) PUOD would submit to the Bank



- 36 -
in a similar manner certified copies of annual audits of project
accounts for the municipal management programs (para. 3.12);
(e) the Government would (i) by July 31, 1986 or such other date the
Bank may agree, furnish to the Bank for comments the funding
requirements for an adequate operation and maintenance program for
infrastructure in the project cities; and (ii) promptly thereafter,
furnish to the Bank for comments a five-year budgetary plan, commen-
cing April 1, 1987, for the carrying out of the program
(para. 3.16);
(f)  the Government would cause each project city to take all measures
necessary to increase the income accruing to each such project city
from both local revenues and IPEDA by an average of not less than 5%
p.a. each, in real terms, beginning in the fiscal year
starting April 1, 1984, and ending in the fiscal year starting April
1, 1988 (para. 4.08); and
(g) the Government would (i) by September 30, 1985, or such other date
as the Bank may agree, furnish the result of the solid waste cost
recovery study to the Bank for comments; and (ii) based on the
recommendations of the study and the comments of the Bank thereon,
promptly introduce a program of cost recovery in consultation with
the Bank (para. 4.10).
6.02      Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements between the Bo-rower and
the project cLties and the provincial government of South Sulawesi would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
6.03      With assurances received on the points above, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$39.25 million to the Republic of Indonesia,
repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the standard
variable interest rate.



37-                             ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Sector Profiles of Project Cities
Surabaya
!.        Surabaya, the capital of East Java Province, is the second largest
city in Indonesia with a population of approximately 2.2 million (1980).
Surabaya has develooed its commercial ard industrial activities as a major
port serving Java, iladura and South Kalimantan over the last decade. While
East Java accounted for about 32% of the employment in manufacturing in
Indonesia in 1980, a significant portion of that employment was located in
Surabaya.  Roughly 10% of the city's work force is employed in ind_stry, with
an additional 30% engaged in commerce. Surabaya's expanding industrial and
commercial base is expected to continue to grow due to stimulation from
domestic and foreign investments and the availability of port facilities and
an adequate labor supply.
2.        The economic growth th1atx    taken place in Surabaya in recent years
has been accompanied by ras<        .ation growth, at 3% per annum between 1971-
80, which has taxed the ex4=LL,g    -Acal and social infrastructure of the
city. It is estimated that about 53% of the dwelling units are of tempoTary
construction and another 23% are 'semi-permanent" structures. Only 17% have
access t piped water, while 27% buy water from vendors and the remainder rely
on private wells, open water courses or rainwater collection. The solid
wastes collection systeu, accommodates only an estimated 60% of daily wastes
production. Roughly 60% of Surabaya's inhabitants lack sanitary facilitiea
for human-waste disposal and must make use of canals, ditches and rivers for
disposal of personal ;astes.  Surabaya has benefitted from the earlier Bank-
financed second urban project and the on-going third urban development and
second water supply projects. A KIP coverage of 32% of trcal kampungs and an
expanded water supply distribution network for a population of abotut 350,000
would be achieved under these projects.
Semarang
3.        Semarang, the fourth largest city of Indonesia with a population of
about 1 million (1980) is located on the north coast of Java midway between
Jakarta ar.d Surabaya. The capital of Central Java, it was designated in the
regional development program for Repelita III as the growth center for the
"subdei;elopment region" that includes Central Java and Jogjakarta. The growth
of Semairang's population during the 1971-80 period averaged over 5% per
year. All of its major industries, trade centers and government offices are
located on the coastal plain surrounding the port area. While shipping and
relatEid activities provide employment for a significant portion of the
population, almost two thirds of the work force is concentrated in three
sectors: manufacturing (17%), commer2e (27%) and government (20%).



- 38 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Semarang's vast backlog of basic urban services (KIP) was partly
addressed (about 15% of the total kampungs) under the auspicies of the Bank-
financed third arban project.  The major problem areas in the city are water
supply, drainage, sewerage and solid waste collection. Although its water
supply systems have been expanded with external assistance (including an ADB-
financed project) in recent years, water supply through piped house connec-
tions in the city is still limited, accounting for only about 25% of the total
households. Flooding is a major problem in most of the low coastal area, both
because of the topography and because of clogging of the drainage system with
silt and refuse. The solid wastes collection services are limited to accomo-
dating only about 40% of the daily load and the remainder largely dumped along
the streets or in drainage canals. These canals and other open waterways a-e
also the depository for much of the human waste generated in the city, as
Semarang (like most other cities in Indonesia) has no formal sewerage system,
and self-contained septic tanks are largely restricted to commercial and
industrial establishments and middle to high-income residential areas.
Surakarta
5.        Surakarta, the only inland city of the four project cities, is
located in Central Java, roughly midway between the north and south coasts.
Surakarta is the smallest project city with a population of about 0.5 million
in 1980 and a growth rate 3f only 1.4% in the 1971-80 period. Despite its
relatively slow growth, it is of great cultural and historical attration to
Indonesians since the city was the royal capital of the Muslim Mataram
empire. About two thirds of the work force is concentrated in three sectors;
commerce (26%), manufacturing (24%) and government (17%).
6.        Under the Bank-financed third urban project, about 18% coverage of
the total kampung areas was achived through KIP. An emergency program for
improvement of the water supply system, assisted by USAID, was undertaken in
the late 1970's and has ameliorated to some extent a severe service deficiency
in the city's water supply. At the same time, the city government has
completed a new pump station on one of the major drainage cenals with plans to
rehabilitate that canal by clearing it of silt and accumulated solid waste.
While these projects may t lieve the city's macro-drainage problem, low-lying
kampung areas will remain flood-prone until an adequate micro-level system of
primary and secondary drains is constructed and linked to the city's canal
network. The proposed drainage study under the Fifth Urban project will
identify the requisite investments in the drainage sector.
Ujung Pandang
7.        Ujung Pandang, located on the southwest coast of Sulawesi, has been
an important port fo: commerce and sea trade for Inconesia. It is the capital
of the South Sulawesi Province as well as the urban c.enter identified in the
gov-ernment's regional development plan for Eastern Indonesia. The population
of Ujung Pandang is about 0.7 million (1980), growing au over 5% per year in
the 1971-80 period (through this partially reflects boundary expa.rsion).



- 39 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        The city has been facing a serious problem in providing the minimum
basic urban services in dense kampung areas. Large scale measures to deal
with the above problems were initiated in 1979 under the Bank-financed third
urban project which sought the upgrading of services in about 35% of the total
kampung areas in the city. At present, about 30% of the population receive
water through piped house connections, while the remaining 70% rely on public
taps, wells and rainwater collections. Heavy rainfall in the monsc.,n months
causes frequent flooding, with flood waters remaining for several da)s in the
worst areas.  Solid waste collection facilities in the city accommodate only
about 55% of the total wastes generated; the remainder, after scavenging or
salvaging for re-use, tends to be deposited in roadways, ditches, drains and
vacant lots.  Under the proposed project, significant investments will be nade
in the solid waste and drainage sectors in addition to expanding the KIP
services in about 40% of the total urban kampungs of the city.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP): Services Standards
1.        A summary of the proposed service standards for the KIP infrastruc-
ture derived from the earlier KIP schemes is provided below. KIP designs
Incorporate a high degree of flexibility in the adoption of standards to meet
local requirements.
Indicative range of
Element                    Service standard                         improvements
Access
Vehicular roads          All dwellings to be within 100 m of   40-60 m/ha
(2.5-5 m width on        roadway capable of carrying emergen-
3-10 m right-of-way)     cy vehicles.
Footpaths (0.8-2 m width  Paved footpaths to within 20 m of         50-110 m/ha
on 1-4 m right-of-way)      every dwelling not located on a
vehicular road.
Sanitation
Drainage                 Adequate collector drains on roads    175-350 m/ha
In-kampung drainage   and footpaths, sized for 1-3 year
storm design.
Connector drains       Adequate linkage of kampung drainage  15-40 m/ha
system to primary drainage facili-
ties, sized for at least 5-year
storm design.
Sanitation units         Multifamily privies (pour-flush,         Varies widely according
(toilets, baths and      water-sealed):  one/household or         to needs and available
washing facilities or   grouped up to 5 households; 2-5 seat  land
MCKs)                    community toilets and washing facil-
ities (MCK) within 80-100 m walking
distance from dwelling.
Solid waste collection  Adequate small carts (about 1 cu m    Box:   1 unit/1-3 ha
(garbage carts and       capacity) and storage boxes              Cart:  I unit/1-2 ha
boxes)                   (4-6 cu m capacity) for all area
households to receive collection
service of household wastes at least
twice weekly.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Indicative range of
Element                     Service standard                        iiprovements
Water Supply
Water taps (and           Safe water supply of 60 i/capita/day   1 tap per RT (15-30
associated piping)        from city water supply or deep           families) or (3-10 per
wells; location of public taps/          Icampung);
standpipes within 100-150 m of all
dwelling units currently without
water supply.
Social Facilities
Health clinics            Provision of preventive medical care  Varies widely according
(Puskesmaas)              in all kampungs not presently served  to needs
by available facilities.
Primary schools (SD)      Overcome existing capacity deficien-  Varies widely according
cies, to provide primary school          to needs
space for 75% of school-age children
on 2-shift-per-day basis.
2.        Unit Costs.  Based on past experience, Cipta Karya has established a
maximum unit cost standard of Rp 8.1 million (Dec 1982 prices) per hectare for
KIP capital works (excluding land). The calculated unit costs of KIP under
the proposed project are indicated below. Unit cost variations among cities
are mainly influenced by the topographical features of the kaipungs as well as
the existing level of infrastructure and the unit prices of the various civil
works involved.
Unit costs /a (excluding contingencies and land)
per hectare                     per capita
Rp '000 or $                    Rp '000 or $
Surabaya                       8,298                             25
Semarang                       8,381                             25
Surakarta                      7,050                             36
Ujung Pandang                  7,636                             2Z
/a   January 1984 prices.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
3.         Procurement Provisions.  Following is an overview of the procurement
provisions under the project:
Table 2: PROCUREnENT PROVISIONS
Surabaya semarang                Surakarta    IJuNg Pariang
Infrastructure        Unit    Quantity  %.    Quantity  %       Quantity  %      Quantity   %
elements                            exper-           experr-          expe-
ditures         ditures          ditures          dittJres
Access
Roads /a              m       37,120    19    34,800    14      16,400   17      27,970   16
Footpaths            m       105,0BO    18    54,000    18      19,225   11      41,222    9
Water Supply         No. of
taps    600-700    15   500-600    13    100-200    4    200-250   12
Ervinronnental Sanitation
In-kmnampn )
drainage )          m      100,000    12   201,000    35      71,000   48    200,000   41
network )
H1lnan waste
(smail MCKS,
privies) lb                 93     3       257      5         123    9        100    7
(s,a1
units)
Solid waste /c     carts/
boxes         -      -    224/33      2    110/125    3      93/470     1
Social Facilities
Health clinics       No.          10     3         8      3          8    8          14    5
Schools             No.          10      7         5      7          -    -           7    9
/a   Includes vehicular and becak (tricycle rickshaw) roads.
7TH    Utilization of individual and multifamily units will be emphasized; may
involve a higher proportion of expenditures than indicated wherever
appropriate.
/c   Supplemental to the citywide solid waste improvement program (SWIP).



INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Solid Waste Management Component (SWIP): Procurement Provisions
City          Household wastse          No.       Market waste                No.      Disposal site   No.   Other needs              No.
Surabaya           Handcarts                  166      Trucks                        14      Bulldozers         3   Supervision vehicles   3
Transfer depots            16       Truck container              95                              Workshop equipment
Trucks                     22       Transfer station   (as needed)
Truck containers           95
Ujung Pandang LA  Handcarts                   300      Mobile containers            460                              Eductor trucks           2
Trucks                     19       Bins                        300                              Workshop equipment
Mobile containers       3,600       Transfer stations  (as needed)
Semarang La        Handcarts                 375       Trucks                         4                              Garage parking
Trucks                     13       Mobile containers         1,900
Mobile concainer        3,300       Bins                      1,050
Transfer station (as needed)        Transfer station  (as needed)
Surakarta  a       Handcarts                 200       Trucks                         3      Bulldozer          I   Workshop equipment
Bins                      143       Transfer stations  (as needed)    Front end loader  I
Trucks                     10                                            Dump truck          I
Transfer station (at needed)                                             Roller              I
Note:
1.  Collection:  Handcarts volume - 0.9 to 1.2 cu m;  Bins capacity = 40-60 lit;
Mobile containers volume = 240 lit - I cu m.
2.  Transfer:  Depots located on 15-120 sq m landi  Transfer stations (15-120 sq m) depending on locea  needs, located on
street sides.
3.  Transport:  Roll-Arm type and Compaction Trucks;  variable sizes;  containers capacity = 6-10 cu m.
Ia   The recommended systems are presently best engineering estimates.  Field verification of performance, reliability and cost
of the recommended equipment under local conditions will be done at the pilot level and determination of equipment and
program modifiations, if necessary, will be established by on-site experimentation prior to full scale extension.
4z



ANNEX 4
-44 -
INDONESIA
FIFTHi URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement Program (DRIP): Procurement Provisions
Operation/maintenance
City/Drain              Civil Works                       Equipment
Surabaya
Primary        8.5 Km   Dredging, lining for Pegirian,  Dredger                2
Tambakwedi, Greges canals         Clamshell           2
Barges              6
Secondary     30.0 Km  Dredging, cleaning                 Dump trucks          6
Tertiary       6.3 Km   Dredging, rehabilitation          Elec. Gen.           1
Semarang
Primary       4.5 Km   Dredging, Widening, rehabi-        Backhoe              1
litation, bridge/road/inlet       Dredger              1
construction on Kali Semarang   Dump trucks           6
Jet Rodder          2
Secondary      12.8 Km  Dredging and rehabilitation
Tertiary      54.9 Km  CGleaning, rehabilitation
Ujung Pandang
Secondary     26.0 Km  New drain, widening of exist-   Backhoe                 2
ing drain, cleaning and reha-   Dumpt Truck           3
bilitation                        Air Comp.           1
tractor             3
Tertiary       16.6 Km  New drain, wideninig of exist-   Portable pumps        7
ing drain, cleaning and reha-   Diesel Generator   2
bilitation                        Trailers            5
Flow Control
Gates            13
Trash racks        13
Workshop
Fquipment         1 lot



ANNEX 5
- 45 -                            Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Municipal Management Programs: Outline Terms of Reference
1. Financial Planning and
Management:                        (see Appendix I for study elements)
Base Cost:                        $0.9 million
Executing Agency:                  Study to be executed by the Dir. General
of Domestic Monetary Affairs, Ministry of
Finance in collaboration with PUOD and
local governments of the project cities;
PUOD to implement the results in the
project cities.
Objectives:                       To provide assistance in (a) the develop-
ment and implementation of (i) medium-
term rolling programs in financial and
physical terms; (ii) improved annual
programming; (iii) improved mechanisms
and procedures for coordination of bud-
gets from all funding sources; (iv) im-
proved accounting and financial control
systems (audits, etc); and introduction
of management information systems; (b)
recommendation of national guidelines for
improving the financial management of
municipal governments based on the imple-
mentation experience in Urban V project
cities; and (c) formal and on-the-job
training of the development planning
Board (Bappeda) and finance staff
(Keuangan) and Inspectorate staff at the
city level in the areas noted in (a)
above.
Duration of Studies:               About 39 months [Dec. 1984-June 19881.
Staffing:                          Estimated consultants' assistance = 200
man months (including about 40 manmonths
foreign).



ANNEX 5
- 46 -                            Page 2
2. Operation and Maintenance
(O/M) management
Base Cost:                    $0.8 vUllion
Executing Agency:             PUOD in collaboration with Cipta Karya
and the local governments of the project
cities.
Objectives:                   To provide assistance in (a) the review
of organi;ation staffiag and budgetary
allocations in relation to the volume of
the citywide O/M tasks; (b) establishment
of appropriate management systems for
planning, programming, execiition and
control of O/M activities, with emphasis
on medium-term and annual programming,
inventorinig of citywide C/M operations,
cost accounting, and resource planning;
(c) production of O/M manuals for infra-
structure and equipment; (d) the imple-
mentation of systems and procedures for
preventive maintenance; (e) training of
concerned city staff (Public Works
Department, Cleansing Department and the
workshop urits) in the areas (a) through
(d) above; (f) establishment of national
guidelines o.n the status and organiza-
tional structure of local O/M units and
the role of government at national/pro-
vincial level in providing technical and
financial assistance to the local govern-
ments; and (g) cost recovery in solid
waste collection.
Duration of Studies:         About 35 months (Dec. 1984-Dec. 1987).
Staffing:                    Estimzeted consultant's assistance - 167
man-months (including about 30 man-months
foreign).
3. Land Taxes Assessment
Administration
Base Cost:                    $0 4 million
Executing Agency:             PUOD, in collaboration with the Director
General of Taxation (Ministry of Finance)
and the local governments of the project
cities.



- 47 -                           ANI-EX 5
Page 3
Objectives:                  To provide assistance in:  (i) identi-
fying areas with potential for intro-
ducing new land taxes (betterment tax or
Pajak Khusus, for example) or upgrading
existing taxes; (ii) establishment of
improved systems and procedures for the
a3sessment, collection and administration
of land taxes; and (iii) provil!e conti-
nued support for the improved Ipeda
collection measures including cadastral
surveys, documentation and valuation;
(iv) training of land valuers (for Ipeda)
at the provincial/local Ipeda offices,
and other concerned staff in the areas of
betterment tax and other land taxes being
recommended.
Period of Activity:          Dec. 1984-Dec. 1986.
Staffing:                    Estimated consultants assistance - 66
manmonths (including about 16 man-months
foreign).



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
Appnndix I
INDONP.SIA
FIFTH URhAN DEVELOPMiENT PROJiCT
StiLi   l0Miitri Of Finanicial Planniing 4nd Kinagemenit Studies for Project Citicen
Comprcihn'sinve plnlloig & pihysical          P Yinancial planning  prograimming              Project/activity/function
Schiemi   neetrlon       nsotloconiomir plasnifiip & programming                buidgeting * necounting                         implementation
ihyaIitcall and  inciorrooo-  Compreehuinfiv  plan                                                                     Identifying Rnals aiid objectives and
mitc ovorall plaiilnlR      Area pulna                                                                                 preparing plana, etc.
Zooni imp. indi regla r lon                                                             Project physIcal and nocioeconomsic
Svet urnl plani. - phys ical (site                                                         planning
dcvelvpmornt/plnuus)                                                                  Project identification
Suhbregtioannal p1nnnirng - t-cIoeconomic
L.amg-rang..e Fi nanecil FiStnItement of objectives
p1ilni mug ohQL bjLctivos
Ixtxd-t rm phIn/ontlino    loclI 5-ycar Rpu liLni
prograiiuml ng
Mi dium-L. rm 1-y.imr ro ll-  WMdiom-t.r-u Kotamuadya suctoral pro-    InVOeLMent project nppratsal nrd                Project identification, preplanning,
iIog proairum                 grtins (physieal ntid snocieconrnic)        fund raining                                 prefeasibility  studies  feansibil-
I Medium-/loaig-tcrm  exturneal Agency                                                      ity studies and CBA, site identi-
programs (cuordinuted physical and                                                      fication and project programming
scrioeconontr) (site developmnent
ioltiseetoral (link) programs           I
Resourcen development program              Develop and implement plan formats
- Kotamadya                                 and links with physiral/socioeco-
Financial legislative change program          nomic plans and programs
Capital improvement program
- Kotamadyn
- Eixternal igancies,
- Constraints
Corporate Kotamadya 3-year plan
-   _       _ _     (developmtent and rout imie)
Annua I programming           Anniial programs - developmert auj          Annual budget - development and rou-   Project and activity administration/
romut Ine                                   tine                                        implementation
--  - -.-  .Short-term  cash forecasting               (Revtew and develop systems and
(Annual accounts)                             formatcs and links with medium-term
p rog ram)
Develop and Implement system
(Review and develop systems and
formats and links with budgets and
medium-term  programs
Information collection        Decentralized data collection               (Project/activity costing)                  Develop and implement
1umvelopment indicators                                                             i  (Review areas of benefit, develop
Basic irhan Information system_                                                     L     and implement systema and formats)
Monitoring                  1imonLtorina  phsycial performance            Ftonitoring financial perforoamucm           Establish and implement quarterly
Monitoring socioeconomic  efoimance|                                                       budget vat:ance report
Coltrol aid feedback          Physical controls                           Financtal controls                       F  Review, develop, establish and
Soctoeconomic controls                        - Budget variance reports                   -implement
-  feedback                            Develop and implement systems/
- Ansems coat effecttveness of              approaches
j       programs and acttvities               Review and develop financial audit
- Internal independent unit                 scope, capacity and competence
Note:  The sections within the dotted lines represetit areas of emphasis under the proposed studies.



ANNEX 6
- 49 -                            Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTh URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance: Outline Terms of Reference
1.Project Iplementation Related
a. Assistance to PIUs for
Project Execution
Base Cost:                       $0.5 million
Executing Agency:                Directorate General of Cipta Karya
Objectives:                      (i) To provide procurement/construc-
tion supervision services related to
project components' execution (espe-
cially SWIP/Sanitation Components);
and (ii) on-the-job training and
seminars for concerned city staff in
the areas of improved design, engi-
neering and construction supervision.
Duration of Services:            September 1984 - August 1988
Staffing:                        Estimated consultants' assistance -
144 man-months (all local)
b.  Management Assist.ance to
Provincial PMUs:
Base Cost:                       $.13 million
Executing Agency:                Directorate General of Cipta Karya
Objectives:                      (i) To assist the PMU and the kanwil
in managing the project components'
execution from the planning and bud-
geting stages through completion;
(ii) to establish and maintain a man-
agement information system at the
PMUs for financial and physical
aspects of project progress based on
information received from the PIUs;
(iii) to assist PMU in overseeing
that (aa) project cities maintain a
satisfactory project accounting sys-
tem with adequate financial controls
and procedures, and that (bb) the
timely auditing of these acounts are
carried out account satisfactorily;
and (iv) to provide training to PMU
personnel at the kanwil in the areas
of project management and monitoring.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Duration of Service:             September 1984 - August 1988
Staffing:                        Estimated consultants assistance -
216 man-months (including 72 man-
months foreign)
c. Advisory Services to
Cipta Karya
Base Cost:                       $0.3 milLiou
Executing Agency:                Directorate General of Cipta Karya
Objectives:                      To provide technical advisory servi-
ces to Cipta Karya directorates in
the areas of (i) implementation of
project components (especially SWIP/
Sanitation) in the project cities,
and in the conduct of DRIP feasibiL-
ity studies (Surakarta); (ii) policy
planning and programming aspects of
SWIP/Sanitation projects nationwide;
(iii) policy planning and programning
aspects of SWIP programs nationwide;
and (iv) training of concerned Cipta
Karya staff in the planning and man-
agement of SWIP/Sanitation prograns.
Duration of Service:             September 1984 - August 1986.
Staffing:                        Estimated consultants' assistance -
24 man-months (foreign)
2.  Future Urban Programs Development
a. Strengthening of Project Pre-
paration Unit at Cipta Karya
Base Cost:                       $0.4 million
Executing Agency:                Directorate General of Cipta Karya,
in coordination with PUOD and local
governments.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 3
Objectives:                      (a)  To assist the Directorate of
Planning, Cipta Karya, with the pre-
paration of guidelines and manuals
regarding the selection, preparation
and appraisal of future urban servi-
ces projects; and (b) to develop the
in-house capabilities of Cipta Karya
for the preparation of new projects
suitable for financing by local and
foreign agencies.
Duration of Service:            December 1984 - December 1987
Staffing:                       Estimated consultants' assistance -
36 man-months (foreign).
b. Feasibility/Sector Studies
Base Cost:                      $1.1 million
Executing Agency:               Directorate General of Cipta Karya,
in collaboration with PUOD and local
governments.
Objectives:                     To undertake sectoral, institutional,
technical and financial stadies rela-
ted to the provision of urban servi-
ces in selected cities/pravinces
(Surakarta Drainage Study, for exam-
p,le).
Duration of Service:            December 1984 - Decembfer 1989
Staffing:                       Estimated consultants' assistance -
150 man-months local (Surakarta
Drainage Study); 150 man-months local
(sector and future urban project stu-
dies to be identified.



- 52 -                                    ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultarits' Appointment Schedule
Deadline for key stages
No. of   Final   Consultants'   Request for          Field
packages   TOR      short list   proposal (RFP)  appointment
Municipal Management Programs
Financial planning and management          1    04/84      06/84           08/84           12/84
Operation and mai..tenance
planning and administration              1    04/84      06/84           08/84           12/84
Land developr'ient taxes                   1    04/84      06/84           08/84           12/84
Technical Assistance
Assistan:e to PlUs for project
execution                               3-4   04/84      04/84           05/84           08/84
Management assistance to PKUs              3    04/84      04/84           05/84           08/84
Technical advisory services to
Cipta Karya                             1-2   04/84      04/84           05/84           08/84
Strengthening of project prepara-
tion team at Cipta Karya                -    06/84       08/84           09/84           12/84
Preinvestment and feasibility
studies
Surakarta drainage                      1    04/84      06/84           08/84           12/84
Other studies                          As    To be      To be           To be           To be
needed  agreed    agreed           agreed          agreed
later     later           later           later
Project accounts auditing
services (annual)                        5    06/84      04/85/a         05/85/b         07/85/c
/a And every April thereafter.
/b And every May thereafter.
/c And every July thereafter.



- 53                                ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVEOPMZNT PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Costs
Rp million or $'000
A. Surabaya
Kampung Improvement Program
Land                                                                  104
Infrastructure                                                     6,521
Schools and health facilities                                         728
Administratioa                                                       441
Price contingencies                                                2,346
Subtotal                                                     10,140
Solid Waste Improvement Program
Land                                                                 209
Civil works                                                          429
Vehicles and equipment                                             1,955
Administration                                                        156
Physical contingencies                                               462
Price contingencies                                                  591
Subtotal                                                      3,802
Drainage Improvement Program
Land                                                               1,357
Civil works                                                        3,320
Equipment                                                            746
Administration                                                       325
Design and supervision                                               503
Physical contingencies                                               228
Price contingencies                                                1,778
Subtotal                                                     8,267
Total, Surabaya                                              22,209
B. Semarang
Kampung Improvement Program
Land                                                                  55
Infrastructure                                                     4,240
Schools and health facilities                                        493
Administration                                                       287
Price contingencies                                                1,486
Subtotal                                                      6,561
Solid Waste Inprovement Program
Land                                                                  53
Civil works                                                          200
Vehicles and equipmrnt                                             1,018
Administration                                                        76
Physical contingencies                                               103
Price contigencies                                                   283
Subtotal                                                      1,733



- 54 _                              ANNEX 8
Page 2
Costs
Rp million or $'000
B.  Semarang (cont'd)
Drainage Improvement Program
Land                                                                1,382
Civil works                                                         4,322
Equipment                                                             540
Adrninist ration                                                      375
Design and superv .ion                                                672
Physical contingt  ies                                                276
Price contigencie.                                                  2,049
Subtotal                                                      9,616
Total , Semarang                                             17,910
C. Surakarta
Kampung Improvement Program
Land                                                                   26
Infrastructure                                                      2,443
Schools and health facilities                                         215
Administration                                                        161
Price contingencies                                                   824
Subtotal                                                      3,669
Solid Waste Improvement Program
Land                                                                  313
Civil works                                                           197
Vehicles and equipment                                                381
Administration                                                         53
Physical contingencies                                                139
Price contingencies                                                   150
Subtotal                                                      1,232
Total, Surakarta                                              4,901
D. U jung Pandang
Kampung Improvement Program
Land                                                                  131
Infrastructure                                                      3,075
Schools and health facilities                                         507
Administration                                                        223
Price contingencies                                                 1,114
Subtotal                                                      5,050
Solid Waste Improvement Program
Land                                                                   11
Civil works                                                            35
Vehicles and equipment                                                620
Administration                                                         40
PhysLcal contingencies                                                105
Price contingencies                                                   141
Subtotal                                                        952



55                                 ANNEX 8
Page 3
Costs
Rp million or $'000
D. Ujung Pandang (cont'd)
Drainage Improv:tment Program
Land                                                                  680
Civil works                                                         2,736
Equipment                                                             588
Administration                                                        240
Design and supervision                                                413
Physical contingencies                                                178
Price contingencies                                                 1,181
Subtotal                                                      6,016
Total, Ujung Pandang                                          12,018
E.  Municipal Management Programs
Financial planning and management                                     960
Operations and maintenance                                            807
Land development taxes                                                389
Price contingencies                                                   534
Total                                                          2,690
F.  Technical Assistance
Assistance to city PIUs for project execution                         504
Management assistance to provincial PMUs                            1,296
Technical advisory services to Cipta Karya                            26i4
Strengthening of urban project preparation team at
Cipta Karya                                                         396
Urban sector and feasibility studies                                1,050
Auditing of project accounts                                          168
Price contingencies                                                   919
Total                                                         4,597
Total Project Cost /a                                        64,325
Project Stmmary
Base cost (January 1984 prices)                                      49,426
Physical and price contingencies                                     14,899
Total Cost                                                    64,325
/a Includes taxes amounting to $1.1 million.



- 56 -                                   ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(Rp miLlion or $'000 equivalent)
Government contributions
Provincial  Local government    Total
GOI   government   City   Inpres /b  project
Bank     grant    grant      budget   budget       costs
A. Surabaya
Kampung improvement              5,519    1,061        752      1,803    1,005    10,140
Solid waste improvement          2,789         -        -       1,013         -     3,802
Drainage improvement             4,526      915       447       2,379         -     8,267
Subtotal A                   12,834/a  1,976    1,199         5,195    1,005    22,209
B. Semarang
Kampung improvement              3,627       984      656         656       638     6,561
Solid waste improvement          1,330         -        -         403         -     1,733
Drainage improvement             5,297    1,202    1,319        1,798         -     9,616
Subtotal B                   10,254/a  2,186    1975          2,857      638    17,910
C. Surakarta
Kampung improvement              1,464       823      367         636       380      3,669
Solid waste improvement            659         -        -         573         -     1,232
Subtotal C                     2,123/a    823       367       1,209       380     4,901
D. Ujung Pandang
Kamnpung improvement             2,334       900      530         483       803     5,050
Solid waste improvement            732         -        -         221         -       952
Drainage improvement             3,585    1,349       687         395         -     6,016
Subtotal D                       6,651/a  2,249    1,217        1,099       803    12,018
Subtotal (A+B+C+D)            31,862    7,234    4758        10,358    2,827    57,038
E. Municipal Management
Improvement Program
Financial planning and
management                     1,200         -        -           -         -     1,200
Operations and maintenance
administration                 1,008         -        -           -         -     1,008
land development taxes
administration                   4CZ'                 -           -         -       482
Subtotal E                     2,690        -         -           -        -      2,690
F. Technical Assistance
Project implementation           2,580         -        -           -         -     2,580
Future urban programs
development                    1,807         -        -           -         -     1,807
Project accounts auditing          210         -        -           -         -       210
Subtotal F                     4,597        -                     -        -      4,597
Total                         39,149/c  7,234    4,758       10,357    2,827    64,325
/a  Bank loan relent to cities under subsidiary loan agreements.  (Note:  In the case of
Ujung Pandang, a small portion of the indicated Bank loan - about $0.7 million - will
be onlent to the provincial government of South Sulawesi which will, in turn, pass the
amount to the city as a grant.)
/b Development funds authorized by Preildential Instruction.
T7  Total bank loan - $39.15 million + $0.1 million (FEP) - $39.25 million.



- 57 -                                       ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELDPMENT PROJECT
Key Project Staffing Requtrements for KIP, SWIP and DRIP Execution
Surabaya    Semarang    Surakarts   Ujung Panding
(E. Java)   (C. Java)   (C. Java)   (S. Sulawesi)
Project Implementation Units /a
Kampung Improvement Program /b
Hlead                                         1            1             1              1
Planning/design                              18           17            9              14
Procurement/constr. supervision              16           15           10              13
Social /ecoonomic                             4            4            3               4
Administration/records                       11            8            7               8
Total                                      50           45           30              40
Solid Waste Improvement Program /b
Head                                          1            1            1               1
Planning/destgn                               3            3            -               2
Procurementlconstr. supervision               3            2            2               2
Adrinistration/records                        4            3            2               2
Total                                      II            9            7               7
Drainage Improvement Program lb
Head                                          1            1            -               I
Design supervision and land acqui-
sition /c                                   3            3            -               2
Procurenient/constr. supervision              2            3            -               2
Adrtinistration/records                       3            3            -               3
Total                                       9           10            -               8
Project Finance Office /a
Head                                            1            1             1              1
Administration/records                          4            3            3               3
Project finance unit                            5            4            4               4
Total                                     10             8            8               8
Project Coordinator                               1            1             1              1
Project Management Units /c
Head (project director)                         1            1            -/d             1
Technical and financial management              3            3            -/d             3
Admi nistration                                 4            3            -7 d            2
Total                                       8            7            -               6
/a  Staff mostly drawn from the existing local government agencies (except in the case of
DRIP units requiring seconded staff from the provincial Cipta Karya and kanwil offi-
ces).
/b  KIP units and their indicated staff currently existing in all four cities; and SWIP
and DRIP untts and their indicated staff existing in Surabaya. (All these units were
formed under the auspices of the earlier 3ank-financed Third Urban Project.)
Xc  Staff seconded from Cipta Karya and provincial public works office as appropriate.
/d  Supervised by the PHU in the provincial capital of Semarang.
Note: ALl staffing requirements are incrementals except as noted in footnote /b above.



INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Project Implementation Monitoring Indicators
1. Physical Components
Total appraisal target                    Percentage of target expenditures,
Procurement period                  Expenditures /c               by GOI fiscal year
(Jan '84 prices)    1984/  1985/  1986/  1987/  i988/
City              Start   Complete/a    Physical /b   (Rp million)            85     86      87     88      89
A.  Kampung Improvement Program
Un
Surabaya          Jul 84    Mar 89            928 ha          7,794           25     24      26     25       -
Semarang          Jul 84    Mar 89            600 ha          5,075           26     26      24     24
Surakarta         Jul 84    Mar 89            400 ha          2,845           27     26      22     25
Ujung Pandang    Jul 84    Mar 89             500 ha          3,936           31      20     29      20      -
B.  Solid Waste Improvement Program
Surabaya          Sep 84    Jun 88    325,000 pop.            2,749           37     26      32      5
Semarang          Sep 84    Jun 88    275,000 pop.            1,347           14     45      36       5      -
Surakarta         Sep 84    Jun 88    162,000 pop.              943           37     41      17       5      -
Ujung Pandang    Sep 84    Jun 88    300,000 pop.               706            8      52     35       5      -
C. Drainage Improvement Program
Surabaya          Sep 84    Mar 89   45 km network            6,251           29     20      24     27       -
Semarang          Sep 84    Jun 89   43 km network            7,291           15      29     32      19      5
Ujung Pandang    Sep 84    Jun 89   58 km network             4,657           15      29     38      13      5
-  -
la  Contractors' performanc(,. guarantee period and hand-over of completed facilities to the respective oper-            X  Z
ating agencies would span an additional 3 to 6 months.                                x
lb  Indicated quantities are approximate, given the nature of the programs and the need for flexibility.
7Ec Includes physical and nonphysical items.



Key Project Implementation Monitoring Indicators
2. Municipal Management Programs
Appraisal target               Percentage of target expenditures,
Expenditures               by GOI fiscal year
Com-     (Rp million)    1984/  1985/  1986/  1987/  1988/  1989
Programs                           Start    plete  (Jan 84 prices)       85     86      57     88     89      90
Financial planning/management    Deb- 84   Jun 88            960          5     20      35     30      10
Operation & maintenance studies  Dec e4   Dec 87             807          5     30      35     30      -
Land taxation programs             Dec 84   Dec 86           389          5     45      50      -      -
3. Techaical Assistance
Appraisal target               Percentage of target expenditures,
Expenditures               by GOI fiscal year
Com-     (Rp million)    19841  19851  1986!  19871  1988/  1989
Programs                           Start    plete  (Jan 84 prices)       85     86      87     88      89     90
Assitance to PIUs for project
execution                        Sep 84   Aug 88           504         10     20      30     35      10      -
Management assistance to PHUs    Sep 84   Aug 88             768         10     20      30     35      10
Technical advisory services to
Cipta Karya                      Sep 84   Aug 86           792         10     35      55      -       -      -
Strengthening of project pre-
paration unit at Cipta Karya   Dec 84   Dec 85             396          5     20      30     35      10      -
Sector and feasibility studies   Dec 84   Dec 89           1,050          5     20      30     30      10      5
Auditing of project accounts       Jul 85   Dec 90           168         15      15     15     15      15     15      CD x
;I-



- 60 -                                     ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Number of Ccntracts and Bank's Procurement Review Workload
A. Civil Works/Equipment Procurement
Est. no. of total contracts          Est. no. of contracts for Bank's review
ICB              LCB            Prior review basis /a    Post review basis /b
Equipment/  Civil  Equipment/  ICB (eqpt./  ICR (civiL  LCB (civil  LCB (eqpt./
vehicles   works   vehicles    vehicles)         works)       works)       vehicles)
Surabaya
KIP                -        40-50       -             -             -            5            -
SWIP              2-3       10-15      3-5           2-3            -            2             2
DRIP              2-3       20-25      1-2           2-3            -            5             1
Semaran_
KIP                -        50-60       -             -             -            5            -
SWIP              2-3        3-5       3-5           2-3            -            2             2
DRIP              2-3       16-20      1-2           2-3            -            4             1
Surakarta
KIP                -        30-40       -             -             -            5            -
SWIP              2-3        3-5       3-4           2-3            -            2             2
Ujung Pandang
.1:P               -        35-40       -             -             -            5            -
SWIP              2-3        2-3       1-2           2-3            -            2             1
DRIP              2-3       20-25      1-2           2-3            -            4            1
Total      14-21    229-288   13-22           14-21           -           41            10
B. Consultants' Contracts
Estimated number of    Estimated number of contracts
total contract packages       for Bank's prior review
Municipal Management Programs
Financial planning and management                     1                              1
Operation and maintenance                             1                              1
Land development taxes                               1-2                            1-2
Technical Assistance
Assistance to city PIUs for project
execution                                          3-4                            3-4
Management assistance to provincial
PMUs                                               1-3                            1-3
Technical advisory services to
Cipta Karya                                        1-2                            1-2
Strengthening of project preparation
unit at Cipta Karya                                1-2                            1-2
Urban sector and feasibility studies                 2-3                            2-3
Project accounts auditing services                    5                             1-2
Total                                          11-23                         11-20
/a  For all ICB contracts.  Prior review includes bidding documents, bid evaluation reports,
recommendation of bid award and draft contract documents.
/b  For randomly selected contracts; post review includes bid evaluation and contract awards.
7*J International firm as lead firm; may involve association with local firms as appropriate.
7ff Local firm as lead firm; may involve association with international firms as appropriate.



- 61 -                           ANNEX 13
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
($ mil.lion)
% Cumulative
disbursement
Country/
Bank         Semester                           Cumulative   Proposed  sector
FY           ending           Disbursement   disbursement  project   profile/a
85       December 31, 1984          0.1             0.1
June 30, 1985              0.8             0.9           2           5
86       December 31, 1985          1.5              2.4
June 30, 1986              1.7             4.1          10          20
87       December 31, 1986          2.9              7.0
June 30, 1987              3.9            10.9          28          40
88       December 31, 1987          4.7            15.6
June 30, 1988              5.1            20.7          53          60
89       December 31, 1988          5.4            26.1
June 30, 1989              5.4            31.5          80          78
90       December 31, 1989          3.8            35.5
June 30, 1990              3.95           39.25        100          89
Loan closing date: December 31, 1990
/a Based on historical disbursement experience with Bank-financed urban proj-
ects in Indonesia; loan fully disbursed (1002) over a seven-year period
from the date of effectiveness.



- 62 -
ANNEX 14
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Responsibilities for Project Facilities
Component                Agencies involved                  Funding source
Provincial Level
Primary canals         Provincial Public Works         Provincial budgetary alloca-
Department (PWD) in coor-         tion
dination with local PWD
Municipal Level
Main roads             Local PWD                       Local budgetary allocation
Becak roads            local PWD                       Local budgetary allocation
Drainage               Drainage division of            Local budgetary allocation
local PWD
Solid waste trans-    Cleansing department or          Local budgetary allocation
port and disposal      division
Water supply provi-   Water supply enterprise          Water tariff and PDAM's bud-
sion and billings      (PDAM)                          getary allocation
Primary schools        Department of Education         Local budgetary allocation and
grants
Health clincs          Department of Health            Local budgetary allocation
and grants
Community Level
Footpaths              "Self-help" labor (gotong       -
royong)
Garbage collection    Locally organized groups         Fee collection by local
(LKMD) /a                       groups /a
Public taps and        Operation and routine           Fee Collection by local
sanitation (MCK)       maintenance by locally          groups /a
facilities             organized groups (LKMD)
with PDAM involvement /a
/a LKMD in each kampung consists of local leaders (RT/RW Chiefs and Lurah). It is
divided into various subgroups, one of which is the social unit which has been
traditionally in charge of organizing and collecting fee for local garbage
collection and other social services. LKMD is also involved in the operation of
water taps, either directly or through a concessionaire system. Water users pay
a charge to LKMD or to the concessionaire on volume basib. In the case of MCKs,
a user-charge is normally levied and collected by LKMD.



- 63 -                       ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Review of City Governments
1.        All financial data expressed in current prices.
2.        No real term increase in FY1982/83 levels of routine revenues and
routine expenditures, Government subsidies and development expenditures
(except for the expenditures incurred in connection with the proposed
project); increases due to price escalation, assumed to be 20% in 1983, 15% in
1984, 11% in 1985, and 7% thereafter.
3.        Revenues from development taxes and land taxes (Ipeda) projected to
increase annually at 5% in real terms beginning in FY1983/84;
4.        Foreign loans mainly comprised of IBRD loans; estimate based on
likely commitments.
5.        Local loans mainly comprised of Government loans for market and
commercial area development ("Inpres Pasar", for example, is an interest-free
market loan with a 10-year repayment period); projections based on anticipated
economic development in the cities.



- 64 -                                                            ANNEX 15
Page 2
INDONESIA: FTFTH URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL REVIEW OF CITY 6OVERNMENTS
City of Surabaua
(RP sillion)
Actual                                         Projected
1979180  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83             1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
Routine Accounts
Revenues                                         6185      9978    12600    17655               21186    24364    27044    28937    30963
Expenditures                                     6105      8410    12410    15280               18336    21086    23406    25044    26797
SurPlus from Routin Accounts                     80      1568      190     2375                2850     3278      3638     3893      '165
__- -  - - - -- --                        --  -- -    -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -- -         -- -- -    -- -- -   -- -- -   - - ---- _-_-__ _ __ _ _-_-__ _ _ __ _-_ _
Development Accounts
Balance carried forward                            12      546      3754         -
Surplus trom routine accounts                      80      1568      190     2375                2850     3278      3638     3893      4165
Development taxes and others                     1693      1996     1200     1368                1710     2052      2380     2666     2986
Land taxes (IPEDA)                               1426      1869     2000     2400                3000     3600      4176     4677      5238
Sub Total                                      3199     5433      3390     6143                7560     8930    10194    11236    12389
INPRES infrastructure                            1153     1533      2094     2378               2854      3282     3643      3898     4170
Other GDvernment subsidies                        171     3131      5551      1749               209?     2414      2679     2867     3067
Sub Total                                      1324     4664      7645     4127               4952      5605      6322     6764     7238
Development loans - Local                         425     5700      3533     4000               4586      9758     8528      7110     6877
- Foreign                      700      1000     3000     3500                   -     4078      3196     1874      1874
Sub Total                                      1125     6700      6533     7500               4586    13836    11724       8984     8751
Total DeveloPeent Funds                        5660    17343    21322    17770               17098    28461    28241    26984    28378
Developaent Expenditures
World Bank Urban Projects
- Urban (3)                     1413      2133     2129      2500                           -         -        -         -
- Urban (5)                        -         -        -         -                  -     7832      6138     3599      3598
Other development Projects                       3701    11408    18924    15000                15000    17250    19148    20488    21922
Sub Total                                      5114    13541    21053    17500                15000    25082    25286    24087    25520
Debt  servioe                                       -       48       269       270               2098     3379      2955     2897     2858
Total Developaent Expenditures                 5114    13589    213?2    17770                17098    28461    28241    26984    28378
City Contribution to Project,                                                                             2226      1744     1023      1022
FINANCIAL INDICATORS;
Debt Service Ratios:
Bebt Service/
Self-generated Dev't Funds       0.00      0.01     0.08     0.04                0.28     0.38      0.29     0.26      0.23
Debt Service/
Dev't Funds before Loans         0.00      0.00     0.02     0.03                0.17     0.23      0.18     0.16     0.15
Bank Project Costs/
Total Dev't Funds                0.25      0.12     0.10     0.14                0.00     0.28      0.22     0.13      0.13
Citv Contribution to Project/
Self-generated Dev't Funds                                                                0.25      0.17     0.09      0.08



- 65 -                                                   ANNEX  15
Page 3
INDONESIA: FIFTH URBAN DEVELOP1ENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL REVIEW OF CITY GOVERNlENTS
Cits of Se.arang
(RP million)
Actual                                         Projected
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83             1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88
Routine Accounts
Revenues                                         3950      5249     6361     8214                9857    11335    12582    13463    14405
Expenditures                                     3478      4691     5736      7112               8534     9815    10894    11657    12473
Surplus from Routin Accounts                    472      558       625      1102               1322     1521      1688     1806      1933
Development Accounts
Balance carried forward                            77       167       37         -
Surplus from routine accounts                     472      558       625      1102               1322     1521      1688     1806      1933
Development taxes and others                      427       518      672       832               1040     1248      1448     1621      1816
Land taxes (IPEDA)                                311      440       654       800               1000     1200      1392     1559      1746
Sub Total                                      1210      1516     1951     2734                3362     3969     4528      4987     5495
INPRES infrastructure                             573      775      1088     1240                1488     1711      1899     2032     2175
Other Governsent subsidies                         17       36       358       260                312      359       398      426      456
Sub Total                                       590      811      1446     1500                1800     2070     2298      245?     2631
Developnent loans - Local                         140       64       113        -                -982      921      1232      419      205
- Foreign                       52      949      1041      209                   -     1868     2518      2031     1705
Sub Total                                       192     1013      1154      209               -982      2789     3750      2450     1910
Total Development Funds                        2069     3507      4568     4443               4180      8828    10575      9895    10036
Develompent Expenditures
Vorld Bank Urban Projects
- Urban (3)                      155       884     1681       880                                -        -              -
- Urban (5)                        -         -        -         -                  -     3781     5095      4110      3451
Other developeent rrojects                       1648     2493      2692     3242               3890      4474     4966      5314     5686
Sub Total                                      1803     3377      4373     4122               3890      8255    10061      9424     9137
Debt  service                                      99       93       215      321                290       573      514       471      899
Total Development Expenditures                 1902     3470      4588     4443               4180      8828    10575      9B95    10036
Cith Contribution to Project!                                                                              783     1055       851      715
FINANCIAIL INDICATORS;
Debt Service Ratios:
Debt Service/
Selt-generated Dev't Funds       0.08      0.06     0.11      0.12               0.09     0.14      0.11     0.09      0.16
Debt Service/
Dev t Funds betore Loai.s        0.05      0.03     0.05      0,07               0.06     0.09      0.08     0.06      0.11
bani Project Costs/
Total Dev't Funds                0.07      0.25     0.37      0.20               0.00     0.43       .;5     0.42      0.34
City Contributicn I: Project/
Self-generated Dev't Funds                                                                0.20      0.23     0.17      0.13



- 66 -                                                 ANNEX  15
Page 4
INDONESIA: FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PP.OJECT
FINANCIAL REVIEW OF CITY GOVERNMENTS
Cxts of Surakarta
(RP million)
Actual                                        Projected
1979/80  1980/81  1981182  1982/83            1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986187  1987/88
Routine Accounts
Revenues                                        2151     2713      2802     3234               3881     4463      4954     5301     5672
Expenditures                                    1861     2394      2361     2833               3400     3910      4340     4643     4968
Surplus from Routin Accounts                   290      319       441      401                481      553      614       657      703
Development Accounts
Balance carried forward                          753      200        24                      -                       -        -        -
Surplus from routine accounts                    290      319       441      401                481      553      614       657      703
Developnent taxes and others                     246      203       492      500                625      750      870       974     1091
Land taxes (IPEDA)                                68       98       157      230                288      345      400       448      502
Sub Total                                      604      620      1090     1131               1394     1648      1884     2080     2297
INPRES infrastructure                            265      369       484      551                661      760      844       903      966
Other Government subsidies                        12        10       16       15                 18       21        23       25       26
Sub Total                                      277      379       500      566                679      781      867       928      993
Development loans - Local                         99      215       790      800                631     1414      1812     1713     1521
- Foreign                     227       313      319         -                 -       580      736      513       400
Sub ,otal                                      326      528      1109      800                631     1994      2548     2226     1921
Total Development Funds                       1960     1727      2723     2497               2704     4423     5300      5233     5210
Development Expenditures
World Bank Urban Projects
- Urban (3)                      121      374      454       228                           -                 -         -
- Urban (5)                        -        -        -         -                 -      1275     1617     1127       882
Other development Projects                      1616     1263      2118     2119               2543     2924     3246      3473     3716
Sub Total                                     1737      1637     2572     2347               2543     4199     4863      4600     4598
Debt  service                                     23       66       151      150                161      224      437       633      612
Total Development Expenditures                1760     1703      2723     2497               2704     4423     5300      5233     5210
Cits Contribution to Project:                                                                            386      489       341      267
FINAKCIAL INDICATORSi
Debt Service Ratios!
Debt Servicel
Sell-generated Dev't Funds      0.04      0.11     0.14     0.13               0.12     0.14      0.23     0.30     0.27
Debt Service/
Dev't Funds before Loans         0.03     0,07     0.09     0.09               0.08     0.09      0.16     0.21     0.19
Dank Project Cost/
Total Dev't Funds                0.06     0.22     0.17     0.09               0.00     0.29      0.31     0.22     0.17
CitY Contribution to Project                                                                     0.23      0.26     0.16      0.12



- 67 -                                                        ANNEX  15
Page 5
INDONESIA: FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL REVIEW OF CITY BUIERNMENTS
CitY of Ujung Pandang
(RP aillion)
Actual                                         Projected
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83             1983/84  1984/85  1965/86  1986/87  1987/88
Routin. Accounts
Revenues                                         4778     6753      8241      9646              11575    13311    14776    15810    16917
Expenditures                                     4324     6124      7969      9085              10902    12537    13916    14891    15933
SurPlus from Routir, Accounts                   454       629      272      561                 673      774       859      919       984
_- - - - - - -- - - - - - -              --  -- -    -- -- -   --  -- -   -- -- -        -- - - -   - - -- -   -- -- -   -- -- - _---__ __----__ _ _-  __ _ _     _ _ _ _
Development Rccounts
Balance carried forward                           188       377      743         -                  -        -         -        -         -
Surplus from routine accaunts                     454      629       272      561                 673      774      859       919       984
Development taxes and others                      669      908      1098      1382              1728      2073     2405      2693      3016
Land taxes (IPEDA)                                265      300       460      500                 625      750      870       974      1091
Sub Total                                      1388     1837      1830      2443              3026      3597      4134     4587      5092
INPRES infrastructure                             806     1091      2185     2490               2988      3436     3814      4081     4367
Other Government subsidies                        113       102      735      837               1004      1155      1282     1372      1468
Sub Total                                       919     1193      2920      3327              3992      4591     5096      5453      5835
Development loans - Local                         270      400       658      600                   0     1683      1737     1713       144
- Foreign                      813       898      999         -                  -     1331      1285     1423       552
Sub Total                                      1083     1298      1657      600                   0     3014     3022      3136       696
Total Development Funds                        3578     4705      7150     6370               7018    11203    12252    13176    11622
Developaent Expenditures
World Bank Urban Projects
- Urban (3)                      772      1453     1255      1030
- Urban (5)                        -         -        -         -                  -     3322      3208     3552      1377
Other developsent Projects                       2251     2460      5895      5340              6631      7626     8464      9057     9691
Sub Total                                      3023     3913      7150     6370               6631    10948    11672    12609    11068
Debt  service                                     178        49        -         -                387      255      580       567      554
Total Developuent Expenditures                 3201     3962      7150     637 0              7018    11203    12252    13176    11622
City Contribution to Proaect:                                                                             350       500    600         452
FINANCIAL INDICATORS;
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Debt Service Ratios:
Debt Service/
Self-senerated Dev't Funds       0.13      0,03     0.00      0.00               0.13     0.07      0.14     0.12      0.11
Debt Service/
Dev't Funds betore Loans         0.08      0,02     0.00      O.00               0.06     0.03      0.06     0.06      0.05
Bank Proiect Cost/
Total 8ey't Funds                0.22      0.31     0.18      0.16               0.00     0.30      0.26     0.2?     0.12
Citw Contribution to Projec/
Self-senerated Dev't Funds                                                                0.10    0. 12   0. 13    0.08



- 68-                              ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        KIP.  As with earlier urban projects, the standard measure of bene-
fits used for the economic analyses of the KIP project components was the
Lncreased rental value in the project areas. These values were obtained
through surveys of project areas as well as comparison nonproject areas, which
have already benefitted from KIP. The rental value figures are estimates of
the willingness to pay for improvements, and these may not necessarily capture
the full benefits of the project, such as increased health, productivity,
economic activity and convenience in project areas. The KIP areas for which
benefits were calculated, and the estimated increases in rental values were
the following:
City                Area            Households         Rental Value Increase
(annual)
Surabaya                 928 ha              60,148          Rp 2.8 million per ha
Semarang                 600 ha              41,000          Rp 1.9 million per ha
Surakarta                400 ha              15,000          Rp 1.4 miLlion per ha
Ujung Pandang            500 ha              34,000          Rp 3.0 million per ha
For Surabaya and Ujung Pandang, the estimates of rental value increases were
derived through detailed comparisons of improved and unimproved areas, by
house type and location (e.g., permanent, semi-permanent or temporary
structures and location on vehicular roads or footpaths). For the other two
cities, rental value increases are based on average per ha estimates. Project
cost estimates used for economic analysis include all costs of infrastructure,
including design and supervision costs, as well as annual operation and
maintenance costs. The economic rates of return for each city are summarized
in the text (para. 5.01). The cost and benefit streams for each city and
further elaboration on the methodology used are available in the project file.
2.        DRIP.  For the drainage compcnent of the project (DRIP), to avoid
double counting of benefits (i.e., using both the increased rental values in
the area and the savings due to flood control and damage reduction) and to use
what appear to be the most reliable figures, the economic analysis employed
only the rental value increases as benefits. This measure of benefits,
estimated from a variety of different sources, probably under-estimates the
full benefits of the project, which inc:ude improved health, reduced
maintenance costs and other savings due to flood control. The DRIP areas for
which benefits were calculated, and the estimated increases in rental values
were the following:



- 69 -                             ANNEX 16
Page 2
City                Area             Rental V.lue Increase
(r.nnual)
Surabaya             3,000 ha            Rp 0.3 million per ha
Semarang             1,000 ha            Rp 1.7 million per ha
Ujung Pandang        1,230 ha            Rp 1.0 million per ha
Though there is some overlap between the KIP and DRIP areas, it was assumed
that the increases in rental values due to major drainage investment (DRIP)
were above and beyond those due to KIP.  Project cost estimates used for
economic analysis include all costs of infrastructure, including design and
supervision costs, as well as annual operation and maintenance costs. The
economic rates of return for each city are summarized in the text (para.
5.01). The cost and benefits streams for each city and further elaboration on
the methodology used are available in the project file.
3,        SWIP.  The benefits of the solid waste component of the project
(SWIP) were not quantified directly, but in view of the close relationship
between this component and the DRIP component, the costs of SWIP may be added
to those of DRIP for purposes of economic analysis. In the absence of SWIP,
the effectiveness of drainage investments will be reduced considerably due to
clogging of drainage channels. The joint evaluation of DRIP and SWIP was
'complished through sensitivity analysis for the DRIP component (i.e., a 20%
increase in costs) and the results indicated that when the two components are
treated jointly, the economic rate of return remains within acceptable limits
(see Table V-I, para. 5.01 in the text). The economic justification of these
components would be further enhanced if account was taken of their health and
other benefits or the fact that maintenance costs for the DRIP system may be
reduced by effective solid waste collection due to SWIP.



- 70 -
ANNEX 17
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Project Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies
1. Detailed KIP Feasibility Study Reports (August 1983) for: Surabaya KIP
Report by P.T. RMI Consultants; Ujung Pandang KIP Report by Trans-Asia,
Inc; and Semarang/Surakarta KIP Report by P.T. Pamintori.
2. Detailed SWIP Feasibility Study Reports (November 1982 and May 1983)
for: Semarang/Surakarta/Ujung Pandang SWIP. Report by Sc. tt and Furphy
Engineers Pty. Ltd.
3.  Drainage Improvements in Surabaya (August 1983).  Report by P.1.
Indulexco.
4.  Drainage Improvement Program:  Ujuag Pandang (August 1983).  Report by
P.T. Virama Karya.
5. Semarang Drainage Project (August 1983). Report by P.T. Deserco
Development Services.
6. Fifth Urban Development Project (January 1984). Report by Cipta Karya.
B. Working Papers
1. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, August 19, 1983.
2.  Economic Analysis.
3. TOR for Consultants' Assistance.
4. Detailed Cost Estimate Worksheet!i.
5. Annual Cash Flow Statements by Funding Source.
6. Project Progress Monitoring Indicators and Report Formats.



- 71 -
C1-IART I
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Interrelationships Between Principal Executing Agencies
(For KIP, SWIP, anid DRIP  and  Finance  Related  Functions)
HAT1ONXA
Beppencn
r _ ~~~~~Nal"'  r lP ntr
r-  -  -      -  -  -     -          P10-   5 o0                                                       -
Dlfecrop?Qo Ge                                                             (Go l Ardn'MLIfl                        GOr rO                          Dl Bwof 
.~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~                                                                                            ~~~~~~~ dfilh ce)__ .  _
(plPs2t fl OIg |                                                                                                           cst Ion'
&  orIfodnRg)
OEldratr5l                                                                      Crctorota    Ie?,lIea
_                                                                  121no~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l Koto
Santloy Envlnaerra   _                                                   _   (U  DrrS eq CO
|  urrohon    _  1                                   r       & Aulo~~~~~~Pk~iFimon                                O.'ectooo
ln*oataetLa)                                                                & At,cyOr
C2lY&r sneoe,                                                           Lentt(Je 
5Cflorln                                                             (Agrao)o 
PRC,atOL*I
_ LWSL I)
F-   -    -o -____ -__ -__ -__ -____            -__ - 
|    -anto WlayCh |||||Oh
(Ko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.41) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     (Ool
<   Rhcol Brencn  k _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _               f  | |               _                         1 ral               ?e, -  o      [ i          f ill
LtM\dioo     s                   OpoKry                                                                      Se DnsPI  |||Rvance IsIetoertets                 ;Gin |O?OOW Aelg*rozsrGO
j-0     -; }l j    DMs n    j |. (Ps2ngr21aan)  |e . a) r) |                                                                                                o                A  |d
Proet Eoas.Ala|                                                                                                                                                                     |
(LE.flL Ii)
rGnO GUl)Leo lfl  I??0r
|~~~~~~~~~~~~Le, eSipnona &14|  
Prow-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bIII|                                                         (1N
..Ntaffil.  |    WodaDepl       t                     E.    r - -
VA~~~~~~~~~~~~~k' Dep ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      Wol  ori-OS
'  l l  l    '  l      ~~(DlnosPUII)   |    ||||||tllseLrl 
(AI I    (0)                                                                                4 11 1 
: =                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W.dd 20hk -25626



jilt     ff1
e  J
Li'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
L--   --   --   --   --   ---   --   --   --   --   --   



INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizational Structure for Project Implementation and Supevision
Government of Indonesio                                            I
,           l                                                                                    (r,>;es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otiFonlevel
Dolom Negewr           Public Works             Mn of efveonj
Or, Ger PUOD       D,r Gen Corto <aria    h     Inonce
| - -…-I                                                                      …j…L                                        …-o v r                                          Centrol JOva
KontortrWleych PU (Kanwil)                            XOt _                                  ovra       l |
F     Kantor Wilayah P U (Ka-7                          Pol,cv Steering                  Ectsh Prncol Level
Uroon V Project Mgnt Unit (PMU)                                                     (Project MGtc0rrarent)
Central G    mvernment                  .           M
Treasuryr                              Project Mo ogernrvet &'
(Provincial Btanch)                         Supervsion Consultonts_
Protect Fnonce                          Project                          Locol Steenr,g                                          Ulung Pondong
Office (pFO)                     oCodrnatot                            Comm                                                  Sutroario
Semao'ng
KIs ~u-e                      Cle    Dpartment                    Pubtic Workts VeOorrtrrer,t
As'KIP UntASRU-SIMP                                 }                  As PrU-DPIP                               Each City Level
(Ail Cities)                       (All Cties)        i             (Except n SurOkottO)                       (Fte-d Implementobion)
ProICt Impelentntratn Acteitires Design Tenerng. Procurernent & Constwct,on                                                                               n
Piu  - Project Impel entotion Unit
PMU - Pwect mtenogement Unit
World Bonrt-25628



74                                                                      CHART 4
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Prc'lect ImplementaUlon Schediule
cl1Y/cOMPONELNr    GO1 AY848                     i58                  86/87_87/88                          08/89             89t90
A   J   0   J              S   4     A   JO    J                     A        i      0   J    A   4   0
KAMPIJNG IMPROVEtMEN1 PROGOIAMi
Land Acu.ption             ~s                         
Dosign & Tendotlng
ConttuctionI 
Commumpy Pol.cpotscn                       11mm0          on     gmu t     m =a l  m  ML m  m   a m   
SOLID WASIE IMPQOVEMENT PR0C,TRMl
ALI CrITES E".CEPI SIJIZA3AYk    
Ci .wde F~Im,ceio Programn 
(Tianslnco .clors Goroges etc.)
Vehlcies 8& Equ.pme,ni                 Nw
CTrucns Coas 08rt. etc.
cldRANAExirAt'EOnUf PR0GtiA8m
Vehone & EQU.PaT'en
(TncksComMA AEwis etc.)z                                                                                                     
TCNCLan ASqusiSTlonp                                          ~ 
DRAJNAGE IMPRVEMEN- PPOinA
____L__L__ME__I    
Note   n &O TeV   - a~) I tNO,IJMO   3
Rcf,abi'W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,onWrl 8t- 52



IBRD 17528
INDONESIA                                                                                      do'              do'               1o0               DECEMBER  198
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                               h              00003,1
SURAKARTA                                                                                   o0            OOO   0AI000AA                                                00
PIIOPOSI 0 PROJECI                                                                                  't                          03A0AW00A
Ilanononol Iool,rOoool 0Io03 119 tItUlI UrIINII P,p1r,t                                                .'AWA
rII.,oo( 1C&31 107980                                                           100 (0o0             I °0 120                         1[0l      A0IP1ALIUA
IlAILWAoYS
IllVf RS
1S0T1RICI BOUN0ARIES
IN11 RNATIONAL IOUN1AIIIES
j/         m    /r                                                                                                     ,0
/  BAN JARSARI                                           '
j: 0                                           ',                                        )
1                     L{*                                    ,,,(             ~'                 //                                                   (  
>   -  LAWEYAN      /    ;                    S             >;         \          t   \            ,                  JEBRES
/     t                                                                   / Z   
'Io_,  /
<i           r~                           k                                 h    h   r  PV   db
-| !                                                                                             GVDoure~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00.ooo, COo A0003003031,00
010'0 00 r,;0 W or 10030 00
OO!oO ;lool V0- 1cpo,eoboo  U
t.|t6VlltlDS ,U   I  _   Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~WlA ., ~
000,' --.1   ,00-



IBRD  17529
tHAILAND       10Q            17c0     PHWLPPINES                                                                                                                     NOV-EMBER 1983
BRUNEI                                                                                               IN DO N ES IA
M A L A Y S I A                                                                  FIFTH  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.5.    0v trNo^ .11" ,XMn,V'1tv                                          .                                                     SURABAYA
|   N   Ii  C,   N       $ S    I   FN        V'l)A ' j                            PROPOSED  PROJECT:                            PREVIOUS  PROJECT
rbJoin, o                                       / 1[~z                              Kvnmpungs to bo improved           |           Kampungs improved during Second
05-abo                        M     C.l                                     Urban Proaect(LoLn 13361; 1976-79
iO0AA                                                                                              MTrinry drCanas aocated Dra KIP nors               Kannpungs improved during Third
oo-*           ilJ0           i25~            i5 Toi  d                                                            loae it? KIP aws             Urban  Project(Loan 1G63;) 1979-83
_-  ---  - Drainaqe imprcvements
TrnIa non boa be rlolrnor nv                                                                                                                             ILoern 1336 andd othersl
kl b. ~4IktCb  t 1.&..flb
ion be.z i o.OibeiniF *b /sr
rood, onerrrdn onilisenbi l? rne
o,iienoi .io Oi leostole Don                               . 
seam     oio,04iOD    fl I S    o r  no      \                  I                                                                                  Roads
bOnn, mobIl ib iOnO'On on be                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ra Il1ways
neobio lee Shd kIO'Sd^ ndJlro                 \              #   j    \    ,             _             J                                           Rivers
iSienobb norS 0c-ft-,e\                                     \i  |  /  r  7                          r                                          -   D strict Boundaries
one wdO!n onie iS /000 Oid^                   \ i               , \\   ~ *,            /          II--
ebiul'Ondleb  no oreltor sncrO'                 \               \ \  \        -"  tOi  '-1r iAie  > ~  S   AM_P-                                    International Boundcries
C~    KA,
/                                         0         1 04  l t   7i   /   /    X  }  2  3  4
:     sAW6448COl/ ,                                            C\\'')  - I 0  - -                                       MILES
-1---- --t                                                                                               ---
A/ .AVOP1A A,                                                                                              I      -.
['~~                    ~ 1 '.'.1 !  - .    
'/UIGKU 
..   ,r                      . /  '| ''                                                            La
/' # I/
_,~ ,/-I



__________________________________ I8RD    17530
NOVEMBER 1083
INDONESIA                                               _                                        BRUNEII                    PHILIPPINES
MALAYSIA 
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                *7NOAPORE
SEMARANG                                           ~oSU LAWrSI
IRIAN JAYA
PROPOSED PROJECT
Kenpnpgs to ba improved                                                                   JAA
-     M.lv wanrls and drai,,
//'Z< nra}naga cress to be affected
PREVIOUS PROJECT
Kampunge improved d.rivE Third Urben Project                                                                                 Wa   v.e v. Teev.ovr
ILon 1t631; 1D79-83
EXISTING DRAINS                                                                                                              Ov,      .  tv_ C
ROADS                                                                                                                        .rcavr v Te
RAILWVAYS                                                                                                                    ira.virvcCrvav
RIVERS
-    -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS  0              1               2             3
MILES
tO rLiRAOA 'A   YOGGAKARTA



IBRD 17531
NOVEMBER 1983
I NDON ESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UJUNG PANDANG
PROPOSED  PROJECT,
Kampungs to be inproved
Drains                                                                                                    7.z
Tertiary adrins locared in KIP areas are not h,wn) )-                                 -
PREVIOUS  PROJECT-                                                   -        r                          ' )                        NA iA
Kampung Improved during Third Urbon Project               -   *      -  t                              \\
(Loan 1653) 1979-83 
Main Canals                                    /      y                            T               °        t
Rivers
District Boundaries                                               /.                /                                                              K
--   InternationclI ftunclaries
KILOAETERS
MILES
^ -                                     
PA NAKKI7AKANG
MAR
N              I i~~~:~~~'rAM                         IA
s~~                                     \   \
THAILAND   110i             20     PHILIPPINES           140
r='     r     e w>Oo BRUNEI          -
N r~~~ 19t 8XnA s lar e^, ~~~~~~~~~~~~s,^* ~~M A L A Y S I A 
ffj<. r  Dn.- O 5, AIJMAIV/AV                                   jz-
MALAYSIA   L        -~~~~~~~'IA
sIJr' e       \S/    ''   1
,., ,Cihen'5d                               N   D  r   N (  '; I iA                    IAnAj
a'@ d.r.s.rn, -Va vrY,,e                                 Pa,donrg
oca          115            120.            0            1WA1D
s ^ o._,           IrDox          \0O           120'           130,           140'



