Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 11501
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2408-IND)
DECEMBER 24, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -  Rupiah (Rp)
At Appraisal US$ 1  -  Rp 1,000
Rp 100  -  US$0.10
Value to April 12, 1984 : US$1 - Rp 1,000
Value as of September412, 1987 : US$1 - Rp 1,644
Value as of June 30, 1992 : US$1 - Rp 2,000
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter       (m)        =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer   (km)       -   0.62 miles
1 cubic meter (cu m)    =  35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare     (ha)       -   2.47 acres
1 liter (lit) per (lcd) -   0.26 US gallons per
capita per day                capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPEDA      - Local Development Planning Agency
Cipta Karya  - Directorate General of Housing, Building,
Planning, and Urban Development in the
Ministry of Public Works
CPMO         = Central Project Management Office
DGHS         = Directorate General for Human Settlements
DRIP         - Drainage Improvement Program
GOI          - Government of Indonesia
IPEDA        - former National Real Property Tax for
Regional Development, superceded in 1986 by PBB
IUIDP        - Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Programme
KIP          - Kampung Improvement Program
MAPADA       = Municipal Tax Assessment & Collection System
Efficiency Project
MHA          = Ministry of Home Affairs
MOF          - Ministry of Finance
MPW          - Ministry of Public Works
PCR          - Project Completion Report
PIU          - Project Implementing Unit
PMU          - Project Management Unit
POMMS        - Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management System
PUOD          - Directorate General of Public Administration
and Regional Autonomy in the Ministry of Home Affairs
Repelita III - Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979-84)
Repelita IV  C Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (1985-89)
Repelita V   = Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1989-94)
SWIP         = Solid Waste Improvement Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONL)
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 23, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Fifth Urban Development Project (Loan 2408-IND)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Indonesia - Fifth Urban Development Project (Loan 2408-IND)" prepared by the
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The report is of good quality.
The project achieved, or exceeded, all of its physical objectives
including expansion of some components to absorb "savings" due to currency
devaluation. The project is a good example of Borrower commitment, of effective
project administration and of the potential of a "programmatic approach" to urban
development through a series of lending operations. Not all the institutional
objectives of the project were achieved, however. In particular, strengthening
of municipal government, enhanced local resource mobilization and improved
maintenance arrangements call for much additional effort.   On balance, the
project is rated as satisfactory, and its sustainability as uncertain.
This project is scheduled for audit, as part of a "cluster", also
including the Third and Fourth Urban Development Projects (Loans 1653-IND and
1972-IND, respectively) and the Urban Sector Loan (Loan 2816-IND).
Attachment                                  (    I 3
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table of Contents
Pare No.
PREFACE   .       ................................................        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................              ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW
Section  1: Project Identity ......            ....................   1
Section  2: Background            ..........................   I
Section  3: Previous Bank Involvement .....            ............   2
Section  4: Follow-on Initiatives .....            ................   5
Section  5: Project Objectives and Description .... ....   6
Section  6: Project Design and Organization               ........   9
Section  7: Project Implementation .....            ...............  10
Section  8: Project Results              .....      ...............  12
Section  9: Project Sustainability .....            ...............  13
Section 10: Bank Performance             .....      ...............  14
Section 11: Borrower Performance    .....           ...............  16
Section 12: Project Relationships   .....           ...............  18
Section 13: Consulting Services          .....      ...............  18
Section 14: Project Documentation and Data  ....           .......  19
PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION
Section A: Main Findings and Lessons Learned            ......   20
Section B: Summary of Bank Role and Performance ......   22
Section C: Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance ..   22
PART III: PROJECT PROFILE
Table 1: Related Bank Loans              ....      ...............   24
Table 2: Project Timetable Summary .....            ..............   25
Table 3: Loan Disbursements ..........................   27
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing Summary .... .....   28
Table 5: Amendment of Loan Allocation  ....            ...........   30
Table 6: Loan Covenant Compliance             ....     ...........   31
Table 7: Completion of Physical Targets  ....           .........   33
Table 8: Project Performance Indicators  ....           .........   36
Table 9: Technical Assistance Summary           ....    .........   37
Annex 1: Performance-Oriented
Maintenenace Management System  ....          ..........   43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth Urban
Development Project in Indonesia. Basic descriptive data includes:
Loan  No.                         2408-IND
Loan Amount                       $ 39.25 million
Board Approval Date              May 8, 1984
Loan Completion Date              December 31, 1990
Completion Delays                 June 30, 1991 (6 months)
Z of Loan Disbursed               99%
Final Disbursement Date           November 10, 1991
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Asia Region
Technical Department (ASTIN), in close consultation with the Infrastructure
Operations Division of Country Department 3, East Asia and Pacific Region, and
the Borrower (see Part II for a summary of the Borrower's evaluation).
Preparation of this PCR was discussed with the Government of Indonesia
(GOI) representatives by the resident mission staff in June 1992. GOI staff and
consultants initiated preparation of the Borrower's Evaluation (Part II) during
the fourth quarter of 1991, with the final Urban V supervision mission, February
1992, providing additional guidance. This report is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement and project supervision reports,
consultant outputs, correspondence between the Bank and GOI, internal Bank
memoranda and the February 1992 mission.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
i.        The objectives of the project were to: (a) continue to improve basic
urban services in predominantly low-income neighborhoods (KIP) in four project
cities, together with complementary provision of solid waste (SWIP) and drainage
infrastructure (DRIP), and improving implementation arrangements related to
deliver these services; (b) strengthen the municipal administration in the
project cities, by improving financial planning, budgeting and management as well
as operation and maintenance of infrastructure; and (c) augment the capacity for
local resource mobilization. (See para 5.01).
Implementation Experience
ii.       Based on exceptionally thorough project preparation by GOI and the
local governments, project implementation generally progressed smoothly, with
only a three month delay in setting up the Project Implementation Units (PIUs)
for SWIP and DRIP (RIP Units were already in place from the previous Urban III
project), appointing the Project Manager and the consultants for detailed SWIP
and KIP design.
iii. Due to the devaluation of the rupiah from appraisal to project closing,
works and consultancy services were extended to accommodate the funds. This was
accomplished with a minimum amount of disruption to the project because: (a)
there was already a prepared list of priority investments for KIP projects, which
the cities had previously prepared; (b) the CPMO became the Bank's intermediary
in appraisal of the expansion proposals; and (c) the extended program was
implemented within the time-frame allocated for the original project. (See paras
7.01, 7.02).
Results
iv.       All of the principal objectives of the project were achieved and
physical infrastructure targets exceeded. This was due to the agreed re-
investment of additional rupiah created as a result of the devaluation.
Sectorally, the project became a bridge between previous urban projects (Urban
III and IV) and those that followed (JUDP III, East Java-Bali, Sulawesi-Irian
Jaya), clearly demonstrating the feasibility of the GOI policy to prepare and
pursue integrated infrastructure programs for urban areas on a national scale.
In addition, although there is still need for improvement, local government
capacities to design and manage such operations were largely proven, with the
experience gained providing much of the framework for the subsequent development
of the IUIDP approach (Urban Sector Loan). (See paras 8.01, 8.02, 9.02-a).



- iii -
Sustainability
v.        The KIP, SWIP and DRIP components of the project improved the living
environment of those affected substantially, through improved access to urban
services, economic opportunities and public health. To a large extent the project
mirrored the physical achievements of Urban III and Urban IV, which included many
of the same factors impacting the sustainability of the Urban V project. The
institutions responsible for project development have generally demonstrated
their capability to undertake the programs needed, and indeed have demonstrated
the need for such projects as well as community support for their implementation.
The main issue which concerns sustainability involves the ability of the
municipalities to significantly improve their local resource mobilization
capabilities, as this will impact their ability to adequately operate and
maintain the facilities. To assist the municipalities, the project initiated a
detailed review of local resources and the local resource base in the project
cities. Nonetheless, to date there has been little progress in this area. In an
effort to address the 0 & M issue, specifically the provision of sufficient
resources in terms of both funds and manpower, a Performance-Oriented Maintenance
Management System (POMMS) was introduced under this project, an initiative which
has proven successful and replicable (see paras 9.01, 9.02), and was formalized
in all project cities by a MHA Ministerial Decree in 1990 (KEPMIN 6/90).
Findings and Lessons Learned
vi.       The  project  yielded  significant  results,  both  physically  and
sectorally. However, these were achieved in large part because of detailed
attention to project design, significant resource commitment to the resolution
of procurement, disbursement and operational-related problems, and local
government performance. (See Part II)
vii.      The main findings and lessons are:
(a)  a further demonstration of the appropriateness of the KIP
approach and its replicability, including success of the KIP
project implementation unit in achieving the physical aims
of the project. Support of longer term strengthening of
established local governments, however, was not attained.
GOI investment in detailed project preparation (preparation
of manuals for each project city), paid substantive
dividends in implementation performance;
(b)  importance of a well-functioning PMU, with support systems requiring
close monitoring to realize full benefits;
(c)  sanitation, as the most difficult problem in the kampungs,
with communal facilities effective in the short term when
well managed, if appropriate access and a reliable water
supply is available. Otherwise it is difficult to realize
full potential benefits. More efficient and effective
sanitation programs still need to be identified for longer
term;
(d)  local resource mobilization remains one of the key ingredients for
sustainability, with little progress recorded to date;



- iv -
(e) data storage and the project information system in Cipta
Karya are in need of improvement, to enable better
monitoring of projects and to internalize lessons from
project experience; and
(f)  the  project  experienced  relatively  few  procurement
difficulties. Problems that did occur concerned contracts
procured through the ICB process.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-lND)
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW
- Project Name    : Fifth Urban Development Project
- Loan Number      : 2408-IND
- RVP Unit         : East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
- Country          :  Indonesia
- Sector           : Urban
- Sub-sector       : Infrastructure
- Project Cities  : Surabaya, Surakarta, Semarang,
Udjung Pandang
- Loan Amount      :  $ 39.25 million
- Disbursement
Totals    :  $ 38.9 million
2. BACKGROUND
2.01    Indonesia's urban population was estimated at 33 million
in 1980. This represented 22% of the country's total population
of 147 million. In 1990, the urban population had grown to 55
million, or 31% of total population, and by the year 2000 it is
projected to reach 72 million, or 32% of total population. During
the 1970's urban population increased at about 4% per year or
almost double the 2.3% overall population growth rate, while in
the 1980s it increased at 5.4% per annum, and in the 1990s it is
expected to continue to grow to at least 5% per annum.
2.02    The four project cities - Surabaya, Semarang, Surakarta
and Udjung Pandang - are among the ten largest cities in
Indonesia, after Jakarta. With a combined population of about 4.5
million, they comprise about 29% of the total urban population in
the top ten cities.
2.03    The rationale for selecting the four above-named cities
was influenced by two major factors: (a) their importance as
centers of economic growth with large populations; and (b) the
need to expand the basic urban services programs, as recommended
under the Bank's Third Urban Development Project.
2.04    The magnitude of projected urban population growth
presents a major challenge in terms of employment and services in
Indonesia as a whole. Despite significant progress in the last
decade in improving access to urban services, urban areas
continue to be characterized by severe deficiencies in essential
infrastructure. The situation is particularly severe in the
"kampung" or informal settlement areas, the low-lying, densely
populated neighborhoods that house a large proportion of
Indonesia's urban population.
2.05    The Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) begun in Jakarta
in 1969 has now become a national program reaching more than 200



2
urban areas throughout the country. The concept involves the
provision of basic infrastructure - roads, footpaths, water
supply, sanitation and solid waste collection and drainage. The
policy framework for KIP, both as a physical and social program
was established early during REPELITA III when it was expanded to
include six standard components plus an option for schools and
health centers.
2.06    To ameliorate the infrastructure deficiencies of the
kampungs, the Government's urban programs have focussed on the
provision of basic services in these areas. Total investment by
all levels of government in urban services has averaged at about
Rp. 250 billion during each of the country's Five Year
Development Plans (REPELITAs), from 1979 (REPELITA III) to 1994
(estimated for REPELITA V).
2.07    In conjunction with the expansion of KIP, the GOI also
began to recognize that KIPs effectiveness was limited without
complementary improvements in the trunk or primary and secondary
drainage. Although the annual investment in drainage (Rp 18
billion), solid waste (Rp 13 billion) and human waste (Rp 4
billion) were relatively small during REPELITA III, given the
large backlog, it was the first GOI attempt to address the issue
on a national scale. During REPELITA IV, improved investment
programming techniques for urban infrastructure were devised,
with the Urban V project establishing the model for preparing
urban-wide city investments in KIP, a concept much broader than
the original. This effort became one of the key elements of the
1987 Urban Sector Policy Statement and is now a major feature of
the GOI REPELITA V programme. These techniques, summarized under
what is now known as the 'Integrated Urban Infrastructure
Development Programme (IUIDP)", requires that all new capital
investments in urban infrastructure be proposed within a
framework of appropriate local priorities, operations and
maintenance (O & M) commitments, local revenue mobilization and
cost recovery initiatives, and local institutional strengthening
in meeting local urban services needs, while rationalizing
demands for central grant.  and subsidies.
3. PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.01    Since 1974, the Bank has supported the Government's
programs of kampung improvement, water supply and sanitation
upgrading and low income sites and services housing by financing
four loans for urban development (Loans 1040-IND, 1336-IND, 1653-
IND and 1972-IND) amounting to $174.5 million, one loan for
sewerage and sanitation (Loan 2236-IND) for $ 22.4 million and
three loans for water supply (Loans 1049-IND, 1709-IND, 2275-
IND), for $80.6 million. These operations set the stage for a
unique operation financed by the Bank, the Urban Sector Loan
(2725-IND).



3
3.02     The PPAR for the First Urban Project (report #4620)
highlighted a number of deficiencies in the operation and
maintenance of certain facilities, the key difficulty being the
heavy involvement of the central government in the financing and
execution of the programs, and the overly centralized structure
which resulted in numerous inefficiencies. Also noted in the PPAR
was the low level of direct cost recovery for KIP under that
project. To address this issue the Bank supported improvements in
property tax collection under the Third Urban Development Project
(1653-IND), focussing specifically on assessment rates,
documentation, cadastral surveys and training of land assessors,
and today in all cities IPEDA tax targets are set. The issue was
further addressed under the Fourth Urban Development Project
(1972-IND), where existing tax and revenue structures in the six
project cities was studied and revisions in assessment and
collection proposed. This became the national MAPADA program,
which resulted in the reorganization, nation-wide, of all 302
local government finance offices.
3.03      The Third and Fourth Urban Development Projects were
also instrumental in clarifying sector operational issues,
demonstrating local capacities for management, involving the
Ministry of Home Affairs in the urban sector, proving the
willingness of secondary cities to undertake subsidiary
borrowing, and addressing municipal resource mobilization issues.
These were all key inputs to the policy dialogue between the GOI
and the Bank, and led to the 1986 Housing Policy Statement and
the 1987 Urban Sector Policy Statement, as well as the subsequent
Action Plans upon which the Bank's Urban and Housing Sector Loans
were based.
3.04     The PCR for the Third and Fourth Urban Development
Projects (June 1989) did, however, highlight a number of
difficulties, both at the project implementation and sectoral and
programming levels which were considered in the design of the
Fifth Urban Development Project. These included:
(a) The weak pre-qualifications process, which
classified contractors as to size and type of
eligible contract, and included a preference for
economically-weak contractors, creating substantial
barriers and/or disincentives to the development of
a strong, reliable local contractor capabilities;
(b) The difficulty KIP units, as non-structural
entities, had in attracting and retaining competent
professional staff;
(c) The limited training and experience of assigned
engineers and technicians to design and develop
appropriate drainage systems;
(d) The limited capabilities of documentation was
insufficient to assess the quality of works



4
undertaken in individual subprojects. There was a
weak system of preparation of "as-built" drawings as
well as other documents; and
(e) Problematic arrangements for the development and
operation of infrastructure to serve PERUMNAS
housing projects, which led to delays and loss of
revenue.
3.05    The most serious issues, however, which were identified
from previous projects impacted project sustainability. The Fifth
Urban Development Project made serious attempts to mitigate the
potential negative effects of problems identified under the Third
and Fourth projects, as follows:
(a) The issue of Operations and Maintenance (O&M). At
the completion of the Third and Fourth Urban
Projects, adequate 0 & M responsibility was still
not in pla_e for any significant set of project
facilities. The performance-oriented maintenance
management system (POMMS), which was designed as
part of the municipal management of the Fifth Urban
project was only partially successful because it did
not become as institutionalized as was anticipated.
However, it has resulted in the issuance of a
ministerial decree citing the Urban V project
cities, plus an additional four, as examples of
successful municipal management of projects. This
intitiative continues to be developed as a key
feature of more recent Bank operations (See Annex 1
for a full description of POMMS):
(b) The issue of Adequate Bank Supervision. Given
the innovative nature of Urban III and IV, the
dependence on previously untested institutions in
widely-scattered areas, and the untested GOI
capacities to adequately manage such operations, the
Borrower expected heavy Bank supervision. The Fifth
Urban project anticipated similar expectations and
for this reason introduced the concept of PMU
advisors. Unfortunately their performance was less
helpful than expected, and although conceptually
useful will require modification if it is to be used
again;
(c) The issue of Land Acquisition Management. This was
noted as being one of the main shortcomings of the
GOI, with difficulties ranging from public
complaints about unnecessary acquisitions of wide
rights-of-way to removal of officials for fund
misappropriation. In most KIP areas public
sanitation facilities were inaccessible due to a
combination of public unwillingness to have these
facilities near their homes and inadequate land



5
acquisition budgets to purchase available prime
locations. The National Land Agency was formed in
1988 to develop a capacity to provide leadership in
resolving such issues. However, to date this has
resulted in a minimal amount of improvement; and
(d) The issue of Processing Time for ICB Tendering.
Procurement delays of 6-18 months were quite common
under Urban III and IV, and longer in some extreme
cases. The process was improved by Executive Order
No.1/1988, which removed the National Secretariat
review. However, Ministerial Procurement Committees
reviews are now required and there is little
evidence of major improvement in the overall quality
or timing of procurement.
4. FOLLOW-ON INITIATIVES
4.01         Perhaps the most significant follow-on initiative
(after Urban V) was the Bank's Urban Sector Loan. It was the
culmination of many years of Bank involvement, beginning with
very specific project-oriented initiatives as found in Urban I,
and progressing slowly into areas of policy and sector work with
subsequent initiatives. The Fifth Urban Development Project
bridged the gap between the last of the project-specific loans
(Urban III and IV) and the Urban Sector Loan. The PCR for the
Urban Sector Loan (December, 1991) presents a revealing
evaluation of this progression, underlining some basic truths
which are useful to keep in mind when reviewing the Fifth Urban
Development Project. They are as follow:
(a) that policy and institutional reform is a gradual
process;
(b) institutional constraints ... appear to be most
binding on the ability of the sector to absorb an
appreciably higher level of investment expenditures
... the first order of business, therefore, must be
to expand the capability for project preparation, by
removing the institutional and policy constraints
which impede increased urban development;
(c) preparation and implementation capability must be
expanded, particularly at the local level. This is
an essential precondition for a meaningful and
sustainable development effort in the sector;
(d) continued attention must be focused on the longer-
term agenda of improving cost recovery and local
resource mobilization; and
(e) the key challenge in the financing area is to
mobilize more resources at the local level and to



6
utilize the available central government resources
more efficiently.
5. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Project Objectives
5.01    The project objectives, as set out in the Staff
Appraisal Report (# 4887-IND), were as follows:
(a) continued improvement of basic urban services in the
predominantly low-income neighborhoods or "kampungs'
of the four project cities, together with the
complementary provision of solid waste and drainage
infrastructure; and streamlining of project
implementation arrangements related to the delivery
of the above services;
(b) strengthening of the municipal administration in the
project cities, by improving financial planning,
budgeting and management, as well as operation and
maintenance of infrastructure; and
(c) augmenting the capacity for local resource
mobilization through improved collection of land tax
revenues and service charges for solid waste
collection.
B. Project Description
5.02    The project comprised three major physical and two
technical assistance components as follows;
(a) Kampung Improvement Program (KIP), including the
provision of basic infrastructure for roads,
footpaths, water supply, micro drainage, sanitation,
schools and health facilities in selected kampungs;
(b) Solid Waste Improvement Program (SWIP), consisting
of the expansion and/or improvement to citywide
solid waste collection, transfer/transport and
disposal facilities in the residential/market areas,
especially in the KIP areas;
(c) Drainage Improvement Program (DRIP), involving the
rehabilitation of the primary, secondary and
tertiary drainage network in Surabaya, Semarang and
Udjung Pandang, aimed at providing flood-relief in
the low-lying kampung and commercial areas; and the
establishment of a citywide operation and
maintenance drainage program;
(d) Municipal Management Improvement Programs, including
the development and implementation of programs and



7
training in each of the project cities in the areas
of (i) financial planning, budgeting, accounting and
management for key municipal agencies; (ii) improved
administration of operational and maintenance
programs for citywide infrastructure and cost
recovery for solid waste collection; and (iii)
assessment and revenue collection improvements for
land development taxes; and
(e) Technical Assistance, consisting of (i) project-
related engineering, management and advisory
services to the project implementing units at city
level, project management units at the provincial
level, and to Cipta Karya; and financial services
(lumpsum) for the auditing of project accounts; (ii)
strengthening of the project preparation capacity of
Cipta Karya; and (iii) preinvestment and feasibility
studies for future projects.
5.03    The KIP Program was designed along similar lines of
previous Bank projects (i.e. Urban III and IV). It involved the
provision of integrated basic urban services listed above, and
was based on (a) minimal social disruption to the residents
affected by the physical provisions; (b) community involvement in
planning, implementation and maintenance of facilities; (c) local
government execution of the project; and (d) emphasis on low-cost
standards which are replicable citywide.
5.04    The SWIP Program was aimed principally at operating and
managing improved solid waste collection, transport and disposal
systems that provide reliable service. Protection of public
health through the adoption of containerized garbage collection
and avoidance of open dumps were emphasized. The development
strategy consisted of (a) improved household and market garbage
collection methods, transfer stations, the acquisition and
maintenance of suitable vehicles and equipment ranging from
handcarts to large capacity trucks and the use of sanitary
landfill schemes for disposal; (b) improved cost recovery for the
commercial and residential areas and the introduction of improved
accounting systems in the city cleansing departments, with
special assistance provided under the municipal management
component of the project; and (c) the launching of public
awareness campaigns to publicize the goals of SWIP and the need
for public participation.
5.05    The DRIP Program was designed for implementation in all
project cities except for Surakarta, for which technical
assistance was provided to prepare a drainage master plan. The
specific goals were to (a) serve the immediate and near-term
needs for urban drainage improvements with priority accorded to
the flood-prone kampung areas; (b) establish an appropriate
operation and maintenance program for city-wide drainage in
collaboration with other government agencies involved; and



8
(c) strengthen the City Public Works Departments in the operation
and maintenance of the drainage facilities.
5.06     The Municipal Management Programs were intended to
foster urban institutional development to promote self-reliance
in the provision of urban services on a sustainable basis. Long
term studies were undertaken by PUOD and the Directorates General
of Domestic Monetary Affairs and Taxation (Ministry of Finance)
in coordination with local governments, with consultant
assistance. Focus was placed on three main areas for technical
assistance. These related to;
(a) financial planning, budgeting and management, which
consisted of: (i) establishment of 3-year rolling
programs: (ii) improved program planning between
BAPPEDA and the sectoral and financial accounting,
cost accounting and financial control systems; and
(iii) formulation of management information systems;
(b) infrastructure operation and maintenance management,
which complemented similar work on water supply and
other parallel projects, consisted of:
(i) preparation of an inventory of citywide
operational and maintenance needs, cost accounting
and resource planning; (ii) review of the services
departments' organization, staffing and budget;
(iii) establishment of management systems for
planning, programming, execution and
control of annual operational and
maintenance activities;
(iv) preparation of operational and maintenance
manuals for infrastructure and equipment; and (v)
improved cost recovery mechanisms of citywide solid
waste collection and implementation arrangements;
(c) land taxes assessment and administration, which
consisted of: (i) establishment of implementation
measures for improved assessment, collection and
administration of the property tax,(IPEDA); (ii)
training of IPEDA staff in cadastral surveying,
documentation and valuation; and (iii)
identification of new sources of land development
taxes. (PBB, the new national property tax law,
replaced IPEDA in 1985-86.)
5.07    The Technical Assistance Program was designed to: (a)
facilitate implementation of the project through the provision of
engineering, management and advisory services to the concerned
executing agencies; and (b) assist the government in the
preparation of pre-investment and feasibility studies in the
urban sector. The principal services included: (i) assistance to
the city level Project Implementation Units (PIUs) for project
execution; (ii) management assistance to the provincial Project



9
Management Units (PMUs) in the monitoring of project progress and
finance, supervision of project accounting systems and the
establishment of management information systems for the project;
(iii) advisory services to the Cipta Karya directorates on
project related matters; (iv) assistance to Cipta Karya's newly
established Directorate for program development (1984), to
strengthen its project preparation capacity in project
identification, preparation and appraisal; (v) assistance for
Surakarta drainage feasibility studies and sector related pre-
investment and urban
feasibility studies; and (vi) auditing services to project
executing agencies.
6. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
6.01    In the preparation of the Fifth Urban Development
Project, experience under Urban I, II, III and IV (Loans 1040-
IND, 1336-IND, 1653-IND, 1972-IND) were taken into consideration,
with specific attempts made to minimize those problems which have
been identified under previous implementation. In particular, the
project sought to address the following main issues identified in
previous Bank projects, and articulated in the PCR for Urban III
and Urban IV (paras 3.04, 3.05):
(a) The issue of Operations and Maintenance was
recognized as one requiring serious attention. For
this reason the project included an 0 & X study
which ran parallel to project implementation with a
view to completion and implementation within the
lifetime of the project (see Annex 1 for more on
POMMS);
(b) The issue of supervision was addressed through the
provision of a PMU in each of the project cities,
and the formation of a PIU close to the project site
creating a more appropriate enabling environment for
project implementation, without extensive use of
external consultants and heavy supervision input
from the Bank. This also allowed for the development
of adequate project documentation to asses the
quality of works undertaken. The early recruitment
of consultants and reasonable preparation of design
far enough in advance of loan effectiveness was also
advanced in order to ensure rapid implementation;
(c) In order to deal effectively and in a timely manner
with procurement issues, the Bank committed
resources at the resident mission to deal with
procurement issues under Bank control as quickly as
possible, ensuring timely removal of sources of
serious delay.
6.02    The only issue which was not addressed directly and
systematically was that relating to land acquisition management.



10
Assurances were received form the GOI during project preparation
that all efforts at facilitation of the process would be
carried out so as to minimize problems. Issues relating to land
acquisition were forwarded to the Land Acquisition Steering
Committee which did expedite land acquisition and resolve issues
in a timely manner.
6.03    The project was innovative in that it coupled physical
improvement measures with a strengthening of the municipal and
provincial authorities. The roles and responsibilities of the
various players was well defined, with a PMU and PIU established
in each of the project cities to cope more directly with issues
and problems as they arose. To ensure that the PIU was as
responsive as possible to needs, staff was drawn from the
Kotamadya public works offices, with project preparation
including an implementation manual for each project city in
Bahasa Indonesia. This greatly improved local understanding and
facilitated implementation.
7. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
7.01    Generally , project start-up was satisfactory, with only
a slight delay (3 months) in the formation of the PIU and the
appointment of the project manager, and the appointment of detail
design consultants for the SWIP and DRIP components. Staffing of
the PIU and PMU was completed on schedule, and the process of
land acquisition was dealt with in a timely manner.
7.02    There were some significant revisions which had to be
made to planned works and services under the project, as well as
some small revisions in the SWIP and DRIP components due to field
conditions. The main issue which evolved concerned the
devaluation of the rupiah from USS 1=Rp 1,000 at appraisal to
US$ 1= Rp 1,890 at closing on June 30, 1991 including a 40%
devaluation in 1986. This resulted in an extension of works and
consultant services to accommodate the funds. This was possible
with minimum disruption to the project because: a) the cities had
already prepared a priorized list of kampungs for future works,
enabling expansion of project scope to take place quickly; b)
when the devaluation occurred, the Central Project Management
Office (CPMO) became the Bank's intermediary in appraisal of the
expansion proposals; and c) the expanded program was implemented
successfully within the time-frame allocated for the original
project, further underlining minimal capacity constraints at the
local government level.
A. Procurement
7.03    All 713 civil works contracts were procured under LCB
procedures and awarded to locally based suppliers. Although they
caused no delay, they did significantly increase the workload of
the PMU/PIU and the consultants, which had anticipated larger
packaging. The 52 contracts associated with project studies and
technical assistance were procured both locally and



11
internationally. No significant problems arose relating to these
contracts.
7.04    There were some minor delays in procurement under ICB.
However, in anticipation of the problem some mitigating features
were included in project design. These included: (a) ensuring
that all bid documents were ready before or just after loan
signing; (b) proceeding to tender based on draft quantities;
(c) early submission of the ICB document to the Bank for
approval; and (d)    use of national products as far as possible.
7.05    Nonetheless, there still remained three specific aspects
of the GOI procurement regulations which consistently created
problems during implementation, and which had been identified as
problems in previous Bank projects (para 3.04), and include the
following:
(a) the very weak pre-qualification process, with
loosely defined criteria and weak administration of
the system in every jurisdiction created substantial
barriers and even disincentives to the development
of strong, reliable local contractor capabilities
and placed extraordinary burdens on the construction
supervisors and consultants to maintain quality
standards with a very weak group of contractors;
(b) the requirement to give preference, in small civil
works tenders, to contractors from the "economically
weak social groups" limited the pool of capable
contractors in each city; and
(c) the option to award contracts to any of the three
lowest qualified bidders which resulted in the
disqualification of some low bids; this was done
with little or no justification.
7.06    The issue concerning long periods between advertisement
and award of contract in Indonesia is one which was addressed
under the Public Works Manpower Development Project (Loan 2258-
IND) and the Institutional and Development Training Project (Loan
3211-IND). In the former a considerable review of procedures was
undertaken culminating in a series of GOI ministerial directives,
and in the latter the Ministry of Public Works is seeking to
further improve procurement efficiency. Although actual progress
is not yet in sight, the Public Works Manpower Development
Project is likely to produce encouraging results.
B. Disbursement
7.07    Actual disbursement for the first four years of the loan
exceeded those estimated at appraisal which were already advanced



12
staffing of the organizations involved, land acquisition and
financial arrangements. The main reason for the success is that
the GOI and the local governments were strongly committed to
rapid implementation, with implementation itself carried out
almost exclusively by the local governments.
8. PROJECT RESULTS
8.01    All of the principal objectives of the project were
achieved and physical infrastructure targets exceeded due to the
agreed re-investment of additional Rupiah created as a result of
the devaluation. In terms of reaching certain sectoral
objectives, the project made some notable headway, including;
(a) a clear demonstration of the feasibility of the GOI policy to
implement integrated programming on a national scale, at least
for major urban areas; (b) the local government capacities to
design and manage such operations were largely proven, although
it is recognized that additional strengthening of capabilities is
required; (c) experience gained provided much of the framework
for the subsequent development of the IUIDP approach, and
prepared the ground for the Bank's Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND);
(d) a clear basis was created for a number of subsequent
projects, including JUDP III (Loan 3246-IND), the East Java-Bali
UDP (Loan 3304-IND), and the Sulawesi-Irian Jaya (Loan 3340-IND).
8.02    The major impacts of the project were as followst
(a) There was a substantial improvement to the living
environment of more than 760,000 kampung residents
through, (i) improved access to urban services,(ii)
better access to economic opportunities, and (iii)
improvement in public health;
(b) Some major sector operational issues were clarified,
including a demonstration of local capability for
management, and the importance of municipal resource
mobilization; and
(c) Preparation of the Performance-Oriented Maintenance
Management (POMM) System, which was designed as a
management tool specifically developed to assist
municipal governments to manage operation and
maintenance activities efficiently and effectively,
under Urban V. Although not fully institutionalized,
this system has become the blueprint for addressing
O and M issues in a number of cities in Indonesia
beyond the Urban V project cities. (see Annex 1 in
Part III for a more detailed description of the POMM
system and its achievements).
C. Economic Analysis
8.03    The estimated weighted average economic rates of return
for the Urban V KIP components were 29% at appraisal and 35% at



13
re-evaluation, and for the DRIP component 18% and 25%,
respectively. The combined estimate at appraisal was 24%, and at
re-evaluation it was 30%.
Appraisal        Re-Evaluated
Estimate         Estimate
KIP    DRIP      KIP     DRIP
_____________________________
Surabaya         35%     15       49       20
Semarang         17%     17       23       27
Surakarta        15%     N/A       22      24
Udjung Pandang   41%     23        46      30
Average    29%     18        35%     25
_____________________________
9. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
9.01        As noted previously, the Urban V project was a
transitional project, which began with concepts articulated in
Urban III Urban IV, and culminated in the Urban Sector Loan. The
long term objective had been to achieve a consensus between the
GOI and the Bank for establishing the current sector action
program, one which focusses heavily on the development of GOI
intermediary capacity, devolution of responsibilities for local
urban development to the local municipalities, and moving the
Bank from a project specific agenda to a more sectoral
programmatic approach for investments.
J.02    The main issues regarding sustainability of project
benefits concern:
(a) decentralization of investment activities to the
municipalities: although successful in the project,
due to Bank involvement and guidance, there still
remains a serious need to strengthen management,
technical manpower and operational system
capabilities at the municipal level in order to
efficiently implement investment programs in urban
infrastructure locally, with a minimum of central
government interference;
(b) coordination of activities: the project demonstrated
the usefulness of coordination, specifically between
the various governmental levels and departments,
including central agencies and ministries, through
the provincial organizations to the municipal level.
This was particularly important in the planning and
programming of urban infrastructure services
throughout the project areas. This was an
achievement which was somewhat hard fought, and will
need encouragement to continue, drawing on the
results of the project success to do so. Immediate
results of this success however are apparent in the



14
1987 Urban Sector Policy Statement and in the Bank's
own Urban Sector Loan, as well as subsequent
operations including the East Java and Sulawesi-
Irian Jaya projects, which built on the provincial
intermediation mechanism. Subsidiary loan
arrangements in Udjung Pandang also laid the
groundwork for the initiative, under the Urban
Sector Loan, to institute a nation-wide functional
classification of infrastructure;
(c) improved local resource mobilization: to support
greater decentralization of responsibilities,
develop a stronger local government with less
reliance on the central authority, specifically in
order to self-finance investments in the development
of local services, but also in order to ensure
appropriate financing for the operation and
maintenance of these investments, without dependence
on the central authorities for adequate budgetary
transfers was one of the aims of the project. The
fact that the project began to look more closely at
local revenues and the need to strengthen local
resource bases was an important step toward greater
decentralization of central responsibilities. This
is still an issue, however, which has not been fully
resolved, and will require close attention in future
interventions; and
(d) operations and maintenance: clearly the key issue
regarding the sustainability of benefits, not only
of this project but also of other urban investments
is 0 & M. Preparation documents for Urban V
attempted to address the issues of clear assignment
of facility responsibility ownership and 0 & M
responsibility and, the provision of sufficient
resources in terms of both funds and manpower in
order to fulfil 0 & M needs. The former was
addressed through project design and the latter
through POMMS (para. 3.05). The POMM system was
further refined under the Urban Sector Loan which
developed a simplified version of POMMS in response
to the Urban V concerns. These refined versions are
being implemented in both the East Java/Bali and
Sulawesi-Irian Jaya projects. Future work to
consider is the development of a method for
systematic identification and priorization of 0 & M
needs.
10. BANK PERFORMANCE
10.01   The strategic significance of the decision to
aggressively expand urban infrastructure development as a
national priority was a major achievement of the Bank-GOI
dialogue. The agreement to investment in Surabaya, Semarang,



15
Surakarta and Udjung Pandang was in part a test of the decision
to decentralize the responsibility for infrastructure
investments. The results achieved and the sustainability of the
project, overall, have had a major impact on the decision to
continue this method for future urban investments. The focus of
the discussion in this section is to concentrate on the specific
successes and perceived shortcomings of the Bank performance
during implementation of the project and to outline some of those
lessons learned which are specifically applicable to the Bank.
These are summarized below.
Successes
10.2    The Bank acted responsively and quickly in three
specific set of circumstances concerning project implementation:
(a) Bank support of GOI project preparation, which
entailed almost exclusive use of local consultants;
(b) Significant resources were committed to resolving
procurement, disbursement and related operational
issues identified by the supervision missions; also
the resident mission was strengthened by adding a
resident engineer to focus on procurement and
monitoring problems; and
(c) The Bank's flexibility in fund re-allocation greatly
eased budget constraints and facilitated project
implementation.
Shortcomings
10.3    There were a number of areas where project preparedness
could have been better, resulting in some weaknesses which the
Bank was slow to address. Specifically these include:
(a) Delays from appraisal to effectiveness were not only
the result of the inadequacies of the GOI tendering
and procurement process, as noted in the Urban III
and IV PCR, but also due to the need to clarify and
negotiate a number of subsidiary lending agreements
within GOI which took additional time; and
(b) Limited supervision, due mainly to the individual
nature of each of the components, complexity of the
project overall, and scattered location of the
participating urban areas. Although the Bank had
attempted to divest some of its supervision
responsibilities to the local entities, through the
creation of PIUs, and a PMU, most of the local staff
employed in these centers had limited experience in
any similar initiative, and the technicians chosen
lacked adequate knowledge and training. PMU advisors
were contracted to assist in supervision, however



16
they were less useful than expected. The Bank did
conduct supervision missions (14 in total),
averaging 2 per year. On paper the length of each
mission and the number of missions per year suggests
that supervision should have been adequate. However,
on closer examination it becomes apparent that
these missions were mounted to include supervision
of as many as 4 projects at a time and often
included project preparation activities. This
resulted in a net supervision time on Urban V of
about 4 - 5 days per visit. It is commendable, as a
result, that the project had been so well designed
that serious difficulties were few and far between.
Lessons Learned
10.04   As stated previously the project was a success in terms
of achievement of physical targets and contribution to dialogue.
A number of difficulties and irritants did manifest themselves,
but for the most part none arose that could not be easily
addressed. The project in effect became the testing ground for
the resolution of problems identified in the Urban III and IV
loans and in the Urban Sector Loan. Nonetheless, the Bank can
draw a number of lessons from participation in this activity.
These include:
(a) project preparation should be given adequate time,
and be packaged with selective detailing, tracking
and scheduling, to avoid delays in start up and
allow for a minimum Bank supervision; also, there
should be a careful examination of previous project
experiences to minimize the recurrence of similar
problems and to deal with substantive implementation
issues more appropriately;
(b) during project supervision, more attention should be
given to defining the role, activities and
performance of consultants, especially in cases
where consultant input is high;
(c) project proposals, where substantial urban
investments are required, should be analyzed, at
appraisal, both in economic and financial viability
terms, this would assist the government in focussing
on cost recovery and resource mobilization.
11. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
11.01   Performance by GOI agencies at all levels was generally
acceptable, with municipal governments and project units of DGHS
demonstrating somewhat better than expected capacities, with key
central agencies of DGHS taking a very proactive role in
coordinating overall project implementation. As with Bank,



17
Borrower performance realized a number of successes as well as
some shortcomings, both of which are articulated below:
Successes
(a) Generally Local Government performance was quite
good, with the exception of Udjung Pandang, which
experienced major changes in staff between Urban III
and Urban V but nonetheless performed adequately;
(b) Despite some difficult implementation conditions
(budget constraints, shortages of qualified staff),
the pro1ect was effectively managed. DGHS management
and documentation capacities appeared to be rather
weak at the outset of project implementation, but
the GOI acted quickly to form Central Project
Management and Finance Offices (CPMO and CPFO) in
the DGHS Directorate of Program
Development as part of the Urban V management and
monitoring program. Apart from achieving its
physical targets, it also acted as a vehicle for
implementing the GOI policy of decentralization of
DGHS responsibilities;
(c) Compliance with the covenants was generally
satisfactory; and
(d) Communications among key GOI agencies has
traditionally been a major problem, and it was in
the early stages of project implementation. However,
the ultimate cooperation and coordination between
the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Home Affairs
and the basic technical responsibilities of the MPW-
DGHS were catalytic in developing the dialogue which
led to the 1987 Urban Sector Policy Statement, and
in turn to the Bank's Urban Sector Loan.
Shortcomings
(a) As has been articulated in the PCRs for Urban III
and Urban IV, land acquisition management under
Urban V was problematic. There were public
complaints about unnecessary acquisitions of wide
right-of-way, and inaccessibility of some public
facilities (MCKs). This was due in part to a
combination of public unwillingness to have
sanitation facilities near their homes and
inadequate land acquisition budgets to purchase
available prime locations;
(b) Processing time for ICB tendering continued to be a
serious problem. Procurement delays of 6-18 months
were experienced but had minimal impact on overall
performance; and



18
(c) The objectives of the PMU program were not fully
achieved. It began late, the advisors were not
adequately experienced, it duplicated already
established monitoring parameters, and was too
complex to be widely and easily understood. Although
large amounts of data were collected, their limited
comparability has considerably reduced the overall
usefulness of the exercise.
12. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
12.01   Relationships between the Bank and key GOI agencies,
particularly MPW units, MOF and MXA were adequate throughout the
course of the project. The dialogue generated during the project
regarding urban programs and implementation arrangements formed a
major input to future policy-based operations. However, the
Bank's reliance on GOI central government agencies to perform
intermediation functions with project local governments was not
entirely satisfactory. There was frequently inadequate
communication with DGHS and other central GOI agencies with
respect to coordination of implementation or policy issues
concerning the project. Current IUIDP preparations are attempting
to establish the intermediation functions largely at the
provincial level to overcome some of these difficulties, but any
such efforts will still require the strengthening of central
program management and guidance capacities in DGHS and MHA.
13. CONSULTING SERVICES
13.01   Consultants played a prominent role in all aspects of
project implementation. The GOI insistence that Urban V be
assisted by local consultants with little or no expatriate
support, except as PMU advisors, generally worked well for
routine operations, but became problematic with respect to
solving larger problems (i.e. what was to be done as a result of
the government's devaluation of the rupiah). For consultants to
have been more effective, they would have needed to be involved
more fully in actual implementation.
13.02   The resultant experience in this project has led to the
following findings in consultant use in Indonesia.
(a) consultant selection continues to be a problem, with
no strict criteria or guidelines for selection; and
(b) Overall the quality of the technical assistance and
institutional development support was needed in
order to achieve project objectives. The GOI has
indicated that it may have been more useful to them
to have had "direct staff support" rather than pure
traditional technical assistance.



19
14. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION and DATA
14.01   Records and data maintenance by GOI were generally
adequate and easily accessible to those requiring it. However,
there remained a number of deficiencies, previously identified by
the Bank and GOI, for which corrective actions have been/ or need
to be undertaken. These include:
(a) increased capacity of the Central Project Management
Office and Central Project Finance Office units
within DGHS, which are required to maintain complete
monitoring records of Bank projects and programs
(including other donor projects); and
(b) DGHS committment to maintain a special cell of
professional and support staff to compile project
completion documentation for all subsequent projects
as each contract/component is finalized. This cell
is to issue guidance and review the final/completion
reports for all project activities.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
PART II: BORROWER'S EVALUATION
A. Main Findings and Lessons Learned
1. The project further demonstrated the appropriateness of the
KIP approach and its replicability.
(a) Integrated multi-sectoral improvements designed to basic
functional standards were successful in creating a
significant impact and benefit over a short period at a
low cost;
(b) The alleviation of unhygienic living conditions had a
major impact on public health, and provided an economic
stimulus by improving services and promoting, through
better hygiene/health, access and education. The total
number of beneficiaries amounted to over one million
people; and
(c) The obvious benefits provided by the improved
infrastructure through KIP resulted in renewed
enthusiasm of such projects, and has led to increased
demands for further works. It has also motivated the
communities to provide more for themselves.
2. The KIP Proiect Implementation Unit concept was successful
in achieving the physical aims of the project, but neglected
to support longer term strengthening of established local
government departments.
(a) KIP units planned and implemented the capital works
programs in a generally successful manner. However,
established delivery agencies saw their power and
influence eroded while they considered themselves often
better equipped and staffed to implement such programs.
Existing agencies are now charged with the operation and
maintenance of project facilities, although they are
generally in no better position to do so than
previously. Meanwhile the future role of many of the
established KIP units remains unclear, and they in fact
appear to be "dying"; and
(b) In the future, the capacity of institutions should be
evaluated more thoroughly when formulating project



21
design, to determine whether, with appropriate
strengthening, they would be capable of implementing the
project without the introduction of a KIP Unit. In the
cases where KIP Units are considered advisable, they
should be given departmental status with wider
responsibilities concerning all kampung and/or housing
related matters.
3. Sanitation probably constitutes the most difficult problem
in the kampungs. While communal facilities can be effective
(at least in the short to medium term), they require good
management, appropriate access and a reliable water supply
to realize potential benefits. More efficient solutions
still need to be identified for the longer term.
(a) Some of the MCKs that have operated efficiently have
added to the community's consciousness concerning the
importance of good sanitation for health care, and have
indicated the need to install in their own homes; and
(b) a high proportion of MCKs built in the project areas are
not operating effectively. The predominant reasons
include: poor management which in turn leads to
inadequate maintenance; the lack of a reasonable water
supply; and poor facility location. Unless these issues
are addressed appropriately, investment in MCKs in
questionable.
4. Data storage and the project information system in Cipta
Karya are in need of improvement, to enable better
monitoring of projects and to learn lessons from project
experiences.
(a) at the central level Cipta Karya has recently
established a CPMO and CPFO as well as a computer center
and project information system;
(b) data, reports and other documents relating to projects
prior to Urban IV are, however, unavailable in any of
these offices. They are an unfortunate loss, as they
would have been very useful in the preparation of
current strategies and guidelines for KIP, other
sectors, as well as background for the preparation of
IUIDPs; and
(c) it has been suggested that Cipta Karya identify, at the
outset, which agency should be responsible for the
storage of which data, and then prepare action plans to
install appropriate data storage and information systems
in the respective agency(ies).
5. The project experienced relatively few procurement
difficulties, and as with past projects, particularly the
KIP component, local procedures were generally quick,



22
enabling the KIP annual cycle to be followed. Problems that
did occur concerned contracts procured through the ICB
process.
(a) generally LCB procedures were followed efficiently.
However, much time and effort is often necessary to
follow the guidelines; and
(b) Indonesian civil engineering contractors have developed
rapidly through the last decade or so, making it
difficult for foreign contractors to compete. Thus for
civil engineering works in multi-sectoral (urban)
projects, LCB procedures would appear to be the most
efficient method of procurement.
B. Summary of Bank Role and Performance
2.01    Bank personnel were recognized as professional in all
respects. While mission members were always highly qualified in
their respective fields, there were occasions when the
composition of supervision missions was not appropriate to
address the kinds of implementation problems which occurred, and
was rather weak in the early stages of project implementation,
particularly in Surabaya and Udjung Pandang.
2.02    There appeared to be some difficulty with implementation
of the Udjung Pandang component of the project where: the scope
and scheduling of the solid waste management program was
unrealistic; there was little focus on cost recovery
opportunities, but rather an emphasis on physical improvements.
2.03    Two important areas where the Bank could have adopted a
firmer position included: cost recovery, where a greater focus on
the IPEDA tax system and its constraints and opportunities would
have been helpful; and, on the establishment of appropriate and
functional operation and maintenance (O & M) arrangements for
facilities provided under the project, which needed more tangible
Bank support. Although the development of the POMM system was an
attempt to address the issues of 0 & M, it was not fully
institutionalized.
2.04    The Bank's support of essentially local government
programs, and as a result the GOI's decentralization efforts, as
well as dealing with the issue of devaluation, was very much
appreciated.
C. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
3.01    The performance of the participating institutions in
overall project planning was quite good, as was the
implementation of civil works, procurement of equipment and
provision of consultant services.



23
3.02    However, it was difficult to effectively organize each
of the PIUs. Even after the delineation of responsibilities
between the PMU and PIUs, it was difficult to determine what were
the clear lines of authority in project management, with many
problems arising in the coordination of the various project
components.



'-I
LOA.N                 LOA                 ..U.P.S_                                 DATE OF    STATUS                       COLIMENTS                   
NUMBR   ___    TL  ___ ________________.__  APPROVAL    ____ _
165 -IND       Urban III Develop..est    - Providing camatial wrvimv to              01116/79    Conmpleied  - This lwojo cluarly Jcuosskmted
ProeAt                     low icorn.e nighborboodJ (KIP) in                       O3I3II87    the  siblity of anJ supportedJOI              .
Jakana, Suabaym. Ujuag PiaJaig.                                     policy to Implement KIP. SWIP aJ                -      .
&-maraa. SuraLaits a J im-paoviag                                   DRIP ou a motional sak.                      0      O
general public lhealkh eh -is                                      - Local governetnt capacitivs to               n
SWIP. DRIP. vApport for community                                   conmeve a    na"ge mch   taisomia            U           h  
healgh m_vio                                                        were barecly prove.                                                     t%i
1972-IND       Urban IV Devlopment       - Extending KIP. SWIP, DRIP, in six         04/21/JI    Complt    - This iwoic * creat  a clear basis
Projet                     provincial capital oitiou                               OW2238       for she aubaiquwat UFba.. V h ojt.           r2
(Palembang, Padsnj. Bsoarmamin, ma
Sawariada. Poatienak. Denpasar)
and houaiag Sit.l in Jambi.
Seaaran  and YogyAwtb ..O.
_  rengthosang the maaenmono,
abilities of HTNh
- mappig of 100 cities.
____._.________________ _____                                                                                                                              0   
2U16-lN4D      Ufban Sector loam         - Supporting 001 entire urban               05/27137    Complted   - This projct proviecJ aucwh ol th
iaiarsoactae expenJiture program           .           Il)I3/I9I    fiuncwsk tor Jevelopansas 1 ol c                    Z
aid aaisstias ie inuitutional                                       IUIDI'P Aoc 
reform for  ,centralization.



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 2: A. Prolect Timetable
TEM|   DATE                               DATE          DATE
' PLANNED        REVISED   I ACrUAL
(ExgcuLive Projca Surmmary)
-  Preiparation
App=Lis  Mimon                                                       04/12/84
Loan/Cr-dit NegoitaLions                                               04184
xi Approvi                                                      |05/08/84
-  LMoiCredit Sig"muum                                           -       06/20/84
-  Loan/Creiit Effeccivas                   09/24/84       10/25/84      O124/85
-  Loan/Credit Closing                      12/03/90      06/30/91       06/30/91
-  Loasn/Crdit Completion                   03/31/91      09/30/91!



-  26  -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 2: B. Summary of Bank Missions
STAGE OF              SS1ON         NUMBER OF        DAYSIN              X 
PROJECT CYCLE   i  MONTH I YEAR I    PERSONS            FIELD            ACTrvITMES
Prepu uon                   3/72             N / A          NfA       Proje Detion
j 1doificaion         i       9/82             N/A            N/A   Iissuesldeufison
Appi inl                    6/83             N/A            N/A       Appruisi
PosAppru.1                  2f84      I       N/A           N/A       PTojetA Amng=c   s
Supervision                 9/84               3              7        itial Supervion
Suervision          i       3/85               3              3       ProgressReview
Supxvision                  10/85              3              7       Progress Review
Suerison                    3/86               3              7       Progress Revew
Supwevison                  10/86              3              7       Progres Review
3uptrvsison                 3/87               2              7       Progrs Review
Suprvision          I       2/88               3              7       Progress Review
Superson                    6/88               3              7       ProgressReview
Supuvnnon1                  4/89               2              5       Progre  Review
Supervsion                  7/89               2              5       Progres Rcview
Supeavieon                  1/90               2       i      3       Progrec Review
Supervision                 4/90               2              3       Progrs Review
I Supersion                   11/90             2              3        Progres Review
Supemrviion                 6/91               2              3       Fikl Progre  Review
PCR PrepLmuon               -/91               -             _
PCR Nprmuon                 -/91               _
PCR Prepusuion              -491               _              _



- 27 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
in_USS miion
FISCAL               ANNUAL          I CUMMULATIVE   PERCENTAGEI
YEAR             SAR   ACTUAL   SAR   ACTUAL                      (%)
84-8S              0.90        4.41        0.90       4.41         490.00
85-86              3.20        4.75        4.10 1     9.16         223.41
86-87      1       6.801       8.90       10.901    18.06           165.69
87-88      1       9.80        7.20       20.70      25.26          122.03
88-89              10.80!      4.95       31.50 1    30.21          95.90
89-90               7.75       5.41       39.25      35.62          90.75
90-91              0.00        3.27        0.00      38.89          99.06
TOTAL              39.25       38.89      107.35     161.61        1,286.87



LOAN                                  PROJECT COMPONENT                                            T o T A                       X.
3.          CATEGORY              ALLOCATED                LIP             |          WIP                        DRIP             _
(BUDGET)        SAR        ACTUAL          SA _         ACTUAL        SAR         ACTUAL         SA R        ACTUAL          P
CIVIL WORKS for the project     14.30,a000    8.642.226    12.0317.76      96.533        996.566     4869.221     9.183431    1484.1.000   22.220.03*
(a) Sem9car                      4,400,0n0     2.000,000    2.721.091      207,000       203,218     2,193.000    3.M.99160     4.400,non    6,920,211  I
(b) Swabaya                      6,400,000     4.106,292    1,150,639      495 s         ss.932      1 .34.121    2.3,ss391     6.400,00J(   8.665,062       .
(a) Sw ,kmna                     1.000,o00      693.340     1.627,617       304.660      192,451            0             0     8.000,000    8,820.095       >     O
(d) Ujuaa Paid8                  2.700.000     8..40.194    2,138,337        17,30        41.41        842.098    2,629,1 80    2,74,1).t)   4.314.712       .            -
CIVIL WOQXS fa r   ojaj.         2.200A0       I.35.270       26.2.4             0             0        "64.730     347,005    2,20t0.O0   *33.2s9 o
of th popct oanmd CIA                                                                                                                                                     0 O             .)
undw cowba sisd  eor                                                                                                                                         n
aA.rApri I , 1936b. *                                                                                                                                              ob 
1.4w  ha .arh 31J1.9 7.                                                                                                                                                   >
(a) Sam us"                      I.OO1.0        353.000       165.031            0             0       3435000      231.368     1,100.00       396,449             0
C.) SW obeys                       100.000            0             0            0             0       800.000          973       8U0tAo,          975
(a) 9arakad                        300.000      300,00)       121.171            0             0            0             0       34)000       121.173
(dl Ups.gpaobob P.                 1000         Uo0.270             0            0             0        289,710     314,639       700  0.000   314.659 
2   EQUIPMENTS & VEHICLES            7,000.000            0             0     4.813.02     4.097,305     2.43.961     2.707.636     7.000.00o    6,u34,941
(a) s_virsa                      1.690.330            0            0      U1.12.,30    18067.569        78,5000   1o009.644     1.6910.$30   2.077.213
(b)&rbsys                        3.343.000            0             0     2.31 4.46"   2.131.%96     1.210.334    1,.177,613    1.543,00     1.38,.249              o
(a) srakaert                       349.440            0             0      349.440       182.251            0             n       349.44i)     152.251              Co
(4) Up..5 Pa.J.h                 1.683.030            0             0 o     3 1965       71S.539     8,015.434      120.319     8,613.010    1.234,228              Z
I   CONSULTANT SERVICES              3.000.000            0             0.                                                          4  0.00       .936,311, 
4   PEE                                 97. o      0                    0                                                              97,830       97,830
J   UNALLOCATTED                     7,412,120                          0            0             0            0             0     7.412,120            0
T 0 T A L              39.250.000     9.91.496    12,124.040     3.144.333     5.096.171    8,.77.919    12.431.072    39.251,000    33.310.000



________________    _________________                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in  us$
LOCAL                   FOREION                   TOTAL                    FOREIGN                   L.OCAL-
COMPONLNT                         LOCAL              __ __ __ _                      T(__ _)                                             / (%) _
SAR       ACTUAL          AR       ACTUAL         SAl        ACTUAL         SAR       ACTUAL         8Ak        AClTUA-L
K I P                     12.969      24.490        6.680            0      19.649       12.303           34           0           66          inn        w
S WI p                      IA4W        6.998        4.211            0        1.741       1,084           74                       2 26        IOU
DRIP                      11.829       18.11)        6,569         763       18.191       12,103           33           6           63           94
UuwigipaI hIsag.m                  1.256        1.235         900        1.532        1.156       2.1767          42          531           3           41
T.slio.d Aaaistams                2.478        3,061       1.200        3,172        3.678       4.903           S3           44          67           56         0
TOTAL BASE COST                  50.026       33.599       19,40)        5.467      49.426       37.162           39          12           61           1518
Physiaastismoia.                   1.086            -         134            -        1.620           0           33            -          67            -
Prioe s1i.gemois                 8,213            -        1.066           -       13.219           0           38            -           62           -                B
0
TOTALPROJECTCOST                   39.325       53.899       23.000       3,467       64.32$       37.i62         110           12          190           33
Boak From t-Bdloe                     -            -           98          96           92           96         300         1t0             -
TOTAL
FINANCINGi RBQUIRBD                39,51        553.299     25,098        5,36)       64.423      37,260          210          112         190           It



- 30 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 5:   Amendment  of Loan Allocation
in uss
LOAN         AMENDMENT/          AMENDMENT/             ACTUAL
No.                               I CATEOORT  AOREE T   REALLOCATION I   REALLOCATION U   CONTRACTED
1_____________________   jUNE, J ag9  I  MAY. 2 196e                       JANUARY. 7 1991   AJVE S0 199
II Ct VIL WORKS for tW   p           16.7X0.00D           14.500.S00 O         22.394.130 t      22D2.063
' (a) So og                        5.5000.0             4.4.0OD j7.1J0.366                    6.92D.211
I !b)                 !6.500.C0                     0       6.4C0.000            9.033.439 i      3.665.062
(a) Su^Nb                           1.300.000           L.0.000 I            1.770.496        1.13D.096
(d) upu. . .aUg                     3.400.000 t         2.700.000I           4.900.329 I      4.814.711.
C3Vl WORWKS fI      d th t                              2.200.0001             770.353          8 33.259;
pwt A sa C of the prpi
mipttdttt        April 1,                                                              . c
j196 buem tithaa
Mnb31.1957.
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
(a) Smmq                                                1.100.OD               590)1 i          396.o49
(b) IC0b.u                                                 10D.jO                     0j             973i
I C) &   u  M)300.00                                                           178.352 1        121.173
(d) U,ft P _daq                                           700.00                     0          314.659 I
2 ' EQUINTS & VEHICLES                7.000.000            7.000.000            61720D1          6.tO4.941 1
(2) S_otm               |1.6901.530                                                      L .077.213 I
Zb) 311rol-u                |3.345.000                                                        S.311.2491
f.i Cimkwa                        i349.440                                                      182.2511
Cd) Ug Puadm5                                           1.615.030                             1.234.22  I
3 | CONSULTANT SERVICES               3.00.C00             3.000.000            9.000.o00'       8.933.371
4jFEE                                    97.80               97.3D0                97.U30           97.0 i
5 I UNALLOCATTD                       7.2.130              7.45.13D                    0                0I
l   T 0 T A L       |     t9.W.030            39.250.000  3           .934.3631 3j .M.000



- 31 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-INDI
Table 6: Loan Covenant Compliance
R,cofc Ca  Toazgt dam (if any)  CuIrrmi
I   Brirf Domtio of Cavnw            Lm    I for Coe;f~           a_ |I|             RaHux
Aoqw,in of land for omnsruuxa        3.45            - _zpa d  Ca  KAzyi  and PUODtognior tka
xopmn of proj> fmciitim                                                  p ogm of the city-Qbad lad
LAnd aqummm dahys aIp mi
I                                                 and fo  s _    of DRIP d KU
*_ Mmc of tbe
l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~F p                                rac vmm  hough
!ah. -         in dedp or
I2loa. of ams.
M n*ip  F3m  Adnmirdom
en,d Manmaem Rdacd
Sbmn  otho oank of tinb resl of   3.0(   Sop 30. 1965 or    ooind  Sindy aifi     inFabnalwy19
On sdid vaseam ro y stody and        and    other agred due              and tcm bvn  dam in
wmzadxm of tim apd pro            i    3.08 (b)
tprojul atm.
ISub   nO tio daBk of tihe rots of  3.09 (a)  Jil 31, 1936 or    Saidaty Tb. ruab of audy wa suih-ul to
tha o   m d   ni--  study ad    and  t             agtnd date            ti ln   in Lis Mh 1988.
f     zand prp.'m of  3.09 (b)
a fivyir bdiy p              o
A!r-01 193'fol ar oi nand
Saetmoryopmdfand                     4.04                     Not-                      _                ;
_ amm~ of p-*S f ;tiZ
1 tm m tm oam          of both lacl  4.03    Apr 01, 1964      oa         3nng  SamkutS. Ujung PandngI
-  ftE and pEA  (prop,ty tax) by       |       r 31, 193                   d Samimys brve maiaid the
ana mapof notdlodn     S p. a                                                   by FT 'nw36. '8U87.
in   a1i                                                                '37/3. For FT 3U39.
________________________________________________________________________________   I  _______________________   ________________________________________________________________   _________________________________________________________________________ I



- 32 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH  UgBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT  (LOAN  2408-IND)
Table 6: Loan Covonant Comoliance (cont'd)
Rd i  flTarg dam (if any)  Cmt
Brxf Dxaqxwm  f avervinu     g   ,-=      fore-*- Gmuimmi    SOMMEeb
IAppI     oafdt rquird           !  3.02            -              i ompid  DaYuPon .wpoomd it
Cp Karym. PUOD,and a ii y of                                            S-1 -xwwoo     mmae omdd to
rzmy   mdis nd su_ im  to tid  3.04 (b)  At regulr imberyal   omnphod  Mamg   infowon y
IEof prq., ptnpin rnpwm  an                 (qmtonty basis              have b   ddoped by
I oni     of            *q,ofES             a I  as a)                  d16al- my-r (Daba PI)
i-aad in ac wy PM U. bE tim
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rnI Fa ot ban mnot y 
Pnlaadom of a Proj. C6mpien       3.04 (d)  Wti2n mix        O=  iW   PCR Urban V azihnd to Bank
Repon (PCR) to a                            aft. tim 1co                Februay 1992
PFrojhiz hh in   U   (PMU throasi  3.07   Not I   foc f.        _  t
Cpt Kup  od  Paral to the BDak              wmE_  plror to thle
-    fnami pr~en o I
P1o, ioad.f _q.po pr.at fmd       3.01 (a)                  Sadatmy 
an    f   by do P.b Cini 
am KayML PUOD. DnJDN
pa uli           - An iniminam of  4.02 (a)        _        Ssioaory U d proj  a_n- and               I
_r~mosy Pl1rom un   nd              an                                 r6ng rys    |
-    (Csd ag a_ncs of              4.02 (b)                            i-I   by Cookai
doprim-  agecis
(indaal6        of                         audkw to the Bank           the P.    aum an  wdmk
wii_)n man                  am - a n-    for FY.
aftba md aof               19"41985nd 1915/916 weo
1   w:                        Tim m    aFy
tbo fibm   of tBPKI) has  nbu tidt ator's
a,dii iPoa8 du.                  tod to om d for FY. 14WS3.
by D: 31. 1915.             By5/6. '6/t7. '7/. '8U9 d
89190, uad 90f91.



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 7: CoipliOtion of Physical Tarxots
KIP                    SURAUAYA                                        SVUKIT             UM7^  jA DAM
PROJECTD OUCW4 -          SAR         ACTUAL         SAR       ACTUAL       SAlt     ACTUAL       LASa     ACTUAL
A. ROAD
V*                     73 n .-55.1m   inns. m       a4. a      42.127.    14.40C0 a    D U1    27Mma    74.430.10
- Fe poem             40 0- IfO        10.56        S C4.00 a   91.573 -      S       *IS20J-m   41.A    46590.
-BdrV (Rod)                             9 me
- G    (F- opD                          16. M
- Gj w.-w.qDob                                                                                               404.50
-TwWw                                                                                                        L5 201
S. SANITATION
-oww.                  13.tM-55.I40in               2019000    2 54.337nm     I 7.UO  363.294    I3SA4m     &r27.0n a
c_w                                   7 S  I.. I I                                                          3. N.
Mc (P&ior.ii.w.         99- ids N4 e4 N.           257M.        Tzn. me     312. Me        nss No  MMe
-N 114.                                                         757 N-.                                      4 No
- E _            (9 w   w 21-2.7 4 No                n4 e        1. N7.     KI0C N     n me    4d701e        dU.U
-      i                ,m 1.SI.                     1n No       23 No      Us No       2Sa NO   S"No        3M U.
C. WATER SU3rlY       e       S          494 S?    I     w WQ Ur   0U Una  o1.2-  U._   39 Urin     l2 U_e   V " U4
3Dio.       46.I4SDi:   I
D PUILIC FACMXrT
_ RN" c_                 9 - 1U M.      20 N.N I0 .                                    I No       14 Me       IN.
tt _ y S_owd            9 -131 .                                SN-                   4 me       7 No        SN.
o 043k. SO
& m4d w                                I1 No
*.G_hwd Scm_                          fSNo
o Addm.W Land 3o.                       42 Me.
* Rw. 1d    i ww
a. OfG_. nN 
* tm_                       ~~~~~~~~~~19514.
.I.dd..52(2S 3 N.e
D. PROM MOSAIC(                          1.165 l 
* . B". Apr. P 4



- 34 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 7: Completion of Physical Tarzets (cont'd)
S W IP                 SUV.A.AYA               SK4A LAG        I      SUXAI4RTA         I   UNUG PANDAiG
r,jJtCT DLSGUPTlDY    ,   SA_       ACTUAL         SAR      ACTUAL        SAR        ACLUAL  !  SAI    AcruAL
A. HOUSEHOLD COLLECTION
-L^arC. H"iic rn           9 me       6 Neo    Tr  TnA Id      40     Toe Tnr  14    6 No         V Me        23 NoK
- Sw aydmf  Trw*            13 No      27 No     (Arm   )
.D"en _                     16 No      ZI No RK 9. cW
-   t mm                  166MeN     410 No      37sNo       39 No       210 me                  3ON.         61Ne
- Conuv v1 10 cuma         40 No     5so N     ToW Mobile                                        3500 m e
- Com m . 6 cum             50 No     142 No    Ca__r SW0       Z9
* Pmwam .in                                                                                     R.P9~.0Uj     a. 1DI).
B. MAI.Z7T COLLECTION
-Lwr H,iMym  Tr_6           4 N          N
-Cnwer mk Vd. la hm         10 No      la No       I Ho        IN-
- Tr,_    _                    No      Id No                                                    Rp 4 t.OWO
-C_o    -. 10__             ZO No      20Z M                                                      450 No
- coao.mr W. I cua         DI No  21   No                                                          10 me
p* ?U71_                                                                                       Rpm!W0 p z t
C. DIS?OSAL SlTE
- Lm  Acqteo                S [la     6. Is us                 1.2 0                 162.46 e       I    Ha
- Cvd Woft
a, A,o ROW     ('                     S25 a                                          1.314 km
b. F_.        (j                     1.936. 
c-Brm                       IN. fi_. dN                                   i A  )7 Z7
Ba* _                       3 No       3 No                    I No        I No        2 Ne
- Robr                                                                     I N.
-W_ T_ Trw        ()                    I No
Wl_ 1                                                         3           INN IN.
D. OTIES
- W er  2 - M     _m        IN.        INe
- W erbb" E2 - Elsownd     IN.        I No
* Ogm.. Tre'*              IN.        I Ne
- 5    t_ E mr              INS        ING
-PSwiArs       (*)
-BM a_,-._      (1                     I NO
04,10,111,111111  (1)                  INMe
-S_al Tr_i P_ (*)                      I N
-Tilm Cew      ()                      2 Ne
-Tr_ Th         (j                     Ip4
- Tnt rw                                                                                           2 No         2 Ne
- Gor  A Z610111111111                            eIN.       I Ne                    2N.
- M)  Trm*                                                                                                     U Ne
_m                       I1.050 No                             7.N e   143 No                   3.  me       S   m5 e
- Dp W..                                                                                IN,
W_ TOW                                                                                i Nm
- ?Phlie {e   Cw                                                                        1 N.
- T,i C_r  ICN



- 35 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH 'JRBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 7: CoInletion of Physical Tarrcs (cont'd)
D R                     SU RABAYA        I       SCRAJNG               SUA.LARTA      !  uiuwo PANDANG
rpnDwCT Dr5cvwN V         S'A ACTUAL                S         ACTUAL  |      A      ACTUAL      SAL       ACTUAL
A. PRDAAYtY CANAL         I.Sao         16.826  4_5 kim         7.252 kim
B. SECONDARY CANAL         30= a        1SM32.0 .    12.5 km    13.1Q ki                         2S.9fO .
C. TZRTRtY CA4AL          6.2S0.0 m     13.736.0 m   S49 k.     9.312 km                         47,740 a    6".0S 
D. BRWGZ. REEIID.TATION                               4 pF        10 P
E. DREDGING I CA4t0tt                                17.3 km    20.47S km                        4.0 gm
F. OTEERS
- Amphhmw Drodqw           2 eN         21N.         INS
. Mobibe Cnom wAiN C_wW    21 NS        2 N-                     21N
-Dwgw                        meN        6 me                    2 Me
- Duw Tni 6N                          71 ?NN        6No        9 Me                             3N.        21M.
- Pdwr Csldk                            214.
- Rbm. Puw Sm..                         3N.
- G_ ci                                 I No1N2N
- connt                      ~~~~~~114a                                                2N.        2N4.
- W_r G_                                                           IPC
. Woo PIV                                                       2 PC                             7 Ne       7Ne
- J1 addl                                            2N.         INS
- wmoINS
pm b_                                                           I No
-BwkE                                                2N 2N                                       IN.         3Nme
Tr,_ Ras                                                       IN1
wC.                                                                                             3.       3
- TrMi,r                                                                                        3S NN
-  TN*                      .                                                                    11
- IL -                                                                                           ING,       I m



- 36 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 8: Project Performance Indicators
_~~ C  _       4                 , t   
,, ~ ~ _                  -s _
< c
,        
_    -   a   b  -  -                             U_
< -
<
I _   ,   .   *    No -                                    _    
31
<  j1
<
s<!
'Cl
q.  .               g                   g                 -     
'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
+-~ ' --e                       - _4        
_   - _ .N 
<          N
Z i'
!  .  I     0  ON    N    -         0    N    -N      N
4 < ! _  I   >    ^   "          -                _~~- 
'C               I I 
3~~~~ ~~ 3 i  3                                     UXXX1   
*    *  a      zi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-37 -
PROJIECT COMPLETION REPOR~
INDONESIA
FliPTiI tiRtVAN DEVELOPMENT PItOVECT (LOAN 2408-INn)
Table 9:  TechnicalAssistanceSumary
SUB  COMPONENT            EXECUTINGOAGENCY                            SAR                                               REALIZATION                                     ____          CONTRACT VAI-IIE
___________________ _____________ ______  ~~OBJECTIVES                                 CONSUL TAN T ICONTIUACT NO                   OBIECTIVY!s __              AGENC'Y  SAR   ACTUIAL
A. MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
PROGRAMa
IFi.1a1 Pb."On MAd                DO. Meoirsa.          To p.ovWd amol . In. to
P,.V-                  miedow,~ of nl.w.e    a   Tb. des.lopmni VAd INWkuwonenon Of
DO0 Pt100. Mi.exty          Meimk- Uno.~mn ri.o ipogmu  in        I.  riunmid Ploingn   &               To o  amWomming SW A  inin            DO mom                   7U0612
ot H1gm. Alf.,v           loM d ft.  epn"  oom;in                      MaN1pW.a                         a       im &  wdmdo of inawdPN
- Local Opwnv,wnl  - Inycowi ..aad po~.muq             PT  R ED ECON                  ldo.aion nymobi.
oI ha Piojac,              L,yoirwd an onomr NW p. c"os.               s 4111 I Po I UV il M1
C,.7                       AN t-ovod.mbor ot boigab 1oman
of in P.opcl4              alN 1adInot .ne
c..y                      - IW*i.d ainoendag ad fien-ir           I   Lana Oowr-.njo Fim=.I             T. mmM*  airn km nynnt.Do PqIOD                                7.
"a. A inbodoctins of    p.mw-              Mmgonnwa A A-vw.nd  In           inow-s       a  anrnso dt4lopn.
Id.raof-u-.7ayao                           Ean l-. Nail
b.  ltconundadon of mdond jWdellors               PT  R EDECO N
kw impi.,cing d.. IhAnene swop.             901 / 203 / P1200
mrso of soudoipal a-wowmai bwmd
40 do imoi.anoinon expeince
.Fomrl and on do job   adin  of WA
4-olopmom Paenning Board. 71.m
city Inoal in in -
2.  Operation mud Mainbumo.         DO P1200. Uwaby    To pro-Wed wemno in ;                                                                                                                      oLm    La.Llim
MumpuweN               of~~~~~ Hore ANd..r   S.  Tno rvom.. magodokine owillng MA
-DG CE. Mmidmy of        InelSeay elloceom,in  ramiwto.
Poblic Woiba             inola  of in ahyd. GAM anb.              I   Boy -  0A &      ( fCity         Emeliudrnee of uppropraies i.cnwd      0G P1300                691.116
-Local Ogoorsom  of   b.  Eombisawm.  of sp.op.ima mu.g.mad.           lfwmuacax..                     opa for &ua.rgoun.oc 
lb. Projact City          ayse to, pawit.pofrom.ming..xecu -             PT P AS                       dmo ad cgobo of O&M occlu4don.
won ad coawol of O& M aca%nomo.              569 I 3125 1 PilOt              w4lb ny0Ia on mwdi'u -Wrn& Q  mua
-i nopad ompm.-n  i.o.e segm A WM"                                              l     urnbd. of d.nisariydd.
proooremnoo.k-i.org of ciiy.M.                                               OhM oprwoim. CON asoneanan. mad
G"M oromedoss. oma    aaomeg. me                                               bla pm
a .  PioduCaonof (lAM ainac1. to. WM.       2.  GM   A Body PlaId               ErsWbIiannd.f md.ndgouum               DO P1305)               26KmS
mawo. ma oq.am:                              iapnaaaemon                     onin .  a an,sme"  wooo.an
d.  Tb. ImlanpI.a.mido dor sA   prooedu -          PT P AS                       fknwto, of land OhM ada a doi
cm com pinwinelv wilonma;                   62I /37 58 / PIlOt) I 1191111    row of gowrnb   adompm.4n-
a.  Tedailno of o rnnilrn diy s.dV In                                            aid land km prW1ding wbdcad aW
imarnan                                                 Asmedi   *        a. land~~~~~~~wa
I fmaliial"Nomo of mdondool lia
on in mowe ado an don
aocare crf land Oa M mabad in           I   GM Li  A  Emily Final            F..od-.nd"Of OA      odto 1dm  -       Do FIOOD                 302.6111
few o -.wm  an   d.an'po' lnloaanai..n  (naIo)                               eW.uff adl equipnd-
6ed lord1 - pMo.Winj eadanscol ad              PT PA S
Ifieworin mok.aiw. a. loa                    602 /4291 1 Pt300 I SO
ao-.n.rmne



- 38 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-INn)
Table  9:   Technical Acetetance  Summrery  (cont'd)
_i_s us$
Ni   ()IMPOH!NT        IXECliTINU AOENCY                       BAR           ____        -_AI ZATIO"                                                                 'ONTYACT VY.UE
0 Oi lt Ic T I VIS             C0NSULTANT I CONTRATNO.                  O&CTh.OS                 AeNCY  S   A R    ACTUAL
1  I _  T-o A-ss               - DG PtlOD. bJ.o.y    T. pio mi.re.r is                                                                                                       MAN    40126
.44 II.... AI.I4.  .  Wwifyif -,W.&. r.-d 1w
DG WMto.ur.1,idowy                       _;                 t. jol Bre.                       bm&hdlmom GI        sp-.W          DO TAX               IS.7SS
d1 Fl.ooo          b. rftbuoi 0f immpso.d "pa                   D DU V IX,NSIILTINO ENO. r-mh,  _, (
LNd (ovmam pa O        . w  (Wo                               S _. .  8. St P Ii 71 i 196     O .ied.&wio of *_  Imes;
of dw Pro)..           end min.ouedoo of b  made;
Ci..               e.  PIO     -_d onda.d myqon f_ So
hiyro 4.&p.Nodh      mw r           2. P,u.did  Prw  P a8              Tndidg of &     .   do _ p__wW     DO TAX                 MM0 ,T7
1            &"P. do._b-                 (I r 1 D A)                   od4gI_    I_dS _50w. _d _aw       DO IPEDA
_M & v.edo                              PT DINTANU DUARMA URN A P( sorwdi NO     wor of __mor
4. T_n<gofbd           do pvio                                              m _ _     o_     owes __ m
W4d4 IF.d" ofevr.  . o,m                S DI1I PIJ I3 tgtm. in
-ft am sad 05.. low sawo b.i
SUB TOTAL                                                                                                                                                          2.7 S.o   2.271.471
A. TECUNICAL ASSISTANICe
A-.oiussw,Pill              - Do CK. Uloubt of                                                                                                                                         7715
r   E..b*                  P.M. Wob.          a.  To praWid    .mm Ir        o
. wct4  un1w.4 b                     I  C.idww PIUr DRiP S-Im.         T rp.-Wd                 u          D  C                 SA.49
F      06.Oo. --don                     PT I N DI1 L 1X CO            .yr"ue  _-os_                         BP
(._tity SWIP/S_do  C      _eoo)          BlK. Ot1011  I 41 CweS I S5
I. o i jb doio rd .mwt1
_wd    _ u  W _.           r         2. C_.M.w PRllI DrW S.wft                                             DO CE        S        54.621
isoyrawo"go.. -.      w                  PT DES  e  C c)                                                     BP
e        _-o.~.r,oo epo.~              IUK 3l0l 5I/CI -2 iiCS/CODICRO4u
3. Codwm    ( rwe                               Wm                    DCK C11117. we
DR I IP Ub     ib *r
PT VItAIA KArYA I DACREA
H9.412O030I/L -OIPLPIDIUA&MD/7
4. C_dr    Pr MDUr ujo P.                                             DO CK                 3J.l9
PT VIBAUA KALSYA I DACRIA                                           or
RK MROUIICI.L-I/PLPIDRJADD/6S
S. C_ma r_w rPlAf                               wdm                   DO CK                 s i"I
DIlp UrpP                                                            of,.  rr
rT VIRAMA K ARYA
tIC 120OtCl.01 -84mmilDtR)m  se
6. Comod (or PR's                               how                   DO CE                 mn. I5S
D P I P Stowg (IE..                        .P



- 39 -
PROJECTr COM4PLETION REPORT
T WlOWSI SA
FICTHU URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECr (LOAN 2408-HID)
Table 91 Technigal oseistance Summnary (cont'd)
SUB          EXECUJTING AOENCY                        S AR                                                   REALIZATION                                                 CIONTRCTVA tii
CUMft)NENT                                          OBIECT-IVES                        CONSULTANTI CONTRACT NO.                        ODJECTTIVES                AOENCY       OAR      ACTUFAL
min..o.iDO CK.                                    To Aah4. i. PMOt ind " K --41 J.
A.imW.. bo                  Mitiby of             mo0uI-a do por-i oooo.
rf-oinr.PMIP.              Pobt,, Work,           *..oo*onromdo piew.f                  Finow.IidAisi  for IlpqP                 T.                    poeiDO CK                               M4.59
bI-Wd.go  oe.o Utoob .-V.t.plmo         PT  D IN A  A SI B                           Om oy4                            BP
b   To .ombIh md oIIeWn e aawV-           IlK 020301/C? O7IIf,1CESIss
otot W-mwno.eye. ad. nKIs         2   Fimool MAWoe F. SMG&SKA                                 Mdor                   DO CK                   12n.457
foet5-id &p1yiy.iopoPT MENPRANA UTAMA                                                                                  BP
of projeo p.ouoinbI-, oHIK. 0703iIJC?-07 t/PIcEs/ss
infornodos.oe,ved Ie,- do. FlUe   3   Fin.oIW Adim,o fo. So.o.yo                              Id                      Do CE                 IS7.39S
o.To -..iiPMIIno.  d.I.gb:               PT KOMINI)o SAK TI                                                              BP
r- po rd.. u..o.. *                   HodooyIK 02001/1CP 070iFIBS
proJeol-oobm5 ye.                4   P M U  A4ob. (o- Ss.G A SKA             To o"1.obIh dM *WW  .inoeuw            DO. CE                 759.544
-du too.Iy o..d.b  dooooo.M          LOUIS BERG ER  NUT.                      amoindoow YWI'M do PMUu to. 8-           BP
o.rododoc ororo  *.inofrsY       lIEK 020J0IICP 06ef1'ICESf$S            .otrid A phyilo -npeo of F-ojoI
rMsva d- 00 serwo"ao eo.
from do FlUe
d   To pro.44. "kidi  h. Pmu peroomo    S-  P M U  Adobe. to. Sobwy.                              Ide..                   DOGCK                 264.901
a d. Emwil io d. .- of poojoo           EINHNIL SrEARNS PTV LMD                                                         Si'
umxnoaoU -d m,eoto-ro                 HK. 0203011CP-073MPICPSIBS
6.  EMil Adobe. for tIp.n Fortmi                            dMs                     C rcE                 R  404
TRANS ASIA ENGINEERING                                                         BP
IlK. 020301,JCP-075/C//MRD'$S
I   Pdioi..o of Aino,1m. .b                 To -in i-iB,. Ping  e,CPfMO in         I'm; UK                204 9? I
to. Dem Pwoop... - cip. L.w-ye          mOmei  do p-rono                         SF
PT DROMO ).ASARANG CONSULTANT
IlL r03JOICP .4/BP/L)GCKrdg
8   PMUl Adojeor SMG & SKA (..l)            Toeomablkh =W I,mIonei o mmgwno        Il. U k                196.331
LOUIS  BERGER  INT.                     ldornemioeoyoemdo PMUlefof               SFB
H&. 020I01JCP-4/0S/I'RjSPCKM3S          mId1 A pby.bkI wp.rbof proje.
progi,ai bm.d 00 Woomo.e reomod
from do f FIs
9   FMUl Adobe. 1w %wobo."                                  Id41                   DO CK                  1011.933
KINHILL STEARNS ?TY LMD                                                         BP
HK. 020301/C? -41I2IPRIBPCIKMI
30  PUII Adobe, fe Ilpqe Perdog                                                    [NJ.  D  CK            IW6.3)9
TRANS ASIA ENGINEVRINGI                                                        BP
IlL. W07O3LCi'. 4M7/IPR/BDI'CK/6
II.    PMO0 Amlcim Sodl;                    To --WIdSm Peogwm.sCFM0In              DGCK                    46,111
PT BROMO MSASARANO CONSULTANT   amm4iq do peoJec                                 BP
KU OM-CPIPMP3LT'89
12.  UK W CONEIULTMW1SE t ERMANY                           Id..                     O C7K                  61.72SO
KEl'O 01- CP IPMP3KT II97                                                        BP
13  Amie.awe, SW"or to T K P P              To eowi. TEPP i. oordimingr            DOGCK                  276.35
PT Dim Aeih.                            Prepor-  mid .upoeo.nBP
HEK.02 001- CP4/P4AB(BPI(K 5474/90     Io.p1o.oeoooe of oppw



- 40 -
*                                                 PROJCT CONPLETION REPORT
INDONESITA
FIrIlI m RBIN DEV &LOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table  9:   Technical Asiastance  Summary  (cont'd)
'. Twxid ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__                                                                      _  _  __  _  _  _  __  _  _ _ __         n      . USLrWClS
4UD - COIPOEN SWIPTR4 AGNY                                        Af                                                   ____________
A w_ Ci                  _                 Da cs               1w. -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~laus
S     c PotmT  PXR  ARREALIZATION                                       CONTRACT ALUE
03ItIE C T I V8              CONSULTANT I CONTRLACT NO.              CJCITES                AGEN       SAR    ACTJAL
2.Tochir.1A..&ew  s            -FLPDO CK. Mkidsu                                                                                                                     L.1mwM    uajjh
rAdu~~~ ~ ~                                                    S.u   C_tIU ofUtt _UI                                                  WCl                7.
PT TRANS ASIA INEIEUDO
UK. 020301/aCL-211CESI1B1RDI44
2. cSm.i W      I wl r              To I                   m.d.      DO CK                6.274
PT  ALFACON                    drpmvdme                          Pip
BK. 2OISIICL-SI/CES/RDJIS
3. CPm.da. Flu E       m I                                           Do CK     11.271
PT LAMONA S. ENOUIREED                                           pt-P
IlL. mssl,1CL-MUCES(IoRn,s.
4   Comf.dw PS I' WW bww a                                           F. vn CSK7,iq
rr roM l*Krtsu't
UK. 0203011CL-291CMSIDRDI64
S. cTme PD_    SW!? u* _ P.          Tdm                             DO Cl                76.94
PT PERNNCANA ASECA SARANA                                         nP
DL WOJOI/CL-IiCEWIDIRD0I
S.  awl? a.. SYFCH                                                    DOCK        *       S22
PT TRANS ASIA ENGINeEKDNO                                         Pt p
HK. 0O23DUCL-94iCES(IDRD106
J. Pr.j.oi A"w Audimo             - DO Cl. MI.... of                                                                                                                    In.mO    zSLll
Se..mim                       P.ANr Wo1k.
T To  1M1to Dftwru  of PIm4o    1.  PrO.FIinewt S__ s ,J.V          To cLy Ole fl.w  mhiNo5          DOCK                M9749
-DOCK.-.I  im p    tl_dn M..         Dm Dn. WCIH SAIRM A  CO                                          FIN
&       r. dh  de mb _   *".        KL. 020201ICSS - I VP2AKIIIDI
pw   -- io A .pp.d.d lnw. wha,  2 .  T A & Urbm V Co,oinulidd                    Id..                DO CL                11322
mw ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ n tU-W-t      D      ;  YC    ALWU A^ W0 rimS
0.. syec s4     i u v     CO                                        FIN                Nd
b. To drnIopF *A l-how r*m.p.U.        UK. Ul0OI/ICS3-lI?2ALJUEDIS7
.1 ClPU LWy. icr do. owpimp..  of    S.  PFF0 F1mmw.Smt= Ev4Amd.                  3dm                D13 CL              271645
sw piojdw wmIbbIao to hm4B         Dr.. WINARSA  & CO                                                FVW
by lOmI ..d tcr.p o wi             DX. 0203091C53-IAIJPALIIND097
4.  C -Awsm Tof Fi9m tSm.                         ida.               DO CL        4       s.17
Dr.. YUUWAI DAR WIN                                             Fnm
Hit. 02o=IICS-33*FAK 'BRD4S
S.  T A & t e llgV Coo.4mild                     Id..                DO CK               27665
DEW. WIN ARSA  A CO                                               FMN
HK. 06OSCSI-39WA1iS9
4.  Ufir.d Aa.o*..1Smm0 ..           To suIdb" .           la7binPMU  DO CK               41.917
TUOU LOLA ANDALAN CONSULTAL                                       CPFO
_ _ _ .    _ _  -. ---                                 WCS3 __ _AX_ 9



- 41
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
Table 9: Technical Aesistance Suw1nary (cont'd)
SuB - COMPONENT       EXECUTING AGENCY                   A                                          R E A L IZ A T I0 N                              CONTRACT VALUI
OBJECTIVE S                 CONSULTANT I CONTRACT NO.              OBECTIVES            AGeNCY    S AR   ACTUAL
S. Di b.Mo_iq Sav6mo 59/90;         Toamihhdi. momwip4            DO CK               ".544
PT DINA ASIII                 .wkvs In(pro                    C?FO
UKE. osOSCI3_ 3/1$W1b&abJ
9. UtSm V Comoldado                 To owolt d       _id   h      DO CE               3,26s
FI_-tupb                                                        Pt'
SUB  TOTAL                                                                                                                                           3.m.0   S.004.141
C. PEASIDILITY STUDY        - DO CK. d1    of     To nwa. mamud. h.dmd.                                                                                    1J         W
Psbik Wok            T.rhdod A FIl_  _%dis *-d
- DO PUOD. Midsay   s _d- p_sd to awbk  mb_ Is     1. D R I P F S to 9a.*a             Pr.pwvoa of DRIP -no pha      DG CK              1".04
el Ham Allui        sc_d cidmm/pWo.m                     PT ALFACON                                                    oP
- lo1W oswainwo    (Sw_,&- Dsi-o. Oby. t-  _-V6-)      HE. 0203/C-SWCESIBRDM.
Cia.                                              2. S_/im-i_. 1s-. SC U D P           Projt- propauno of Sd m S      GKp  W l'K 7C2E7
W-j is Ws, Suly                 SCUDP                           r,r
SCOT T  FURPIPY. UNISTEM
HK. (1i.ODICr4AfDIPCK/
3. Urk  MI IV (APi- PW    of Pro-t CmayIobo                       DO CK               33.33
PT SUbMS PRASIIH. *ANrS BITTS   Rspon (PCS) 1111,. mW/v         BP
IML. 001/CF-4/ IIPRPCCKI
4. JUDr u Prp. & c    _tmodd powpaud od nUD 11                    DG CK               S5,.610
SETAME. SOOREAH                                                or
Add. HILK. 02031/P4RP- JIM3
1. Em__.a L_SU A N D A L             *._fr.m  d                   DO CX               711.0
.                 _ _~~~asbm    A _ mas
S. Urki V Vca hC                            VCPC  U.k. V          DO CK               44.632
SIP



- 42 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
FIFTII URtAN DEVELOPMENT PRiOJE'T (IOAN 2408-INp)
Table 9a Technical AsIp"tance Summary (cont'd)
-ECT
_____                  _____________                                                                                                                             I. us$
stoI - COtrNENT       EXECUTING AGENCY                   SAM                                          R eAL1ATION 3t
OB1 E C T I V E sCONSULTANT I CONThACT NO                           oDJ!CTWVE            AOENCY    S A I   ACTUAL
D    TRANINU PROGRAM                                                                                                                                               B    d-M
1.  TiWin bo Urhs DDeveop~          T,iwg for UrIm gpad  wimg     Do CK                0.000
TK TD
E    INSTITUTIONAL                                                                                                                                                 e   2LN3
DEVELOPMENT PROGRA
1. Cowsdi.SeAos s                                                  DOCK c4.715
sov & co                                                     INTAL
uK. 020303oC-ti3CtScslaDfal
2. On __Wffi|,"f                                                   Da CK              1%.56S
HASKONING/PT LESTARI DR/PT E                                    Pi P
1Ht 02010 i-CL011PI P/ADD/IIRD/S7
3. hObidiom Do.topsni of            E     _olbiamO Of W mona       I)C (1UK            65.404
I N T A L DLvio.                Idofonbo.nym                   INIAI
P1 MEDCOXM INDOSA ENGtNEERING
11-. 012021CS 1002/03
4.  h.Wtd  I.W   oof                            I                  1)C CK              141 I
I N T A L I)viskm                                              INi AL
PT PRAJA ATIBRATA
IIL 0S 02/CS 1002,02
S.  kudmai.. Developm.M ol                      I                  DO CE               104,W7
I N T A 1. Dvioio                                             INTAL
BGY & CO
Hi..0 o1WICS t0W /Oh
SUBI  TOTAI. _i_1O000  I.17.861
__  TOT AL          _    _ _ __    ____.=_                                                                                                          __ _ _ 0    .<7T.u2



- 43 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 10
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2408-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Performance Oriented Maintenance Management System (POMMS)
I.   Introduction - Description of POMMS
The Performance-Oriented Maintenance Management (POMM)
System was part of a systematic effort to overcome the Operations
and Maintenance  (O0M) problems of urban infrastructure.   This
effort was based on the experience of Urban I-IV projects (see
PCR's).  POMMS was conceived in early 1985 by the Government of
Indonesia through the Directorate General of PUOD, Ministry of Home
Affairs, with financial assistance from the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development from the Technical Assistance
component of the Fifth Urban Development Project (2408-IND).
POMMS was designed as a management tool specifically
developed to assist city governments to manage 02 activities
efficiently and effectively.   The principal components of the
system consist of inventory, planning, scheduling, ex*cuting, and
evaluation functions.
An inventory of existing facilities and condition of all
city infrastructure (except water supply) provides the baseline for
all POMMS work. The Annual O02 Work Program and Budget is the end
product of the planning function, which includess
(i)     definition of maintenance work activities,
(ii)     amount of work to be accomplishod,
(iii)     resource availability and unit costs,
(iv)     performance  standards  or  planning  guidelines  for
specified activities, and
(v)     the work program and budget.
When the Annual Work Progrm and Budget is approved, the
scheduling function takes place, including preparation of the
workload distribution and the work calendar and the calculation of
overall resource requirements. The executina function links the
preparatory functions (planning and scheduling) with the actual
ezecution of tho work.  This involves preparation of short-torm
schedules, setting daily work assignments and recordLng the work
accomplished and resources used. Finally, the evaluatlon function
ensures that the work is performed according to the proqrau. This
involves comparing work accomplished with the work planned,
preparing reports and taking actions to correct devLations from



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
planned porformance in order to moet overall maintenance objectives
or adjusting the targets based on the experience gained.
The POMM System is designed to generate the following
information:
(a) a   comprehensive   and   current   database   of   city
infrastructure assets and condition by class and type of
infrastructure (again, excluding water supply);
(b) comprehensive lists of O&M responsibilities and needs in
each work sector by organizational unit;
(c) documentation of maintenance tasks by work activity;
(d) performance  standards,  work  criteria  and  resources
required for each O0M activity;
(C an annual work program and budget for each organizational
unit which is responsive to maintenance needs, objectives
and levels of services to be provideds
(f) documentation of O0M work and budget data for the purposes
of forecasting future maintenance requirements and
developing life cycle costs and asset evaluationsl and
(g) a database of all maintenance information by location,
class or type.
II.  GOI OM Policy Review
A parallel national policy study by the MinLstry of Home
Affair! on Operations and Maintenance in City Infrastructure
(1987) noted the following problems with local O0X activities by
typical local governments in Indonesiat
(a)     The present  format of  the  budget  is  inadequate  for
identifying available funding for sections or subsections
of OAK executing agencies.
(b)     The coding structure has not yet been fully utilized to
record specific cost items related to OAK expenditures
such as materials, contract work, personnel costs by
classification.
(c)     Estimates of O&   expenditures are baed on hLstorical
spending trends and incremental increases each year rather
1 Final Report for Director-General PUOW, XlnastrT of Rome
Affairs, Republic of Indonesia, IBRD Loan No$ 2816 1UD0 1937



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 10
than on resources required to accomplish planned
quantities of work.
(d)     Appropriations for building maintenance are fragmented by
Dinas resulting in a loss of efficiency and inability to
capture savings through bulk purchases of materials.
(e)     Appropriations for vehicle maintenance, spare parts and
fuel have not yet been separated according to Dinas which
distorts the total cost of O&M by Dina.
(f)     The majority of costs for routine and periodic maintenance
of infrastructure are not included in the routine budget
but are developed as "projects and put in the development
budget.
The aforementioned study also issued the following recommendationsa
(a)     A  clearer  definition  of  criteria  for  distinguishing
between    development    projects    (which    include
rehabilitation, betterments and new construction) frQ
routine and periodic maintenance activities by sector.
(b)     Placement of all appropriations for routine and periodic
maintenance activities in the Routine Budget and utllizing
PADS (Local Government Revenues) as a major source of
funding for O&M.
(c)     Implementation of a new coding structure for the Routine
Budget which clearly identifies expenses for operation and
maintenance activities for each work sector of O&X
organizational units.
The principal objectives to be achieved under new procedures
suggested by the study were as follows5
(a)     Simplifying and shortening the process for preparation,
review and approval of O&M Work Programs and Budgets by
transferring appropriations for routine and periodic
maintenance from the Development Budget to the Routine
Budget.
(b)     The use of performance budgeting method in prparing the
Annual O&A  Budget.  Performance budgeting would differ
from a line item budget, in that a correlation between
quantities of work planned to be performed and projected
costs of resources to perform the work would be
established. It also offered other possible advantages.



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 10
(i)    Calculation of annual costs of O&M by activity for
each work sector could be made based on maintenance
requirements of infrastructure according to the
current condition of its features and operational
requirements and based on specified operations and
maintenance work planned to be provided.
(ii)    A breakdown of costs by major cost items of labor,
equipment and materials could be produced.
(c)       More  long  term  planning  of  new  urban  development
projects by considering the city's capacity to fund
adequately   the  O0M   requirements   of   existing
infrastructure.
IIl.  Brief History of POMMS Development
Phase 1 of the POMMS program development, started in late
1985, was primarily aimed at designing the system and providing
assistance to four major cities (Surabaya, Somarang, Surakarta and
Ujung Pandang) in improving their O0M management capabilities. The
initial program was concluded in early 1988 and included the
following recommendations for further work:
(a)       refining  and consolidating  the  Performance Oriented
Maintenance Management System (POMMS);
(b)       further testing of the system and improvement of the
implementation techniques in four additional cities;, and
(c)       initiation  of  efforts  to  overcome  the  constraints
encountered in trying to institutionalize the POK
System.
Phase 1I of the POMMS progrm, financed by the Bank's
Urban Sector Loan (USL-2816-rND), was startod in October 1988 in
order to continue refining and consolidating the PO0K System in the
previous study cities and expand the implemntation of the PO0
System to four additional citiost Bandung, Banjarmasin, Denpasar
and Jambi. During the course of the study three types of solutions
were developed to overcome constraints encountered in Phase r.
First, the project established a Special Working Group
on O& at the TIN KOORDINASI PEMBANGUNAN PBRKOTAAN (TKPP),
responsible   for   providing   overall   coordination   it   the
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of strategies, policies
and action plans related to city infrastructure OK 31n all levels
of Governmnt. Second, the project sponsored the proparatlon of
Draft National Policies for City Infrastructure O& which provides



- 47 -
ANNEX
Page 5 of 10
comprehensive guidelines for Local Government O&M practices and
related institutional development, including management, financial,
and   technical   aspects.      Third,   the   project   developed
recommendations for improving the budget preparation and review
procedures that allow cities to identify O&M maintenance needs and
improve control over appropriations and expenditures.
Phase II concluded in October 1989 with the following
recommendations:
(a)       The  need  for  additional  technical  assistance  in
coordinating the actual issuance of National Level
Policy and supporting regulations for O&M.
(b)       The need for continuing assistance to Local Government
in implementing revisions to budget preparation and
review procedures.
(c)       The need for developing a more simplified version of the
POMM   System   to   accommodate   varying   levels   of
capabilities of smaller local governments to manage the
system.
An extension to Phase 2 work program was undertaken from
December 1989 to June 1990 with the objective of initiating and
implementing the recommendations that were developed in Phase rr of
the Study and the development of the simplified POMMS version for
use in medium-sized and small local governments to be addressed in
Bank loan programs such as EJBUDP and SIJUDP.   The principal
results of this six months' extension were as follows :
(a)       The issuance of Minister of Homs Affairs Decree So.5,
January 1990 for fully implemnting new budgeting
preparation and review procedures for O&M in the eight
study cities (see next page).
(b)       Development of three versions of the POM0 System to be
implemented in cities with varying levels of capacity to
manage.
(c)       Revision of previous and development of new training
materials
(d)       Development of an O&M work progrm and budget for Fiscal
Year 1990/1991 for the eight study cities using the POMK
System and new procedures for O& budget preparation.
(e)       Development of mechanisms for monitoring impl mentation
of each version of POII Systm at each level of
government.



-48-
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 10
At the end of this extension, agreement with governments
in the study cities was reached to extend the consultant assistance
for preparing the Orm work program and budget for fiscal year
1991/92.   Supplementary regulations and instructions were also
prepared to improve cities' enforcement of POMMS implementation.
IV. Minister of Home Affairs Decree No.5/1990
In order to realize the recommendations for integrating
a maintenance management system into existing budget preparation
and review procedures, the Minister of Home Affairs issued Decree
No. 5 in January 1990. This initiated implementation of new O&M
budget preparation and review procedures for Fiscal Year 1990/1991
in eight study cities.  In a related step, MHA requlations were
revised to allow local governments to use up to 251 of their
annual, general purpose development grant (INPRES DATI II) for 01X
costs.
The principal reason for adopting the new methods were
that the majority of funds for OM are appropriated in the
development budget which leads to the following problemst
(a)       it prevents a systematic approach to the treatment of
OM requirements
(b)      O01 Budget may fluctuate greatly from one year to the
next depending on the availability of developmnt funds.
(c)       it elevates some decisions on maintenance to the higher
level of government as a political decision rather than
a technical one by having 01& projects considered along
with development projects.
(d)       it makes tracking of total expenditure of funds for 01&
difficult by fragmenting the costs between the Routine
and Development Budget.
Ixplomntatica of the Decree t Status and Principal Results
The principal task of the Consultants in the Extension
of Phase 2 of the 01&  Study was to implement the Ministry of Hoe
Affairs` Decree No. 5/1990 in eight projoct cities.
The principal results of the implomentation were as follows :
(a)       Awareness of the importance of proper 0&M increased.
There were significant increases in the aounts budgeted
in all work sectors for 01& over the previous year.



- 49 -
ANNEX
Page 7 of 10
(b)       The skill levels in terms of technical, administrative
and supervisory capacities of personnel have been raised
across the broad spectrum of work activities found in
the study cities.
(c)       Better understanding of th. potential capacity of the
POM? System in streamlining the OIM organization
development and resource utilization.
(d)       A comprehensive framework including specific forms and
procedures for properly conducting O&X tasks have been
developed, tested and documented.
(e)       Training  materials  were  developed  to  facilitate
expansion of improved management practices to other
cities.
V. Current status of POMMS
The Urban V Development Project made a systematic effort
to overcome operations and maintenance problems of urbarn
infrastructure, using Performance Orianted Maintonance Kanaqeaent
System (POMMS). Four additional cities have now installed POSE.
The GOI has laid down important foundations for continuing the
improvement of local government capabilities for managing
infrastructure,as represesented by the Minister of Home Affairs
Decree No. 5/1990.
Evaluation of successes of POMMSs
o   Project local governments are now tracking operations and
maintenance expenditures by sector;
o   Municipalities  have  assumed  greater  responsibillity  for
operations and maintenance of their infrastructure;
o   POMMS cities are demonstrating an ability to plan for future
investnt in infrastructure and environmental improvement
given their increased capacity to understand th recurrent
expenditures relatod to investment;
o   1hnlcipalities  have  increased their capacity  to contract
(privatise)  maintenance  and  use  P06  to  monitor  these
expenditures, e. g., Surabaya contracting for solid waste
operations in some areas);
However, some problems with initial PO   implementation rmain to
be overcomes



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 10
o   POMMS computerized database management system has not worked
in all the cities implemented;
o   maintenance  standards/expenditure  in POMMS  system are not
always consistent with standards/expenditures at local level;
o   there are no physical infrastructure performance or service
level indicators presently in the system to assess the
effectiveness of the O&M expenditures;
o   POMMS  system  was  found  to  be  too  complicated  and  data
intensive;   efforts   made   on   the   part   of   particular
municipalities have resulted in the development of three
different versions of POMMS.   Even the simplified version
developed for smaller Kabupatens do not generate monthly or
quarterly reports.
o   A separate module for water supply system O&M remains to be
developed for complete data on local infrastructure O&X coUtE.
Despite these problems,  the relative success and the
potential for refinement of this effort to improve operations and
maintenance is clear. Some'local governments acting on their own
have devised solutions to difficulties which arose, such as the
development of a simple spreadsheet approach to generating POMKS
reports and documenting of different maintenance standards and
expenditures.



-51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 10
VI.   Specific Recommendations/ Future Steps in POMMS Development
The Indonesia Ministry of Home Affairs and Cipta Karya
have identified that POMMS is a key element in their information
system for mananagement of urban development programs and
infrastructure maintenance to carry out the mandate of Repelita V
and improve accountability for urban expenditures at local,
provincial, and central government levels. There are several major
urban development projects planned in the near future and POMS
should be an important tool for montoring and evaluating the impact
on service delivery of these programs.
To ensure that POMMS continues to be operational and
capable of meeting these needs, the following actions should be
taken:
1.    Development of a support program for POH3   including
training, computer hardware maintenance, software
modification to simplify system operation.
2.    Development of POMMS peformance indicators that provide
quantifiable measures of actual services delivery to the
public in each sub-sector compared to appropriate
standards for these services.  These measures must be
both necessary to decision-makers and streamlined for
their use, and expanded to include water supply system
costs.
3.    Refinment of the standards for each sub-sector used in
PO(S8.   This would involve policy and affordability
review under the leadership of TKPP/ING and would
eventually  lead  to  revision  of   IUIDP  planning
guidelines.
4.    Future POMS development should be closely coordinated
with other data gathering efforts related to urban
projects, especially environmental resource quality and
standards data.   Decision-makers  should be able to
assess the relationship between infrastructure service
levels and impact or effect on environmental resources
such as water, soil and air.
5.    POMMS  future  implementation  should  be more  closely
supervised by GOI TKPP/IMG with support from IBRD.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 10
Relationship of POMMS to On-going and Future Bank Protects
The POMM System can be seen as a means of improving the
ability of local governments to measure the performance of their
urban development project components and as a key input to related
decisions at local government levels.  It also has the potential to
improve the accountability of decision-makers to the Ministry of
Home Affairs and to the local service users, and to generally
support GOI strategy for improving urban management capacity in
Indonesia. However, it is currently in a fragile condition due to
lack of training and implementation followup actions as doscribed
above and by the GOI (in Appendix 1). The two most recently agreed
Bank urban loans in Indonesia -- the East Java-Bali Urban
Development Project (EJBUDP) and the Sulawesi/Irianjaya UDP --
include specific provision in the technical assistance components
to install the simplified version of POMH8 and further refine the
system while strengthening project local governments' capacities to
perform O&M activities. Of particular noto is the provision of the
EJBUDP loan which requires that each participating local gorernment
include..4&MM expenditures in their 5-year expenditure progrm (PJX)
and establishes the minimum annual level of actual 06K expenditures
as 90% of the PJM agreed program as a condition for further
participation    The prograumatic approach of EJBUDP offers the
flexibility to update/revise the PJM estimates based on actual
experience with POMIS implementation as well as any changes in
standards or service level targets which may evolve from the
continuing refinement of the PO0X system, per the foregoing
recommundations.   It is, thus, recommended that the EJBUDP be
regarded as the focal point for further development of tho POXKS
and related service level target discussions, and environmental
monitoring indicators development.  other Bank operations still
under preparation, including the proposed Kalimantan UDP, Surabaya
UDP, and Semarang-Surakarta UDP, should also include appropriate
provisions for POMS implementation and refinemont.
It will be nocessary for tho TKPP/ING OX working group
to review and coordinate the Terms of Reference for technical
assistance to ensure that these adequately support the developent
of the POXW1 and to provide additional technical assistance
utilizing both local training capacity and expatriate sources. In
addltion, it may be useful to create some form of assistance team
to work with the various cities trying to implement PO6 and which
could provide ongoing support to resolve impl _ ntation proble s.
It is recomiended that the TKPP/ING OAK working group review the
feasibility of establishing such an assistance toam, perhaps as a
part of the UNCHS RIAT group.



