Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F ILE PO"Y
Report No. P-3778-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$39.25 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 19, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          Rupiah (Rp)
US$1              =    Rp 1,000
Rp 100            =    US$0.10
Rp 1 million      =    US$1,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS        =  National Development Planning Board
Cipta Karya    =  Directorate General of Housing, Building, Planning
and Urban Development in the Ministry of
Public Works
DRIP            =  Drainage Improvement Program
GOI            =  Government of Indonesia
Kampung        =  Densely populated informal settlement areas
KIP             =  Kampung Improvement Program
MOHA            = Ministry of Home Affairs
MFW             =  Ministry of Pubic Works
PERUMNAS       =  National Urban Deve:Lopment Corporation
PFO            =  Project Finance Office
PIU            =  Project Implementation Unit
PMU            =  Project Management lJnit
PUOD            =  Directorate General of Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy
in the Ministry of Home Affairs
Repelita       =  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III,
1979-84, Repelita IV, 1984-89)
SWIP           =  Solid Waste Improvement Program
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
FIFTHI URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:    Municipalities of Surabaya, Semarang, Surakarta, and Ujung
Pandang.
Amount:            $39.25 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-
end fee.
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:  $28.7 million would be relent to the project cities and the
provincial government of South Sulawesi (where Ujung Pandang
is located) for 20 years, including five years of grace, at
a fixed interest rate of 10%. The foreign exchange risk
would be borne by the Government.
Project
Description:    The project would support the Government's efforts to
provide essential urban services to low income groups in
four major cities and foster improvements in municipal
management: and administration. The project would include:
(a) the provision of integrated basic services such as
roads, footpaths, water supply and sanitation, primary
schools and heaLlth clinics in low income neighborhoods
(known as kampugs); (b) improvements in solid waste
management: and surface drainage; (c) municipal management
studies irn financial planning, programming and budgeting,
operations and maintenance, cost recovery and revenue
generation; and (d) technical assistance for project
implementation and preinvestment and feasibility studies.
The project would provide improved basic services to 1.2
million residents of the four cities. About 760,000 would
benefit from the kampung improvement program. Another
400,000 would share in the benefits of the solid waste
disposal program, which would provide a cleaner physical
environment and reduce health risks, and the drainage
improvement program, which would minimize the risks of
property damage, illness and loss of life arising from
periodic flooding.
There is a risk that the municipal management studies would
be delayecl by limited capacity at the Ministry of Home
Affairs to supervise specialized consulting assignments.
This risk woulcl be addressed through the involvement of an
inter-minister:ial steering committee. The cities of
Semarang and Ujung Pandang may also lack sufficient
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- jii -
experience to manage large-scale drainage works, but they
would be assisted by personnel seconded from the provincial
and local. branch offices of the Ministry of Public Works.
Estimated Project Cost:                                Local   Foreign  Total
----…  ($ million)
Kampung improvement program              13.0       6.7    19.7
Solid waste management program            1.4       4.3     5.7
Drainage improvement program             11.9       6.3    18.2
Municipal management programs             1.2       0.9      2.1
Technical assistance                      2.5       1.2     3.7
Base Costs                           30.0     19.4    49.4
Contingencies
Physical                              1.1      0.5      1.6
Price                                 8.2      5.1    13.3
Total Project Cost /a                39.3     25.0    64.3
Front-enid fee on Bank loan                -        0.1     0.1
Total Financing Required                 39.3      25.1    64.4
Financing Plan:                                         Local   Foreign  Total
--   ($ million)-----
IBRD                                     14.1     25.1    39.2
Central Government                        7.2        -      7.2
Provincial Governments                    4.8        -      4.8
City Governments                         13.2        -     13.2
Total Financing Provided:.          39.3      25.1    64.4
Estimated
Disbursements:         Bank FY          198'i  1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
… ---------   (US$ million)------
Annual:           0.9   3.2    6.8    9.8   10.8    7.7
Cumulative:       0.9   4.1   10.9   20.7   31.5   39.2
Rate of Return:    About 24% on thoseb activities for which benefits can be
estimated and which account for about 75% of the project
costs.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 4887-IND, dated April 12, 1984.
Maps: IBRD 17528, 17529, 17530 and 17531.
iIa Includes US$1.1 million in taxes and duties.



REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$39.25 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Fifth Urban Development
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. A portion of the loan (US$28.7
million) would be on-lent to the project cities and the provincial government
of South Sulawesi (where Ujung Pandang is located) at an interest rate of 10%
per annum for 20 years, including five years' grace.  The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by the Govern-ment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1!
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth with Lower Oil Prices"
(No. 4279-IND dated May 12, 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 17, 1983. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for
the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two
million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at about
2.2% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of
agricultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these
primary resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
Provincial Irrigation DeveLopment Project (No. P-3700-IND), circulated
under cover of R83-378, dated December 20, 1983, and approved by the
Executive Directors on January 10, 1984.



.- 2 -
population growth is about 4% p.a. The 1982 estimate of GNP per capita is
US$580, which places Indonesia amongst middle income countries.i/
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expenditures,
total investment and savings.  The initial impetus for this occurred in the
period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s.  The Government took
effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize the economy,
rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domestic and foreign
private investment. However, for the last decade: the dominant external
influence has been the huge expansion, and significant variability, in foreign
exchange earnings from oil.  Net exports from the oil and gas sector rose from
US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.8 billion in 1980/81, when the current
account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 b:illion. Oil receipts also provide about
70% of Central Government receipts and have helped finance the sustained
increase in demand via the budget. The pattern of expenditures has also
helped foster diversified growth: of particular note has been the support for
agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support services and
effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives.  This supported an
agricultural growth rate of almost 4% per annum over the past decade, and
movement towards self-sufficiency in rice.  During 1971 to 1981 manufacturing
has also enjoyed a high growth rate (of aboutc 14% p.a.) from a very low base,
but this has been predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic market.
5.        Since 1981, the macroeconomic rescurce position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and the decline in both volume and
price of oil exports have led to a turnaround in the current account of about
US$10 billion in two years, with a deficit of almost US$7 billion in 1982/83,
equivalent to about 8% of GNP, a level that could not be sustained for more
than a year or two. The Government responded swiftly and effectively to the
worsened resource situation, and, during the first half of 1983, introduced a
comprehensive package of policy measures to reduce the current account
deficit. First, in January 1983, an austere 1983/84 budget was introduced,
that incorporated a sharp reduction in subsidies on oil, fertilizer and food,
and a squeeze on current expe!nditures.  Second, on March 30, 1983, the Rupiah
was devalued by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970 to the US dollar, without changing
the full convertibility of the currency. This was, in part, in response to
the substantial private sector capital outflOw ove!r the previous months.
Third, in May, a major rephasing of public investment was announced, in
particular of large-scale import-intensive projects in the industrial,
electric power and transport sectors. These measures have already ensured the
effective management of the short-run f-oreign exchange position and should
reduce the current account deficits to sustailnable levels over the next two to
three years. A current account deficit of about US$5 billion is now projected
for 1983/84.  The 1984/85 budget, announced in January 1984, maintains a
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of coantry classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNF'.



fairly conservative macroeconomic stance, There is a small real increase in
overall expenditures, much of it due to a 15% increase in civil service
salaries (after over two years of real decline). Fuel prices were raised by
an average of 35%, with much larger increases on relatively subsidized
fuels.  Development spending is budgeted to remain about constant in real
terms. As a consequence of the changed resource position, growth was low in
1982 and 1983.
Policy for Medium-Term Growth
6.        While a reduction in growth is unavoidable in the short-run period
of reduction in the current account deficit, it is essential that growth rates
be restored in the medium tern: a rate of growth of the order of 5% per annum
is probably necessary tc have a significant impact on emp.-,)Tment creation and
poverty alleviation in the 1980s. This will require the diversification of
the economy away from its present dependence on oil, for both foreign exchange
earnings and domestic savings.
7.        The Government of Inldonesia (GOI) has already taken major policy
initiatives to mobilize domestic resources. This involves both the increased
mobilization of private savings, especially of the household sector, through
the financial system, and the diversification of sources of public finance
away from oil exports. With respect to the former, the Government introduced
a major financial reform on June 1, 1983, that includes a significant
deregulation of deposit and lending interest rates, the reduction in
subsidized refinancing facilities from the central bank and the removal of all
credit ceilings. In addition to encouraging deposit mobilization, this should
also lead to increased efficiency of resource use. There have also been major
changes in the area of public finance. After increases over the last three
years, fuel prices are now close to international levels, food subsidies have
been eliminated, and a major simplification of the tax system has recently
been signed into law.
8.        The development of additional foreign exchange earnings from the
non-oil economy will be highly dependent on the policy environment for the
manufacturing sector. In the 1970s, rapid growth in output of manufactures
occurred in response to buoyant domestic demand, supported by a protective
trade regime and closely regulated investment licensing system. As a conse-
quence, the sector is almost entirely oriented toward domestic sales, and
major parts of it suffer from significant inefficiencies, by international
standards. In the future, a higher share of output will have to be allocated
to exports if growth is to be maint:ained, especially in the relatively labor-
intensive consumer goods industries, as well as to continued import replace-
ment. This will require measuires to improve the overall efficiency of the
sector, through policy development on the trade regime and regulatory frame-
work, backed by adjustment strategies for existing industries and specific
export promotion policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to reduce the existing import substitution
bias in the economy, ensure ready access to finance for exporters, raise
product quality and improve marketing capacity. In August 1983 it was further
announced that there would be a major overhaul in the regulatory framework for



-4-
private investment, with the objective of simplifying and streamlining the
licensing system.
9.        Agriculture will also continue t:o be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total of 23.2 million tons in 1982, compared with 13 million tons a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the rehabilitation and
expansion of irrigation systems, the dissemination of new agricultural
technology, and widespread access to seeds and fertilizers. Future investment
in physical infrastructure, in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a
favorable market environment and good support services will be the main deter-
minants of further expansion in foocL production. In the past, tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old. However, the GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and
replanting, necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved
organization of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high
priority program for promoting development: in underpopulated regions,
providing opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and
relieving economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated
islands.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
10.       Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence from household expendilures surveys indicates a fairly wide
distribution of the benefits of growth in the past ten years or so.  Per
capita consumption of the bottom 40% in the expenditure distribution is
estimated to have increased by 2.4% per annum between 1970 and 1980. These
gains are also borne out in the basic health indicators, with a 25% reduction
in tl}e infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy from 47 to
53-1  These improvements should not, however, mask the continued existence of
widespread poverty. Almost 40% of the population are estimated to have been
in this condition in 1980. The core of the poverty problem continues to be in
rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly rising, frac-
tion of the population, and where, Eor most of the 1970s, there is little
evidence of any rise in real agricu:Ltural wages. However, in the 1979-81
period, bumper rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and
incomes in Java, while agricultural incomes on parts of the Other Islands
dependent on export crops declined in the face of the international reces-
sion.  Following the devaluation this situation will likely reverse.  Export
incomes should rise, backed by the international recovery, but real incomes in
Java could be adversely affected.
11.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 2.6% p.a., equivalent to around 1.5 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
3/   On the basis of the 1971 and 11980 population censuses.



industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total in
1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental employ-
ment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained by
rising oil incomes in the 1970s; and it is unlikely that this pattern of
growth will be repeated in the future. If an adequate growth in labor demand
is to be achieved, it will be necessary to adopt policies specifically
oriented toward employment creation, in addition to restoring overall
growth. In the short-run, the maintenance of employment-intensive public
works activities can make a significant contribution.
12.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in junior
secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of the
population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and
a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued expansion and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be
maintained. Currently, on,y 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population
have access to safe water-/ compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
13.       Even with the comprehensive program of domestic adjustment policies
outlined above, Indonesia will continue to require external capital inflows.
Indeed, during the short-run adjustment period, the maintenance of significant
net inflows will be essential if the adjustment policies are to be smoothly
implemented and without excessive cost to current incomes and the development
process. In 1982/83 the Government was able to use past financial asset
accumulation to help finance the deficit: official reserves declined by
US$3.3 billion and foreign assets of the commercial banks by an additional
US$0.9 billion.  While the reserve cover is still adequate, the scope for
additional drawdown is limited and the bulk of the finance of future deficits
will have to come from medium- and long-term public borrowing.  New
commitments of the order of US$4-5 billion per annum will continue to be
required over the next few years to finance the projected deficits during the
adjustment period. It is reasonable to expect that at least 40% will come
from official development assistance (ODA) - at the June 1983 meeting of the
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia the donors pledged over US$2.2 billion
for 1983/84 - with the remainder from borrowings in the financial markets and
continued use of official and private export credits.
4/   Government estimates fo-r 1981L.



- 6-
14.       Total public debt outstanding at end-1982 was US$18.3 billion, with
an additional US$12 billion of undisbursed commitments. The debt profile is
excellent, with ODA accounting for 54% of the total and no short-term debt;
the average maturity of new commitments was 15 years in 1982. The debt
service ratio rose to 22% of exports, with the oil sector on a net basis, in
1982/83, and is likely to rise somewhat further in 1983/84 and settle at about
25% in the mid-1980s. This is largely a consequence of the decline in antici-
pated export earnings rather than increased borrowing. This debt burden is
high by Indonesia's past standards, but remains within the limits of prudent
debt management. Backed by the effective program of domestic adjustment,
Indonesia should be in a position to raise the required external finance
without undue difficulty.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
15.       As of September 30, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling US$931.8 million, and 82 Bank loans amounting to US$6,127.5 mil-
lion.  IFC investments totalled US$136.8 million.  The share of the Bank Group
in Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1982
was 13.3%, and the share of debt service, 7.9% compared with 11.2% and 7.6%,
respectively, in 1981. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1983. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmigration) i-or employment, food security and
exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have been in this
sector.  In addition, loans and credits havre been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education, urban
development, water supply, rural devejlopment, nutrition, industrial
development financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommuni-
cations, population and technical assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the
expansion of infrastructure and produLction facilities. Special attention was
also given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment stadies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous' plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation.  This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public. services. While Bank lending was
5/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Second
Provincial Irrigation Development Project (No. P-3700-IND), circulated
under cover of R83-378, dated December 20, 1983, and approved by the
Executive Directors on January 10, 1984.



- 7 -
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these prioriti.es.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additioaal domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of len (ing to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. In
addition, in order to ease the Government's current resource constraint and
maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas, we have taken
steps, under the Special Assistance Program, to accelerate disbursements in 17
ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one project each
in the energy and transport sectors. The only significant shift anticipated
in the composition of lending involves a rapid expansion planned in the
education sector, a direct response to the severe shortage of skilled
manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is focused on a
policy to promote industrialization which will build on Indonesia's
comparative advantage in labor- and resource-intensive industries. This
analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which would facilitate
sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued lending is
concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize
pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree crops will
continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance
of these sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated.
Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services, in population,
health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will increasingly
emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative low-cost
solutions.
18.       The last few years have seen major improvements in the disbursement
ratio 6/ from a low of 13% in FY80, to 18% in FY83. The poor FY80 ratio was
in large part merely a resuilt of the rapid increase in commitments during the
FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122%
compared to a Bank wide increase of 83%. However, it also reflected implemen-
tation difficulties arising out of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. The severe shortage of managerial and technical manpower of course
compounds the problem. A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank
to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia
to analyze the problems and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and
6/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-8-
financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and
regular joint review procedures to identify general and project specific
problems and work out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars
were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the maLjor causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board consideration
at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improve-
ments are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements
from US$204.0 million in FY79 to US$582.8 million in FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditwort:hiness following the commodity
and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending
has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's muc:h improved creditworthiness, IDA
lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the sixth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects at an advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Second Swamp Reclamationa, Third
Small Enterprise Development and Fourteenth Power Projects.
PART III - URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Urbanization Trends
21.        Indonesia's urban population was est:imated at 33 million in 1980,
representing 22% of the country's total population of about 150 million.
During the 1970s, cities expanded at about 4% per year, or almost double the
2.3% rate of overall population growth.  The urban population is expected to
continue growing at around 4% per year during the next two decades while the
rate of total population growth declines slightly, resulting in a projected
urban population of 72 million, or 34% of the total, by the year 2000. Urban
growth could reach even higher levels if present demographic and technological
trends in rural Java accelerate, leading to increased permanent and circular
migration to urban areas. During the next five years, about 1.6 million new
urban residents are expected each year. Metropolitan Jakarta (with over 8
million people), Surabaya (2.2 million) and seven other cities with
populations over 500,000 account for almost half of the urban population.
These large and medium-sized cities are likely to continue to absorb the bulk
of urban population growth in the next two decades.



-9-
Urban Services
22.       The magnitude of projected urban population growth presents a major
challenge in terms of employment and services. Despite recent achievements in
reducing the proportion of urban residents with consumption levels below the
urban poverty threshold, more than a quarter of urban residents remain below
the absolute urban poverty threshold (estimated at US$125 per capita per annum
for 1980) and more than three quarters of the urban population remain below
the relative urban poverty threshold (estimated at US$250 per capita per annum
for 1982). Moreover, despite significant progress in the last decade in
improving access to urban services (paragraphs 24-27), urban areas continue to
be characterized by severe deficiencies in essential infrastructure. Nearly
40% of the urban population lack access to a safe, reliable water supply and
obtain water from polluted sources or from vendors at relatively high
prices. Many of Indonesia's principal cities are located in flat, swampy
coastal areas which suffer from poor drainage, tidal inundation, flash floods
and siltation. Drains are often used for household and human waste disposal
as well as for washing and bathing. Only about a third of urban residents
have access to private sanitation facilities with septic tanks or to organized
solid waste collection. These limited services result in unhygienic living
conditions and constitute a serious public health hazard. This situation is
particularly severe in the "kampung" or informal settlement areas - the low-
lying, densely populated neighborhoods that house a large proportion of
Indonesia's urban population.
Sector Organization
23.       Within the central government, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA)
is responsible for local government, and through its Directorate General of
Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) has a central policy role
in the provision of urban services. The Directorate General for Housing,
Building, Planning and Urban Development (Cipta Karya) of the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) is responsible for the technical aspects of most urban
services (water supply, sanitation, drainage, kampung improvement, solid
waste), including the planning and. execution of centrally-funded projects.
The Ministry of Finance and the National Development Planning Board (BAPPENAS)
are concerned with financial and planning aspects of centrally-funded urban
programs. The responsibility for public land and housing development is
vested in the National Urban Development Corporation (PERUMNAS), a parastatal
organization. Provincial governments have not been directly involved in the
provision of urban services (except in Jakarta), although they are responsible
for overseeing the work of local government and in certain cases provide
financial assistance to the cities. Recently, there has been some delegation
of MPW's responsibilities for project execution to provincial branches of the
Ministry. However, the main responsibility for urban services remains with
the second level of local government, i.e., the municipality. The service
departments of the municipal governments, and more specialized local
enterprises (such as water supply entities) are the key agencies involved in
the provision and maintenance of urban services.



- 10
Government Programs and Policies
24.       To improve the conditions described in paragraph 22 above, the
Government's urban programs have focussed primarily on the provision of basic
services. Total investment by all levels of government in urban services
averaged about Rp 285 billion a year (in 1982 prices) during the Third Five-
Year Development Plan or Repelita III (1979-84), equivalent to 0.55% of GDP or
US$11 per urban resident.  The Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) began in
Jakarta in 1969 and has now become a national program reaching more than 200
cities throughout the country. The KIP concept involves the provision of
basic infrastructure - roads, footpaths, water supply, sanitation and social
facilities - to poorly serviced kampungs, with physical standards and
community disruption kept to a minimum. With the success of the Jakarta KIP
and growing popular support, the program accelerated during Repelita II (1974--79)
and Repelita III (1979-1984), during which the program covered 15,000 ha.
Jakarta has now improved almost all of its worst kampung areas housing 3 mil-
lion people, and Surabaya is more than halfway through its program of
upgrading infrastructure for about 800,000 residents. In order to expand the
program to the national level, the government has established a scheme which
provides central government grants to cities for planning and implementation
of investments executed by Cipta Karya. Many of the larger cities have
obtained additional funds to expand the coverage or level of services, pri-
marily through foreign loans and grants. KIP is widely regarded as a success-
ful program which has improved conditions in the kampungs at a reasonable cost
per hectare and per resident and is considered replicable. Furthermore, there
appears to have been only a limited turnover in the populations of the KIP
areas, as a result of related increases in property values. Recent studies on
the impact of KIP in several cities (Jakarta, Ujung Pandang, Cirebon, Surabaya
and Surakarta) reinforce these conclusions.
25.       In conjunction with the expansion of KIP, the Government also began
to focus attention during Rlepelita III on the broader problems of drainage,
solid waste collection and disposal, and sanitation or sewerage. In view of
the location of many Indonesian cities in low-lying coastal areas, flooding is
not confined to kampung areas and constitutes a city-wide problem. Moreover,
it is increasingly recognized that KIP services may not be fully effective in
the absence of complementary improvements in primary and secondary
infrastructure. During Repelita III, improvements in drainage and solid waste
collection were initiated in a few of the larger cities. In addition, pilot
sewerage improvement projects were begun in Jak.rta and Bandung. However,
annual investments in drainage, solid waste and human waste disposal during
Repelita III were relatively small, and much remains to be done to improve
environmental sanitation in urban areas.
26.       With regard to urban water supply, considerable progress was made
during Repelita III due to the "Basic Needs Appproach" adopted by the
Government, which provided piped water to some 8.6 million people in 460 towns
and cities. The program aimed at serving 60% of the urban population with an
average of 60 liters per capita per day. The largest portion (more than 30%)
of urban investments in Repelita III was devoted to water supply, and overall
access to clean water increased by 50% during the period.



- 11 -
27.       In addition to the infrastructure programs described above, the
Government developed a program of serviced sites to accommodate some of the
growth of the urban population. TMough this program remains quite modest in
relation to overall needs, the National Urban Development Corporation
(PERUMNAS) has steadily increased its capabilities, raising its output from
70,000 units under Repelita II to an estimated 120,000 units under Repelita
III. Most of these units, ha]f of which are serviced sites, are affordable by
low-income families.  In addition, the National Savings Bank (Bank Tabungan
Negara), designated by the Government as the key financial intermediary in the
housing sector, has provided mortgage finance for more than 90,000 units built
by private developers.
Urban Sector Issues
28.       The Government achieved a significant expansion of urban services
during Repelita III, and intends to continue this trend l Repelita IV, while
addressing a number of sectoral issues.  These issues, which are to be
discussed fully in the forthcoming Urban Services Sector Report, include the
following:
(a)  Basic KIP programs need to be complemented by investment in citywide
infrastructure (particularly, drainage and solid waste), and the
large and medium-sized cities in particular need to develop
integrated urban development programs;
(b)  In order for local government to play a more prominent role in
implementing urban programs (which have largely been executed by
central authorities), local project planning and implementation
capacity needs to be strengthened;
(c)  Because central government funds are presently more limited than
during the recent period of high oil revenues, the administrative
efficiency of municipal (and provincial) governments needs to be
strengthened, part-icularly in the areas of financial planning,
programming and management; and
(d)  Local governments need to finance a greater share of their invest-
ments with local resources; hence, locally generated revenues need
to be augmented to finance urban services, and inter-governmental
fiscal relationships need to be clarified and streamlined.
The proposed project has been desi'gned to assist the Government in achieving
progress in these areas.
Bank Sector Lending Strategy, Rati'onale and Past Experience
29.       Bank lending in the urban sector has been aimed at helping the
Government to plan and implement an expanded program of basic services. In
particular, the Bank has assisted GOI in formulating its overall program and
policies for the sector. The present project would serve as a vehicle for the
Bank's continued dialogue with the Government and contribute to the develop-
ment of sector lending for basic urban services. In particular, it would



- 12 -
establish more effective mechanisms for implementing urban investments by:
(a) facilitating field implementation through clearer definition of the res-
pective roles of central and local governments; (b) streamlining project
funding arrangements and maximizing the fiscal responsibility of local
governments in executing urban projects; and (c) strengthening local govern-
ments as well as key central agencies, such as Cipta Karya and PUOD.
Eventually, it is hoped that the Bank will be able to lend indirectly for
urban services through Cipta Karya and PUOD, or through a single entity, such
as a Municipal Development Board, which would appraise and supervise municipal
investment proposals.
30.        Since 1974, the Bank has supported the Government's programs of
kampung improvement, water supply and sanitation, and low-income sites and
services housing through four loans for urban development (Loans 1040, 1336,
1653 and 1972-IND amounting to $174.5 million), one loan for sewerage and
sanitation (Loan 2236-IND for $22.4 million) ancd three loans for water supply
(Loans 1049, 1709 and 2275-IND amounting to $80.6 million). The first two
urban projects and the first water supply project are now completed (with a
satisfactory implementation experience) and the third urban project is nearing
completion. A key difficulty faced in previous projects, where the central
government is heavily involved in financing and execution of the programs, has
been the overly centralized implementation structure and resulting ineffi-
ciencies. Measures are proposed in the present project in implementation and
flow-of-funds arrangements to minimize these problems. The Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report (Sec M83-756, July 21, 1983) for the first urban project,
the Jakarta Urban Development Project (Loan 1040-IND), highlighted deficien-
cies in the operation and maintenance of certain facilities (particularly the
public toilets and water taps). Experience has indicated that these problems
can be substantially reduced through active community participation and
routine monitoring of the facilities. Maintenance is also a general problem
in most cities due to insufficiently trained staff and inadequate funding,
organization and management. The municipal management and technical assis-
tance programs under the proposed project would address some of these
problems. The audit report on the first urban project also commented on the
low level of direct cost recovery for the KIP program under that project.
However, Government thinking, supported by Bank experience in Indonesia and
elsewhere in the Region, has placed increasing emphasis on indirect cost
recovery for basic urban infrastructure investments through increases in
general local revenues (particularly the propert:y tax). Given the need to
provide basic urban services, while at the same time removing weaknesses in
the local taxation system, the proposed project would continue past efforts to
improve municipal revenue through technical assistance. Under the Third Urban
Development Project, the Bank supported improvements in property tax collec-
tion in Surabaya, focussing specifically on improved assessment methodology,
documentation, cadastral surveys and training of land valuers, A more recent
study, initiated in November 1983 undler the Fourthi Urban Development Project,
will review existing tax and revenue structures in six cities and propose
revisions in their assessment and collection mechanisms.  Local resource
mobilization will remain an important long-range goal of Bank involvement in
the sector,  (For a further discussion of cost recovery issues, see paragraphs
47-48 below.)



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.       The main beneficiaries of the proposed project - Surabaya, Semarang,
Surakarta and Ujung Pandang - are among the ten largest cities in Indonesia
after Jakarta. With a combined population of about 4.5 million, these four
cities comprise about 25% of the total population in the top ten cities. They
were chosen because of their importance as provincial capitals or economic
growth centers and the need to expand the basic urban services programs initi-
ated there under the Third Urban Development Project (Loan 1653-IND).  The
physical components of the projecit were prepared by Cipta Karya during the
period September 1981 - July 1983, in consultation with the cities, and with
the assistance of consultants financed under the Third Urban Development Pro-
ject. The preparation of complementary municipal management programs was
undertaken with the involvement of PUOD and the Ministry of Finance.
32.       Appraisal of the project took place in July/August 1983.  A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4887-IND) is being distributed separately.  Supplemen-
tary data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Jakarta from
March 12 to March 16, 1984; the GOI delegation was led by Mr. Soenarjono
Danoedjo, the Director General of Housing, Building, Planning and Urban
Development in the Ministry of Public Works.
Project Objectives
33.       The project would have the following objectives:  (a) continue the
improvement of basic urban services in the predominantly low-income neighbor-
hoods, or kampungs, of the four project cities and provide complementary solid
waste and drainage infrastructure; (b) strengthen municipal administration in
the project cities, by impro-ving financial planning, budgeting and management,
as well as operation and maintenance of infrastructure; and (c) augment the
capacity for local resource mobilization through improved collection of land
tax revenues (primarily the property tax) and levying of service charges for
solid waste collection.
Project Components
34.       The project would consist of the following components:
(a) Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) (Base Cost - US$19.7 million).
This program would provide basic infrastructure such as roads,
footpaths, water supply, minor drainage, sanitation, and schools and
health facilities in 2,430 ha of low-income neighborhoods;
(b) Solid Waste Improvement Program (SWIP) (Base Cost - US$5.7 mil-
lion). This component would expand and improve city-wide solid
waste collection, transportation and disposal facilities in the
residential and market areas of the four project cities, with parti-
cular emphasis on improvements in the KIP areas;



- 14 --
(c)  Drainage Improvement Program (DRIP) (Base Cost - US$18.2 million).
The program would involve the rehabilitation of the primary,
secondary, and tertiary drainage networks in the cities of Surabaya,
Semarang and Ujung Pandang, as a means of flood-relief in the low-
lying kampung and commercial areas, as well as the establishment of
improved citywide drainage operation and maintenance practices (pre-
investment studies for similar works in Surakarta have not been
completed);
(d) Municipal Management Improvement: Programs (Base Cost - US$2.1 mil-
lion). These would develcip improved practices and training in
(i) financial planning, budgeting, accounting and management
(200 man-months); (ii) administration of operation and maintenance
programs for city-wide infrastructure and cost recovery for solid
waste collection (167 man-months); and (iii) tax assessment and
other revenue collection (66 man-months);
(e) Technical Assistance (Base. Cost - US$3.7 million). This would
include: (i) engineering, management and advisory services to the
project implementing units; at the city level (144 man-months),
project management units at the provincial level (216 man-months),
and to Cipta Karya (24 man-months) and financial services for the
auditing of project accounts; (ii) strengthening of Cipta Karya's
project preparation capacity (36 man-months); and (iii) pre-invest-
ment and feasibility studies for future projects (300 man-months).
Implementation Arrangements
35.       The project would be implemented over five and a half years - from
April 1, 1984 to December 31, 1989. Detailed engineering of KIP for the first
year (1984-85) was completed in December 1.983 and tenders for this work will
be issued in July 1984.  Detailed design cf SWIP and DRIP components for the
first year is now completed and scheduled for tendering in September 1984,
following completion of requisite contract; documentation.  Land acquisition
arrangements and related relocation programs for DRIP were reviewed during
negotiations. The implementation of' the physical components would be
facilitated by the following three-tier organizational scheme:
(a) At the city level, field implementatiDn of KIP, SWIP, and DRIP would
be the responsibility of each Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
irrespective of the funding sources involved, and would be coordin-
ated through a Project Coordinat:or. The Project Coordinator would
run the Project Finance Of'fice (PFO) which would maintain project
accounts; he would report to the Mayor on project progress and would
be responsible to the provincial. Project Management Unit (PMU) on
day-to-day implementation matters.
(b) At the provincial level, responsibility for management of
implementation activities - including coordinated program planning
for KIP, SWIP and DRIP schemes, annual budgeting of capital works
and project progress monitoring - would be vested in the PMUs at the



- 15 -
provincial branch offices of MPW,  The Chief of the PMU would report
through the branch office head to the provincial Governor and to the
Director General of Cipta Karya on matters relating to project
planning and management ..
(c)  At the central level, policy guidance and supervision of technical
standards, consultant selection and overall project monitoring would
continue to remain with Cipta Karya, supported by PUOD.
36.       The existing KIP units, which have been functioning satisfactorily
under the Third Urban Development Project, would be maintained at their
current staff levels. Project implementation units for SWIP and DRIP would be
established by July 31, 1984 within the respective sectoral departments of
the local governments (Public Works and Cleansing Departments), and would be
identical to Surabaya's existing SWIP and DRIP units, formed under the Third
Urban Development Project.  The staffing of the DRIP uni.s would be
strengthened with personnel seconded from the Cipta Karya s provincial and
branch offices.  The PFOs would consist mainly of financial personnel.  The
design of the project accounting system to be installed at the PFOs was
started in mid-December 1983, wit'l assistance from consultants hired under the
Third Urban Development Project. The above system would become operational in
the project cities by July 31, 1984, and the PFO staff would be adequately
trained in the system during the interim period. The PMU in each project
province (East Java, Central Java and South Sulawesi) would be composed of
three engineering staff, one of wfhom would act as Chief of the unit. The PMUs
would be established within the existing branch offices of the Ministry of
Public Works. In addition to carrying out project management responsibili-
ties, the PMUs would supervise the proper upkeep and timely auditing of the
project accounts at the PFOs. Staffing requirements of the PMUs would be met
through the secondment of suitably experienced personnel from Cipta Karya's
central and provincial offices. The PIUs, PMUs and PFOs would be established
and adequately staffed, and the Project Coordinators and PMU Chiefs would be
appointed, by July 31, 1984 (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The PMUs would prepare and furnish to the Bank, through Cipta Karya, not later
than four months prior to the end of each fiscal year, the proposed annual
program and financing plan for all works to be undertaken in the KIP, SWIP and
DRIP components of the project during the following fiscal year; the first
such work program and financing plan would be submitted not later than
November 30, 1984 (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.       The administration. of the municipal management programs would be the
responsibility of PUOD, in coordination with the Ministry of Finance and the
local governments. They would be assisted by financial and public administra-
tion consultants who would carry out the studies in the field.  The terms of
reference for these studies and a schedule for the appointment of consultants
were reviewed and agreed during negotiations. It is anticipated that the key
findings of the municipal management studies would become available for review
beginning in late 1.985 and that FUOD, in consultation with the project cities,
would begin to implement the agreed recommendations of the studies in the 1986
and 1987 fiscal years (see paras. 46-48 below). Technical assistance would be
managed by Cipta Karya, which has experience in supervising consultants under
earlier Bank-financed urban projects. The terms of reference for this assis-



- 16 -
tance and the schedule for consultants' selection were reviewed and agreed
during negotiations.
Project Costs and Financing
38.        The total project cost is estimated at US$64.4 million (inclusive of
taxes and the front-end fee) with a foreign exchange component of about 38% or
about US$25.1 million.  Taxes are estimated at US$1.1 million.  Costs are
based on advanced preliminary and detailed engineering designs for the physi-
cal aspects and on the estimated consultant manpower requirements for the
municipal management and technical assistance aspects of the project.  Base
costs are expressed in January 1984 prices, and escalated for (i) a physical
contingency factor of up to 15% for SWIP a;:d DRI.P components (no physical
contingencies are provided for the KELP component since the volume of works and
the standards for KIP are governed by a target unit price per ha agreed for
each city); and (ii) price contingencies assumed as 12% in 1984, 10% in 1985-
87, 9% in 1988 and 7% in 1989-90 for local costs; and 3.5% in 1984, 8% in
1985, 9% in 1986-88, 7.5% in 1989 and 6% in 199C for foreign costs.  Require-
ments for consulting services are estimated at 433 man-months (347 local and
86 foreign) for the municipal managernent programrs and 720 man-months (588 local
and 132 foreign) for technical assist-ance. Consulting services, about a third
of which would involve association of local firms with foreign individuals and
firms, are based on an average professional man-month cost of $11,000 for
foreign consultants and US$3,500 for local consultants. The total estimated
cost of consulting services includes provision for local transportation,
vehicles and equipment and office space.
39.        The proposed Bank loan of US$39.25 million would finance 60% of
project costs, including the total foreign exchange requirements (US$25.1.
million) and front-end fee (US$0.1 million), and about 36% of the local costs
(US$1.4.1 million).  The Bank loan would be made to the Government of Indonesia
for a period of 20 years, including five years' grace, at the standard
variable interest rate. Part of the loan proceeds (US$10.5 million) would be
retained by the Central Government for financing the municipal management pro-
grams, technical assistance services,, detai led design and engineering of the
DRIP components and a portion of the drainage construction costs in Ujung
Pandang. The remaining portion of the Bank loan (US$28.7 million) would be
relent to the four project cities and. the provincial government of South
Sulawesi (which wishes to share in the repaLyment obligations of the city of
Ujung Pandang) for a period identical. to that of the Bank loan. The interest
rate of the subsidiary loans would be fixec  at 10%.  The above on-lending rate
is considered appropriate in the light of the social and institutional
development objectives of the project. Execution of satisfactory subsidiary
loan agreements between the GovernmenLt, the project cities and the provincial
government of South Sulawesi would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the draft Loan AIgreement). The Government's
contribution to the project of US$25.2 million would include Cipta Karya
grants (US$7.2 million), provincial government grants (US$4.8 million), and
cities' contributions (US$13.2 million).  Assurances were obtained from the
Government at negotiations that Cipta. Karya, and the local governments would
make their funds available in a timely manner for project implementation
(Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
40.       Flow of Grant Funds.  Under the third and fourth Bank-assisted urban
projects, GOI's grant funds for KIP programs were channelled through as many
as three or four budgetary allocations of Cipta Karya. This resulted in the
involvement of a similar number of project implementation units in the field
and the consequent fragmentation of responsibilities among these units and the
locally established KIP units in the cities. A similar situation existed with
regard to the provision of provincial government grants for KIP, which
resulted in a less-than-efficient field execution of KIP. To overcome these
problems in the utilization of grant funds which constitute about 24% of the
total KIP program, the following measures would be taken by Cipta Karya and
PUOD under the proposed project: (i) all Cipta Karya grants would be pooled
in a single budgetary source; (ii) all provincial government funds would be
channelled directly to the city budget as a financial grant; and (iii) project
implementation responsibilities would be delegated to the city level,
irrespective of the funding source. The above arrangements for KIP - as well
as the DRIP component - should greatly facilitate project execution.
Procurement and Disbursement
41.       Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in the Table
below:
Type of Procurement
Prudent                  Total
Project item                  ICB       LCB        shopping      Other        cost
----------------- ($ million) ------------------
Civil works                      -      37.8            -         2.9         40.7
(KIP, SWIP and DRIP)                   (22.9)                      (-)       (22.9)
Vehicles and Equipment         5.6       2.1          0.3           -          8.0
(SWIP and DRIP)               (5.6')    (1.2)        (0.2)          -         (7.0)
Municipal management
improvement services           -         -            -         2.7          2.7
(2.7)       (2.7)
DRIP Engineering Design and
Technical Assistance           -         -            -         6.6          6.6
(6.6)       (6.6)
Total                      5.6     39.9           0.3       12.2         58.0
(5.6)   (24.1)        (0.2)       (9.3)       (39.2)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.



- 18 -
42.       As under previous projects, the construction of Bank-assisted civil
works for KIP, SWIP and DRIP (US$37.8 million) would be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures of the Government, which have
been found satisfactory to the Bank. Past exper"ience indicates that foreign
firms are not generally interested in bidding on these types of works because
of (i) the scattered location of the project sites (about 150 in total);
(ii) the large number of small contracts (about 300 in total) and their rela-
tively short duration; ancl (iii) the competition from the relatively well-
established local contracting industry. Vehicles and equipment for solid
waste disposal and drainage (US$5.6 milliDn) would be procured through inter-'
national competitive bidding (ICB), in aczordance with the Bank's guidelines
for procurement, and they would be grouped, whenever possible, into contracts
of US$200,000 or higher. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and taxes, whichever
is less, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Contracts of less than
US$200,000 in value involving minor equipment, such as hand carts and bins
(US$1.6 million) for solid waste collection and maintenance tools (US$0.5 mil-
lion) for drainage, would be purchased through LCB procedures. For equipment
of less than US$50,000 per contract, prudent shopping would be permitted on
the basis of at least three price quotations, up to an aggregate limit of
US$200,000. Consultants' services for municipal management and technical
assistance programs would be obtained in accordlance with Bank guidelines.
43.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) for civil works - 65% of total expenditures; (b) for equipment and
vehicles - 100% of foreign expenditures (c.i.f.,); 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory); and 65% of other local expenditures; and (c) for consultants'
services - 100% of total expenditures.  Withdrawal applications under
disbursement categories (a) and (b) above, for reimbursement against civil
works contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent, and goods and
equipment costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, would be made against
Statements of Expenditures. Supporting documentation and contracts in such
cases would be retained by the respective executing agencies and made
available to Bank supervision missions. Approximately US$300,000 in civil
works expenditures which were incurred in the cities of Surakarta and Semarang
after December 1, 1983 would be financed retroactively under the loan
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Loan Agreement). These expenditures
were undertaken to facilitate an early start of the KIP components in those
cities.
44.       Following the historical disbursement profiles of similar
Bank-financed projects in Indonesia and allowing for adjustments to reflect
project-specific conditions, it is projected that the proposed loan would be
disbursed over six years, beginning in July 1984. The proposed closing date
of the loan would be December 31, 1990.
Accounts and Audits
45.       Project accounting systems would be maintained by Cipta Karya, PUOD
and the project cities. Project accounts for each city would include:
(a) all financial transactions related to KIP, SWIP and DRIP contracts funded
from various sources; (b) land acquisition and compensation costs; and



- 19 -
(c) administration costs.  In this connection, consultants have been appointed
to prepare project accounting systems and train the nominated staff by
June 30, 1984. Ihe PEOs in the project cities would be responsible to
maintain accounts and prepare consolidated financial statements under the
overall supervision of the PMIJs. Financial records for consultants' expendi-
tures would be similarly mainl:ainec[ at the respective financial offices of
Cipta Karya and PUTOD. Cipta Karya would also prepare consolidated annual pro-
ject account summaries for alL project expenditures incurred in the previous
fiscal year and submit these to the Bank. All project accounts, including
documentation for Statements of Expenditures, would be subject to annual
audits by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and appointed by Cipta
Karya. The terms of reference for project audits were discussed with the
Government during negotiations.  The cost of audits wqould be financed from the
proceeds of the proposed loan. Assurances were obtained from the government
at negotiations trat (i) all executing agencies (Cipta Ka--a, PUOD, and the
project cities) would maintain satisfactory project accounts; that (ii) Cipta
Karya would submit to the Bank certified copies of audited project accounts of
the cities and technical assistance programs in consolidated form no later
than nine months after the end of each fiscal year, commencing from FY84; and
that (iii) PUOD would submit to the Bank in a similar manner certified copies
of the audited annual expenditure accounts for the municipal management pro-
grams (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
46.       The primary responsibility for operating and maintaining the project
assets - and city-wide infrastructure in general - lies with the concerned
municipality. As in the past, the operation and maintenance of the public
taps and sanitation facilities in the kampungs would be the responsibility of
the local community. Improvements to the city-wide infrastructure maintenance
under the project would be focussed in the following areas: (a) strengthening
of service departments, particularly in the areas of inventorying city-wide
infrastructure, work scheduling, budgeting and administration (to be carried
out under the auspices of the Operation and Maintenance studies); (b) provi-
sion of equipment (under the SWIP and DRIP programs) to facilitate routine
maintenance; and (c) on-the-job training of the city staff and managers in
these areas. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, as a part of
the operations and maintenance studies, the Covernment would (a) furnish to
the Bank for comments, by July 31, 1986, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, the funding requirements for an adequate operation and maintenance
program for infrastructure in the project cities; and (b) promptly thereafter,
furnish to the Bank for comments a five-year budgetary plan, commencing April
1, 1987, for the carrying out of such a program (Section 3.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
47,       At present, the development costs incurred by municipalities are
primarily financed from central transfers, mostly grants, and not recovered
directly from beneficiaries, with the exception of some individual municipal
services, such as water supply and solid waste (e.g., the Surabaya component
of the Bank financed Second Water Supply Project, Ln. 1709-IND), where charges



- 20 -
to beneficiaries are applied.  Following the practice established under past
projects, the KIP and DRIP components wou:Ld be financed from general municipal
revenues and grants from central and provincial governments.  Direct cost
recovery for these components is neiLther appropriate nor feasible due to:
(a) the routine provision of similar services for higher income neighborhoods
without direct charges; (b) the "public good" characteristics of the proposed
drainage investments and the associated d:ifficulty in identifying individual
beneficiaries; (c) the unclear land tenure situation prevailing in the
kampungs, which precludes direct plot charges in the absence of a major
cadastral and registration effort; and (d) the high cost of collection, which
would in many cases exceed the revenues generated. An important aspect of the
argument in favor of direct levies on beneficiaries rests on the desire to
ensure that the program can be sustained over the long term so that the
services can be provided to all kampung areas.  The Government would continue
to address this issue as under the past urban projects by: (a) an explicit
focus on the standards employed with the aim of keeping these at a minimum
level consistent with achieving the health objectives of the project; and
(b) ensuring that the local resources would be adequately mobilized - particu-
larly through improvements in municipal revenues - to pay for projected city-
wide developments over the medium-term. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Government would cause the project cities to increase
their income from both local revenues and the national real property tax by an
average of not less than 5% each per annum in real terms beginning in the
Government's fiscal year starting April 1, 1984 and ending in the fiscal year
starting April 1, 1988 (Section 4.0^3 of the draft Loan Agreement). Such
income would be sufficient to allow the cities to cover their capital contri-
butions to the proposed works as well as improve the operation and maintenance
of citywide services. Technical assistanc.e provided under the project would
be designed to improve assessment and collection measures in project cities to
ensure that: (a) properties are registered and revalued regularly; (b) rates
are set and applied appropriately; and (c) tax collection is intensified.
These efforts would enable the cities to capture some of the increment in
property values resulting from infrastructural improvements throughout the
city, including those provided under the present project.
48.        Regarding the solid waste component (SWIP), municipal authorities
currently levy direct charges for market a.reas and high income residential
properties that are directly served by the city fleet (with charges for the
latter ranging from Rp 500 to Rp 2,500 per household per month). For most
kampung areas, however, municipal authorities only transport solid wastes from
collection points to the disposal site and no fees are charged for this.
Solid waste collection in these areas is typica:Lly organized by residents
through local community organizations. Residents make monthly contributions
(typically ranging from Rp 100 to Rp 500 per hoasehold per month) to these
organizations, covering not only solid waste collection but other social ser-
vices as well. Local governments do not keep separate accounts for solid
waste operations and accounting practices are generally quite deficient.
Estimates derived from available accounts indicate that revenues from direct
charges cover only about half of total annual costs to the municipality, with
the remainder financed from general revenues. :For the areas covered by SWIP,
it is estimated that average charges would have to increase from the current
Rp 1,200-6,000 to about Rp 6,000-8,000 per household per year in order to



- 21 -
recover the investment costs of the SWIP component. Since this level of
charges would not be affordab:Le by low-income households, various possibili-
ties for cross-subsidization need to be explored.  In addition, some public
financing may be justified due to the externalities associated with solid
waste collection (the whole community may suffer if collection does not take
place). Nevertheless, there is considerable scope for improving the current
system of charges, streamlining and intensifying collection efforts and
introducing better accounting practices. Consultants' assistance provided
under the PUOD-administered municipal management studies would focus attention
in these areas by setting up separate accounts for solid waste operations and
determining the most appropriate system of charges. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that by September 30, 1985, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, the Government wouLd furnish the results of the solid waste
recovery study to the Bank for comments and, based on the recommendations of
the study and the comments of the Bank, promptly introduce a program of cost
recovery in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Justification and Risks
49.       The KIP investments under the project would directly benefit about
760,000 residents in the four project cities. Using as a measure of benefits
the increased rental values resulting from infrastructure improvements, econo-
mic rates of return for this component range from 15% to 41% in the project
cities. The Drainage Improvement Program (DRIP) would minimize the risks of
periodic flooding, which causes property damage as well as illness and loss of
life in three cities. Since reliable estimates of damage control due to
drainage improvements are difficult to obtain, increased rental values in the
affected areas were used as a proxy measure of the environmental and health
benefits of this component. The economic rates of return range from 15% to
23%. The Solid Wastes Improvement Program (SWIP) would extend organized
refuse collection to about 1.1 million people (including those in the KIP
areas) at a modest cost of US$5 per capita. In addition to contributing
directly to the control of filth-borne diseases, the effective collection and
disposal of solid waste would reduce the risks and costs associated with the
clogging of the drainage channels. Although the separate benefits of SWIP
were not quantified, the joint impact of DRIP and SWIP was tested through
sensitivity analysis of the DRIP component. The municipal management and
technical assistance components of the project would enhance the planning,
implementation and management capacity of municipal authorities and augment
local revenue generation. By strenigthening the local role in the provision
and financing of urban services, this project component would contribute to
the increased devolution of responsibility from the central to the local
levels. In addition, management assistance to central agencies which are
closely linked to urban services (Cipta Karya and PUOD) would strengthen their
capabilities. The weighted average rate of return for the KIP and DRIP compo-
nents (for which benefits were quantified and which represent 75% of project
costs) is 24%.
50.       Project impact on employment and poverty is expected to be signifi-
cant. The physical components of the project would provide an estimated
19,000 man-years of direct employment (largely for semi-skilled and unskilled



- 22 -
labor) during construction, and an additional 400 man-years of employment per
year related to operation and maintenance. Because most project components
focus primarily on low-income urban neighborhoods, the proportion of project
benefits accruing to the urban poor would be high. Of the estimated 760,000
beneficiaries under KIP, at least 70% are like:Ly to have incomes below the
urban relative poverty threshold (estimated at US$250 per capita for 1982).
The DRIP and SWIP components would benefit not only the KIP areas but also an
additional 400,000 people, of which a substantial proportion are likely to
have incomes below the poverty level. Overall, it is estimated that at least
50% of total project expenditures would benefil the urban poor.
51.       The principal risks of the project lie in:  (i) the untested super-
vision capacity of PUOD in the implementation of the municipal management
studies with wide-ranging goals, and (ii) the possible implementation delays
for the drainage programs in Semarang and Ujung Pandang, which have not
undertaken such work previously. To minimize the first risk, the
implementation of the municipal management studieBs would be carried out under
the close supervision of a Technical Steering Committee composed of
representatives from PUOD, Cipta Karya, Directorate General of Taxation
(Ministry of Finance) and the local governments. This committee would closely
monitor the conduct of the study by consultants, review their findings and
oversee the implementation of the recommended programs in the cities. The
risk concerning the implementation of DRIP in Semarang and Ujung Pandang stems
from the lack of experience of the drainage divisions in these cities in
managing large-scale capital works programs. The implementation capacity of
the drainage project units in these cities wouLd be augmented by personnel
seconded from Cipta Karya's provincial and branch offices, with supplemental
assistance provided by the design and supervision consultants. The above
measure should be adequate in minimizing the rilsk of delays in implementing
the drainage schemes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The execution of satisfactory subsidiary loan agree-
ments between the Government, the project cities and the Provincial Government
of South Sulawesi would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Other
special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 19, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-24--                                                     ANNEX  I
Page I of 5 pages
INDONESIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) 7a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCEO¶E
1 9 60 G  _11 1970_  ESTIMAT/L            ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EN)
TOTAL                                 1919.3        1919.3       1919.3
AGRICULTURAL                           266.0         307.1        3127.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                        90.0        150.0        530.0               1028.6                      2088.2
ENERGY CONSUMlPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         129.0         143.0        266.0                792.8                      1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATTON,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   94680.0    116201.0    149451.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           14.6          17.1         20.6                 32.9                        65.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 2!15.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                    399.5
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2140
POP'ULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           49.3          60.5         76.2               .!60.7                        35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRE. LAND               355.9        378.4         461.2               1696.5                        93.2
POPULATION AGE STRLUIITRE (3)
0-14 YRS                             40.7         44.0          39.8                 39.4                        40.1
15-64 YES                             56.2         53.4          57.1                 57. 2                       55.8
65 AND ABOVE                           3.1           2.5          3.1                  3.3                         4.1
POPULATION GROWTE RATE (I)
TOTAL                                  2.1           2.0          2.3                  2.3                         2.3
LRBAN                                  1.7           3.6          4.u                  3.9                         3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)            45.8          40.7         34.6                 31.3                        31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            22.5          17.2         13.1                  9.6                         8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8          2.7          2.2                  2.0                         2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                ..        181.1       3051.0
USERS (D OP MARRIED WOMEN)               ..          0.2         36.0                 46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                           93.0         102.0        122.0                125.2                       113.0
PEE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (T OF REQUIREMENTS)          86.0          94.0        110.0                114.2                       111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              38.0         42.0          49.0                 57.9                        67.9
OF l'HICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            6.0           6.0          7.0/c               14.1                        34.1
ZHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             22.9          16.9         13.7                  7.6                         5.3
BEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            41.2         47.3         53.5                 60.2                        64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          149.9        120.9         105.0                 68.1                        62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                                3.0         23.0                 37.1                        64.8
URBAN                                    ..         10.0         41.0                 54.8                        77.8
RURAL                                    . .         1.0         18.0                 26.4                        44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
Cl OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                               15.0         23.0                 41.4                        54.6
URBAN                                               09.0         20.0                 47.5                        69.8
RURAL                                               14.0         24.0                 33.4                        29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             46780.0      26510.0       11530.0               7771.9                      1776.0
POP. FER NURSING PERSON               4510.0/f    7680.0         2300.0               2462.6                      1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1360.0        1650.0       1610.0/d             1047.2                       477.0
URBAN                                250.0            *-        700.0/d              651.1                       667.5
RURAL                                    ..                    1160.07d             2591.9                      1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..         22.4/e               27.0                        27.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4          4.8
URBAN                                  4.9           5.3
RURAL                                  4.3           4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                                 1.5
URBAN                                    ..          1.6
RURAL                                                1.5
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL
URBAN
RURAL
-- --- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- -- - --- - -- - -- - -- - --_ -__ _ _ -   -___ -- - - - -- ---   -- - - - - - - - - - - - - ---- - - --- - - -- - - -- - - - - -- - - - - -- - - _ _   _       _ 



-25-                                                        ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
196/b   1970/lb  RECENT Eb          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
19 - 1970-  ESTIMATE-       ASIA & PACIFIC        LAT. AMiERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      71.0         77.0         98.0               101.2                       105.0
HALE                      86.0         83.0        104.0               106.0                       106.3
FEMALE                    58.0         71.0         91.0                97.5                       103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       6.0         15.0         28.0                44.9                        40.0
MALE                      10.0         20.0         33.0                 50.0                       38.6
FEMALE                     3.0         10.0         22.0                44.6                        41.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)             20.4         22.1         15.5                 18.5                       34.0
PUPIL-TEACliER RATIO
PRIMIARY                              39.0         29.0         34.0                 32.7                       30.7
SECONDARY                             14.0         13.0         16.0                 23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (7.)                39.0         56.6         62.0/g               72.9                       79.5
CONSUtPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              1.1          2.1          3.8/_                9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             7.2         21.9         42.4                113.7                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.1          0.8          9.6                 50.1                      108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                11.0           ..         17.7/d               54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          2.8           ..          0.8/c                3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            34791.0      41090.0      53604.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      27.8         30.9         29.2                 33.6                       24.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 75.0         66.0         55.0                 50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     8.0         10.0         15.0                 19.2                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.7         35.4         35.9                 38.6                       31.3
MALE                                  54.2         49.5         51.1                 50.7                       49.8
FEMALE                                20.0         21.6         20.8                 26.6                       14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.2          1.3          1.2                  1.1                        1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         23.5/d               22.2
HlGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         49.47W               48.0
LOWEST 20N OF HOUSEHiOLDS               ..           ..          6.6jd                6.4
LOWEST 407 OF HOUSEHiOLDS               ..           ..         14.4/d               15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        136.0/g              194.5                      289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        112.0/g              155.0                      184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        119.0/g              178.0                      519.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..         98.O7               164.8                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7.)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         28.0/g               24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         51.0/g               41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Lnless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1978.
May 1983



- 26 -                                                                    ANNEX i
DEF_I___ O   SOIA   I_I".R                                                         Page           3      of        S    pages
toes'P  a          A           lf                             .dNI  lthough the data are fre   reene g..1   ...    erealy jugd"h"I a  eInIrtIs and rell-rle, it tIi    lnI.e onr-d rhan thny ncr ne  be intern.. i-tl
descibe ender- IF nagnidend,  Id irte  treds, aed  hatachelee  -ertin  ..aJer diff-reece   h.ta.                 cntist_
Theretreenre   rnapserelllnen....r.....ygreclcIthaandjscocen--yaedl(2) aeeciryren                              --tennshahigheneeagineeaec-anbece--trygrnpefnhe
anieereety  (ncptto  "Hghm              OI"L  TepIrter` greon chars 'Middle Inr.ealrtarc   -dnidtTc"ircetcneo   tigrsroclou
af Ie'ial.T  the refete... gnet.c data she ettae       rarepepolanlcenighted  -elth-e Iceastnec   idctradaen enly. Ifn a- (ric  of ea ns- rie- in
g,eftnsrsq..dpy)yte   t h.y.ldier- repul-nco  dialle   1r eech I of pru                                                                                                            - Lc
Intel -fatal urfars aea compising  lnd  grtaand inlnd,natead1961,physicIns-cfcailie  'nc af rdalaeal  rhel a  c_ietity                                               h,e
fe drp,ynee ,_fd        -Plte l een   dlren ga-dee  rd telied   t-in; 19id,                     erigaala s
1979 and 1991 data.                                                                                tec-tio   e              He1na    s -tdil   rhc  end       beu   Pplnon sn
ef                                                                  1:_N-Jg~~~~~~~~~~~ehe,an   cri  dinecrbs tan   ra ipertic   tce  ofye bsInn  bd
prl' APrynar           GNPlodlgoie,eneeate    otra1sedhde-n'la                                          assstat,  len   sdace, yen.nicotec-aioannnain
IdhI,    l, aed  991 fan., -<than1 -                                                                   hospeItaI     cd   loapinpe/aaa   ttias,f n   ea
tea,                                                  -        4 l~~~~'epies,Itl  rrae    eapni  and neIca  end, otaerir  entrs
data.                                                                                              finsbilsitutdiade   gpab   oehe  cfhd
retld     ppaetln b-aa edleetnd-her srra  t  an  frtiityth  honetldto,sttisica   prposa
Irjetiepraeea foreert               .., taersranhhe                                      crgernscjtospttnndil ebn   n   aalcrgnse
r     AhLnnse   etls    e   anlt    res  e    rjcierree.e   oa,cir   o  rnAISTtSl deel`liasresp~edntlc.1 d    eeiyel-
niene toe birth  rate is eoaai to nhr death tuna, andialse the age  tIbfeTIT
istlrs e It. she 6pprl19on  i  naed    F yar                                                    HOUSnIhNrsGfdrte  ffaaia  a/ctdtn   ltre   egrsc   nnradonIe   c
P.,    ityrtenaparnn.lee.                                                                               cstrennsicreeauteerieeruecegl    ern
e    _Jalnseni  he reache.                                                                     heFnodro tctcn SAre   bnalde and fedgel  -tnetrda as une;srnedair
erulanir-le_att                                                                                  eh-e,nlo  rea-e    "at i  tfa   er   faene    nnr   encstn
total ura; idg- h,i-IIf,sd19   es                                                                      clacnlye   1c   1yano P..age   orspnrrrre    r
Yenltinlnthatlprrol-Tnl-ena   g -cttt1i                               tnnaid-yntayaeectdt77eldiiddbntbraltacts   rnscr
pepeistine   Inn 1151-l, ilt-f, sod   9ff-Hi    aiareug                                                        au "dIn  pryilet ie.agsde lb- years end         _ near.     d
Beads eni tat  (e-  t --esulP -aetah   Itre  irty           pen   h nnasna frt  ly ntsd-1
pcpclanice; 1191,11ff, end 1911 d te.                                                     rae   sado elean  tree ec-f  pereena r-; encde  aetla-e  , d tere aed
greta eeprodnrnien iace-aerrage  ceelet et dsngttet  a acannelPI brat In            el 1ireryielejie....ole..l-l
herenrualreprncrnior  yrriodtstr anpenienre   hrereug-seefr                             adnecicr_lnrto-elenlt,e   -A lnypeotoltntrun
-1-191.                 -lt                V      r,    edda            l                       EUAIONeedeecsorenre anieyesadergtsrie frdo
Paiylano-ccpet   encllhnteslaealtoerfrepesseta   srats drforrntfasero   hnnaroeteesa
dfbri-eteldcrt  re  usit  ofi eat .ne  feRypuaog                                   -castesa iidlirenlo
til  Alt ltif. i                                                                                      cicelatio-c    alyyenrlThtern tenyJsrhdernraddaptnndliol
atoelpriccocotnltctcosadicat. yrorrtcornlndsaeean                      -   ctsdanycle1  stepente     ens  -cor diee   aeeeb.                     g.  61
asgurrenI enns epdofegalaoic.he a_re Sdiilssodreptalotioeaei                                          nbeaodrg                eetlndigdnaenn                       rn-ncnIn
yeteapts rsppy       -f aloIes (r -hcee  -f Theiyearnth   -enyoed   re                               etlLao  fnrn    itertand)-leeielese    esn    nidn    re
saergpeqnlnaero   e   edap1laenie                      nesr    e   apn  per-                        fertes an  cranlPed1  bet edrialg  eoseele  s- nadin d ,  st.,  oer
quP.antte    ndI   edpnas.g   n   ostI   lttiin.                                                        aiDIptnnt  -PePtheie   mn    as prcetag    _hf IcL  l-atrfns
stri.k.   "i-este-P~dhy- Pdl batd n  piy.aInnla   essfrttsa                                  pelne  fret  adinttferrlo darnin,.d Aeeten ab-t teg ad.r
artinity  and benint cnneldseioganolrnseeorel renystatate  hedy esigia                   Isigu  pereeag   c  fetal labor -terre; Id li,111adIIH    a
age arad eta dsetroirtnnn  nO poyrlatno,: an   ii-e   i   arstPe   us                        ndt - g teee) - 'labrtreI   ri9    estetc     anatr
anb 6secd   19e0el;   1911il  191eddIata.an   lrrcl,ete   n   a  a   ecnagIftta   ao   ereflf
Par  aynt  a rl   fperlo(ra  rtdr  resnrest  fprtprsI                                                         n    llS. data.i-
rantnplyeftee   pr dy.Ianacylyoffeo   I  dfisd  s aos                    fat rlp  tne  et  Ipetnt  -  etl ,nee ,an  tetl-PsiiipalePe
Thrd 6ed  0en   1omey; 1d111-i.191d   n   lldt.Ieoi t-hprndn-r fat,ie  -, tett  nppl t-ende  lb ad,, -f and nestt
Per rapine pr-t1, Raypi  fre eh eruled  e  aPcni   oplyeaedth   ea   abrlte
R.ot.edledeiod fin  lIf  tables  1910   111 sod IlIF date.                                  beua -beidt.
at bIrsi;   If,  19511 0 and     -7, hd 91   70date.                                                 s _bntcld      If is  leeprtdeit  PnPsidsiahlcaniIon. ,ea,  t,
Istan  lerthliyRate -    hyst       -   I" tinnso i- ern i drahh. Pf tlefeon   unde  oniadae-bnot   eetfIrn   enl                                        t   apt)     re   n   ne
Year ef neti. pe    196eanC   bshrts;190,19fan  iildaa.1atnt p1styidoe  sel aCht eNaslaelile  siIaeeia
deC,es  eft Safe aaien  pen-ceni  -f pplan1ldn) -   Prenl  stun,d erI rural -                           rssi -oe  ly e ede -eat  d etplia,ese-niu pen-tsed  rqin_             tftne
-teelntynailsl ... as     y frresi-sc  th inag neetine  i yep6atro ,-  less                         pedied a  nerLemeo   i   sen.Ib               los   sdrndfe   h   a
nes    re9      elcfatasn   nodps   cetdntcnttu9I7n0                             t                    ealnt,desan   o  higher test1-            n  liIn   tenthna-e -
bdiy  l-eas,a   ereier   t  tn   ans   rsnieart   fte                                           Isnmetd~ Pepaasen er                 PIe neeta  oene_I   f LePI     aten)-ura
Ifbeill laterlaesraealara e,hd -sul n)                       ae t--Iefeaef -   e't'                  cedi-s1d Paerr,an%      f       lten(rba a      nd enltai      ; abe -ar  "tene,
ti   e   n  sate   the a tartly'..autsineeds
ruralIf in-n-te  f peepte(sosal,nrbat, ad;retellaIt,ed  b  esreet
Fd.lysPIt aspeetge   dteitnreseeppltIns    nrsadae
may  roide  Ic  oltnnineo   dtpesa, eth   r utint ieutsot, efPreeml  soTloe1 etelicsi-
hne inrsl  aneat-nutn  yant-breiytbs   e  heseofiftreILl ...acaeyniille                                                                                                _ept      _te
pnielee and sisilse  Ieatalletsera.        P'b                                                                 "d                      leayll   .  bl-IHI1



- 27 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%) /a
Amount
(million US$ at                                                                          Estimated
current prices)                                Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                             1981            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b         85,486            5.0    6.9    8.9    7.7    6.3    9.9    7.9   -0.1           1.4    5.1    7.1
Agriculture                     21,587            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    3.9    5.2    4.9    2.1    2.6    3.1    3.1
Industry                        34,668            5.6   11.1   14.2    8.7    7.1   12.5    8.5   -1.9           1.0    9.4   11.4
Services                        29,231           10.1    5.9   12.5    9.2    7.7   11.8    9.8    5.5    1.0    2.0    5.0
Consumption                       66,308            6.4    7.9    5.6    8.9   13.6   13.1   15.8    3.9    0.4   -0.1    4.5
Gross investment                   18,280          14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.7   11.1   13.0   -8.1    5.0    6.0
Exports of GNFS                   23,309           -2.4   17.0    9.5    1.0   -0.1   -5.7   -2.4  -10.4   -1.2   12.8   11.1
Imports of GNFS                   22,411           11.7   16.8    4.4   12.7   22.5   16.9   27.1   10.4  -12.0   -4.2    2.0
Gross national savings            17,016          -16.3   14.2   30.2  -17.5   62.5   33.2  -Z0.0  -19.0    5.4   28.4   15.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    238    315    407    448    484    581    668    741
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    627    632    661    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)
(at current prices)                                  Average annual increase (%) /a
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9           8.4         7.4         4.2         5.1
Agriculture                  54      47     32      25      25      23         2.7          4.1          3.3         3.2         4.0
Industry                     14     18      34      43      41      41         5.2         12.0          9.8         4.2         5.1
Services                     32     35      35      32      34      36         4.8          9.7          9.5         4.6         6.0
Consumption                  91     89      79      71      73      74         4.1          8.4          9.2         4.7         5.4
Gross investment              8      14     20      21      22      23         4.8         18.3         12.2         5.1         6.0
Exports of GNFS              13      13     23      31      27      25         3.6          9.2          2.9        -1.1         3.9
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -22              3.2         22.1         14.0         3.8         5.3
Gross national savings        8       9      17     26      23      23         6.1         23.1         14.2         2.6         4.5
As % of GDP
1960          1970            1975           1980            1982
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                    11.7         10.1             17.4            22.5           23.2
Current expenditures                                                14.0          8.4              9.9            12.8           11.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                          -2.3         +1.6             +7.5           +9.7           +11.4
Capital expenditure                                                 n.a.          5.0             11.3            13.0           14.5
Foreign financing                                                   0.2           3.5              3.7             3.3            3.1
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 7.1             4.2              5.2
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                     2.4              5.1                 4.7              1.8             3.1
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.2             11.2                11.0             5.6              5.2
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.3             5.4              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.28            0.15             0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 0.84            0.11             1.03
/a At constant 1973 prices for 1975-1981, and 1981 orices for 1982-1985.
lb  At market prices.
/c  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                         East Asia and Pacific Programs
October 5, 1983



- 28 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
Population        152.6 million (mid-1982)
GNP per Capita:  US$580 (1982 estimate)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                     Estimated Projected
Indicator                   1977      1978      1979      1980      1981    1982        1983      1984     1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   18,510   22,885   22,994   19,524   17,540    20,907   25,437   47,398
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   12,340   17,297   18,824   15,631   13,370    15,638   19,425   33,931
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171       i,587    4,170    3,893    4,170        5,269    6,012   13,467
2.  Imports (including net NFS)        -10,686  -11,493  -13,205  -17,589  -22,096  -22,773  -20,020   -20,983  -23,164  -40,345
(a)  Oil sector                     -2,909   -3,364   -2,940   -4,050   -5,407   -5,468   -4,357    -4,135   -4,398   -6,899
(b)  Nonoil imports                 -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,837  -14,022  -14,893  -13,698   -15,069  -17,110  -31,646
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586   -1,237   -.,702   -2,667   -2,411   -1,965    -1,779   -1,656   -1,800
3.  Resource balance                        175     -140    5 305    5,296         898   -3,249   -2,480          -76    2,273    6,913
4.  Factor services                        -865   -1,015   -3,106   -3,165   -3,267   -3,566   -3,898    -4,625   -5,599   -9,380
(a)  Interest public debt             -441      -485      -635      -724      -820   -1,464   -1,494    -1,803   -2,098   -3,031
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -530   -2,471   -2,441   -2,447   -2,102   -2,404    -2,822   -3,501   -6,349
5.  Capital grants                           66        46        52        76       67       100       100        100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109    2,198    2,131   -2,302   -6,715   -6,278    -4,601   -3,227   -2,367
7.  Direct foreign investment               285       271       217       140      139       276       350        350       400       700
8.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956    1,638    1,939    2,864    3,203    4,383    5,411           5,592    5,733    6,973
(b)  Amortization                     -825      -977   -1,335       -987   -1,(01   -1,146   -1,541    -1,943   -2,297   -4,866
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       660       604    1,877    2,202    3,237    3,870         3,648    3,436    2,107
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140       888   -1,329   -1,248       -539       -78    2,675         480    1,174        615
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736         988    3,280       -617        123   -1,783   -1,055
11.  Net official reserves                 2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354    3,074    3,724           3,636    5,485   10,115
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3       5.4       6.5       4.4      2.1       2.9        2.6       3.5       3.5
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                 -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154    7,674    7,824           7,236    8,685   13,315
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4       4.3       8.1       9.6       7.8       4.7       6.2        5.2       5.5      4.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                      1,956         2,205    1,865    2,536    2,729
Concessional Loans                         442       484      433       659       792
Bilateral                               381       448       399       611       718
IDA                                      49        29        30        42        69
Other                                     12         6         5        6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                    I,14    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,937
Official export credits                  218      271        61        44       165
IBRD                                     191      168       199       331       314
Other mnultilateral                       16       12        46        52        86
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,449    1,372
External Debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107            13,234   14,882   15,737
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400   10,114
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,623
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,354
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,100    1,772    1,974
Interest                              441       514       771       819       973
Payments as 2 exports /e                11.6     18.2      11.3       7.7       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(%)                                     6.3       7.6       6.6       8.2       8.6
Official - source                       5.6       4.6       5.0       5.5       7.9
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2       8.6      12.3       9.2
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5      18.8      18.6      18.6      15.2
Official - source                       23.8     30.1      24.8      24.4      20.8
Private  - source                        9.1      8.7      11.0       9.9      10.6
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1982
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                   40
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                  69
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                 5.7
Ia  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
lb  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in acddition to official reserves.
Ic  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                    East Asia and Pacific Programs
/e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                          October 5, 1983



- 29 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) /a
US$ million
Loan/                                                                   Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                          Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans and thirty-seven Credits fully disbursed  760.5    544.1
479   1974   Bali Tourism                                     -       16.0       0.4
1100  1975   Sixth Irrigation                               65.0        -        5.5
1197  1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping             13.0        -        1.6
1237  1976   Fourth Education                               37.0        -        2.9
1250  1976   Second Shipping                                54.0        -        0.5
1268  1976   Seventh Irrigation                             33.0        -        5.9
1336  1977   Second Urban Development                       52.5        -        4.5
1337  1977   Tanjung Priok Port                             32.0        -        4.8
1365  1977   Sixth Power                                   116.0        -       25.7
1373  1977   Nutrition Development                          13.0        -        0.3
1433  1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education               19.0        -        4.7
1434  1977   Eighth Irrigation                              63.0        -       27.2
1435  1977   Ninth Irrigation                               35.0        -        4.2
1472  1977   Second Population                              24.5        -        6.6
1486  1978   Non-Formal Education                           15.0        -        4.0
1499  1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I              65.0        -       22.5
1513  1978   Seventh Power                                  94.0        -       27.2
785  1978   Small Enterprise Development                     -      40.0        7.6
1578  1978   Tenth Irrigation                              140.0        -      101.1
1579  1978   Eleventh Irrigation                            31.0        -       11.6
827  1978   Rural Credit                                     -      30.0        2.5
1604  1978   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders II               65.0        -       45.4
869  1979   Polytechnic                                      -      49.0       22.2
1645  1979   Twelfth Irrigation                             77.0        -       42.1
1653  1979   Third Urban Development                        54.0        -       19.6
898  1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                       -      10.0        8.2
1691  1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control              50.0        -       27.0
1692  1979   Second Agricultural Training                   42.0        -       11.0
1696  1979   Fifth Highway                                 123.2        -       70.1
1703  1979   Fourth BAPINDO                                 50.0        -        7.2
919  1979   Transmigration 1I                                -      67.0       15.1
1707  1979   Transmigration II                              90.0       -        87.8
1708  1979   Eighth Power                                  175.0       -        60.1
1709  1979   Second TAter Supply                            36.0        -       20.2
/a    The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.



- 30J -                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal.                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                          Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
946  1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                     -      12.0        8.1
1751  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders III              99.0        -       59.3
984  1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                   -      45.0       31.6
995  1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                             -      45.0       25.2
996  1980   National Agriculture Extension II                -      42.0       34.9
1811  1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                         116.0        -       78.4
1835  1980   Nucleus Estate & Smallholders IV               42.0        -       34.3
1840  1980   National Agricultural Research                 35.0        -       35.0
1014  1980   National Agricultural Research                   -       30.0      21.7
1869  1980   Third Population                               35.0        -       29.5
1872  1980   Ninth Power                                   253.0        -      166.1
1898  1981   Smallholder Coconut Development                46.0        -       37.3
1904  1981   University Development                         45.0       -        41.9
1950  1981   Tenth Power                                   250.0        -      156.3
1958  1981   Swamp Reclamation                              22.0       -        16.4
1972  1981   Fourth Urban Development                       43.0        -       35.1
2007  1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V             161.0       -       144.2
2011  1981   Second Small Enterprise Development           106.0        -       18.7
2049  1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                       85.0       -        85.0
2056  1982   Eleventh Power                                170.0        -      146.9
2066  1982   Second Seeds                                   15.0       -        14.8
2079  1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                    185.0        -      144.8
2083  1982   Rural Roads Development                       100.0       -        84.5
2101  1982   Second Teacher Training                        80.0       -        79.7
2102  1982   Second Textbook                                25.0       -        25.0
2118  1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                           37.0       -        34.7
2119  1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                         70.0        -       64.2
2120  1982   National Fertilizer Distribution               66.0       -        63.0
2126  1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI                 68.1       -        66.8
2153  1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                   25.0       -        24.6
2199  1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                       5.5       -         4.9
Engineering Project
2214  1983   Twelfth Power                                 300.0       -       293.8
2232  1983   Nucleus Estate & Smallho:lders VII            154.6        -      152.3
2235  1983   Provincial Health                              27.0       -        26.6
2236  1983   Jakarta Sewerage & Sanitation                  22.4       -        22.2
2248  1983   Transmigration III                            101.0       -        99.5
2258  1983   Public Works Manpower Development              30.0        -       29.8
Project
2275  1983   East Java Water Supply I                       30.6        -       30.5
2277  1983   BAPINDO V                                     208.9        -      208.9
2288  1983   Transmigration IV                              63.5       -        62.6
2290  1983   Second Polytechnic                            107.4        -      107.1



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
2300  1983   Thirteenth Power Ia                          279.0        -      279.0
2341  1984   Third Agriculture Training /a                 63.3        -       63.3
2344  1984   Nucleus Estate & Smallholder Sugar /a         79.2        -       79.2
Total Bank loans and IDA credits           6,076.15   930.10
Of which has been, repaid                   -241.83    -9.70
Total now outstanding                      5,834.32   920.40
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -27.21        -1.03
Total now held by Bank. and IDA/b          5,833.29   920.40
Total undisbursed.                         3,797.50   177.50  3,975.00
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of- September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0        -        11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9        -         0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.       -        0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                -        1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4        -         0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9        -         0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia              (Construction
Material         48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market          4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                         118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled               82.6       5.7       88.3
Total held by IFC                                36.2      12.3        48.5
Undisbursed (including particiLpant's portion)   -             -          -



- 33-                             ANNEX III
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project       :   24 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project       :   Ministry of Public Works
(Cipta Karya) and Home
Affairs (PUOD)
(c) Date of departure of appraisal
mission                                   July 1983
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations          March 1984
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness               August 1984
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
The Government would:
(a) furnish to the Bank, by July 31, 1986, the funding requirements of
an adequate operation and maintenance program for infrastructure in
the project cities and a five-year budgetary plan for carrying out
such a program, beginning on April 1, 1987 (para. 46).
(b) cause the project cities to increase their income from both local
revenues and the national real property tax by an average of not
less than 5% each per annum in real terms during the period April 1,
1984-March 31, 1989 (para. 47); and
(c) furnish to the Bank, by September 30, 1985, the results of the solid
waste cost recovery study and promptly introduce a cost recovery
program (para. 48).






IBRD 17528
INDONESIA                                                                                                                DECEMBER 1983T
FIFTH URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT                                                                  -  MALAYSIA
SUJRAKARTA                                                                         1,SINGAPORE
S U RLA K       AASM,oNTAN
PROPOSED PROJECT                                                                                         SU L'A'Si'ESI
S-R,4NJAYTA
Kampungs to be mr-ved
PR EV IOUS PROJECT                     TO SEMARANG                              C
K-mpungs improved doring Third Urban Project                                        JAWA
Loan 1653), 1979-83
ROADS                                                               IS 5c             t             t0            tO0'   -AUSTRALIA~o
RAILWAYS
RIVERS
- -      DISTR CT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- ,
BAN JARSARI
/J                             - A
+m   ,   -,.t.,,,.--  ...            ..      \     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~         -,-& o
//   -,                                                                            -\I  .  t X
.A, S  .                                                                        -t ,, y
> ~~~L A WE YAN                                                      g                                             ,ty.-xgJ E BRE S
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI -t Tl 'tt B-k 1- lh- 
I/                      < K                                                   <5;- >pX i-  ^  /! >S- r-h - -<
K   L~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~/ I
-                                                    ;>|;+0Xe */S>>~~~~~~~~T-t.
o hAs map o nlo oC,on Ineaol A
pr  The WAOcBcAAcank OAoIAA,e
Alcan    Ar<4e f 3 Toe CAorpo. aAF
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 1ot 2a 0Otmp,c 
A~~~                                                           I                                                                    .






IBRD  17529
,TF,ILAND      llu-            121.     P'fPPINES               40       -                                                                                              NOVEMBER 1983
BRUNEI                   -                                                                           I NDON ESIA
M'A LAYS4i'AJ                        *            -                              FIFTH  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4 Z IMANG rArV           -                                                                              SU RABAYA
Th                      , -R5A                                                      PROPOSED  PROJECT:                             PREVIOUS  PROJECT
Kampungs to be improved                        Kampungs improved during Second
< -~  c~i~                                42                   ZZ.22   Mainr Canas and  Drains                         Urban Project(Loan 1336); 1976-79
vAWA-'2    3-   Main Canal1s asnd Drrains
fTertiary drains located in KIP areas          Kampungs improved during Third
100             10°             i2C5  '          01°                                               are nor oriown)                                Urban Project(Loan 1653); 1979-83
Drainage Improvements
m n s-ar .sb prnvfei,adby                                                                                                                                 (Loan 1336 and others)
rTh wovd Ban' .   sn -Xcida-5lY
ifc The consonanCe 01 nsh
readeas e-, c s   wos    r0e                                                                    /
s t-   m cE f Th. ftdd B..--X'   
and the rne_At.Fiance Fr 1-                                                                                                                 -       Roads
Oorvo,abo  The de-nvaf-on'
sand an d ins cccndar,S ShSWn                                                                                                             ---s_-    Ra i Iways
Pes rnap dIV  -PfrtP\.                                                                                                                               Rivers
vcno, The 00040Bank and die         \               \\\tt(  ~~'~     c>v
., Fdgr.W . tt.3 1.g.1 WetIS2U                  ,\X\ r't.   a    
n    -osna/- Inan                                                                                                                                  I---nternational Baundaries
SLChbOzIdAneS / t '. }, RsBFX . f v t,SE/icAAM/R'2 J
>\CA            -C1,                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
/ \ I Ccj S                  I                          X                          1         2         3          4
S r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
i   0  '               -                 ,_^, t.    S                    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RI'
.  f  , i  ,  }  SA,4:/ .l,\ t ~ ~ ~ ~ -- - - -/                                                         5-2
. g > X KIPEMBANLA  -- . . /  ., 
.. _                 .Ar~ .# .      .R  o/; >:                                                   '' 
IT~~~~~~~~~~-
A'ARANGR/LAANG .0                                   WO< Or1 ,QAI
RUNGKUT
5'.             /                                     -i   -
S 7/tj                                                                                                  .   ,        






. _   _    n    w                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NzV1a-AsEP 19E3 i
INDONESIA                                                     ,                 -         -v'--                                      1S 3
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMIENT FPROJECT                                                                      S-NGAPCR1E
SEMARANG
PROPOSED PROJECT                                                            -
Kampungs t be ,rproved                                !N--l OCE-A
main Canals and cira ns
Drainaea areas to be affected                          _
PlIEVIOUS PROJECT
Kampungs eSprored durin5 Thlird Unban Prjecs,
(Loan 1653i. 1979-83                                   - r /,A:;      SEA                                  T J'.
EXISTING DRAINS                                                        /                                       a : . . .ug r1
fOADS                                                                     \
-RAILWAYS,   \\\ \..-. i.. .
Hn-   ilERS                                               \                                                 snr            : _:   .     .. 
I  NTERNATIONAL 0I.UNDARIES               g      1|fX           <>9
KIMOMETERS 0            1             2           3                                                      I                                  r
MILESZINA   RUNArO 2A
S.,,,, ~       ~                     \)X
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
<A   A                                                                        To SUPA3X A .  GrAARrA
,\ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    -          /k_                                       _       ,          _              _ _ _ ._  _ _   .      _   _






IBRD 17531
NOVEMBER 1983
INDONESIA
FIFTH URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
UJUNG PANDANG
PROPOSED  PROJECT;
Kampungs to be improved                                                                             .
Drains
( Tertiary drains located in KIP arems are ent sho-rner)
PREVIOUS  PROJECT:                                                              --                 f       iG-A
Kompung Improved during Third Urbcn Pru[ect                                             .-
(Loan 1653)1979-83                                                                                                                          7,
Main Canals                                           1IAAN                          T A               0 TA/IC
Roads
District Boundories
Internotional Bundaries                t.-                             lr | -
WAJO1 d 
KILOMETERS                                     .                   . .       *       y
t~ceAeuOALAIf,
MILES                                ' ,.                       ,     _ r                           I 
j-~~~~~-
_ a _e g , t . ~~~-                I
,j-M K A ,,.
-2                            7 . , -\                   PA NA KKL/KA NG
44A   /              -, /
\   MARISO              \      .                                    - 
TA M A A  A  E'
i.,~~~~~~~~~TALN                                          12. ,.LIPIE                   140
.' --'
-map I.S boen prepired by                        BRUNEI       L
N                                                 rhe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 Worl tB-k sta V0CU  t  M A L A Y S I A                         - 
Fnthe yyepnna,tknalFfeecre ,p,       M  i70E AL/,AYIA  r      L .S
-|-,"y Coprho bdslmwtss%                            1tWt5   PORE                      4
eader sp adO n ocsmpy. fon the      -                              ..' .  AYA1
,der,,  -t e od ak  0KAL IMANTAN
Copnah, me  f dee5aos-o -SLA-WES1
pad of rhe WFd Bank and ner                Jokorp             0z
FhtF JbiOeai VmEs00 Corpora toe                 -                                          n
ut any terr o- n    Pt     -             JAWA WA             '4
-100°             lO              2°lO'                        t0 






