OFFII AI         LOAN NUMBER 2408 IND
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                  1984..,. JO  ]934


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2408 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        (y\J        L        , 1984, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (here after called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Cipta Karya" means the Directorate General of Housing,
Building, Planning and Urban Development in the Borrower's Min-
istry of Public Works;
(b) "DJMDN" means the Borrower's Directorate General of
Domestic Monetary Affairs within the Ministry of Finance;
(c) "DJ PAJAK" means the Borrower's Directorate General of
Taxation within the Ministry of Finance;


﻿- 2 -
(d)  "IPEDA" means the Borrower's national rea' property
tax for regional development;
(e)  "Project   Cities"  means   the  Borrower's   cities  of
Semarang, Surabaya, Surakarta and Ujung Pandang;
(f)  "PUOD"   means  the   Directorate   General   of  Public
Administration and Regional Autonomy in the Borrower's Ministry
of Home Affairs;
(g) "Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower;
(h)  "Subsidiary Loan" means a loan provided for in a Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement; and
(i) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and each Project City and the
Provincial Government of South Sulawesi pursuant to Section 3.06
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine
million two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($39,250,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to ninety-seven thousand eight hundred and eighty
dollars ($97,880).
(b)   On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed;
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum;


﻿-4-
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the a,tount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985;
and
(iv)  "Semester" means   the  first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Cipta Karya, PUOD, DJMDN, DJ PAJAK, and Project Cities under
the overall supervision of Cipta Karya, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
engineering and financial practices, and shall orovide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation on paragraph (a) of this Section,
the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that each of the Project Cities
establish by July 31, 1984, and thereafter maintain: (1) Project
Implementation Units, responsible for the day-to-day implementa-
tion of the Project; and (2) a Project Finance Office, respon-
sible for the timely record-keeping of Project expenditures; each
of such Units and Office to be staffed with qualified personnel
in adequate numbers; (ii) by July 31, 1984, establish and there-
after maintain a Project Management Unit, responsible for the
supervision of the execution of the Project, such Unit to be
staffed with qualified personnel in adequate numbers; (iii) by
July 31, 1984, appoint and thereafter maintain, a Chief of
Project Management Unit in each of its provinces containing a


﻿- 5 -
Project City; and (iv) by July 31, 1984, appoint and th:reafter
maintain, a Project Coordinator in each Project City.
(c) The Borrower shall cause all its departments, agencies
and administrative subdivisions and all departments and agencies
of its administrative subdivisions, responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof, to cooperate effectively with
each other in the execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records


﻿and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably reqxlest con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services financed out of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon request, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project.
Section 3.06. The proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from time
to time on account of expenditures for Parts A, B and C of the
Project shall be relent under Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
the Borrower and each Project City concerned and the Provincial
Government of South Sulawesi (a portion of Part C) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Such terms and conditions
shall include, inter alia, that: (i) the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan shall be the equivalent in terms of Rupiah of the
proceeds of the Loan so withdrawn (such equivalent to be deter-
mined as of the respective dates of withdrawal); (ii) the princi-
pal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid over a period
of twenty years starting on the date of signing of the Subsidiary


﻿- 7 -
Loan Agreement, including a grace period of five years; and (iii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall bear interest at an annual rate that
shall be not less than 10% per cent. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the Project Manage-
ment Unit3 established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, to prepare and furnish to the Bank,
through Cipta Karya, not later than four months prior to the end
of each fiscal year, the proposed annual program and financing
plan for all works to be undertaken under Parts A, B anc C of the
Project for the ensuing fiscal year, the first such work program
and financing plan to be submitted not later than November 30,
1984.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) by September 30, 1985, or such other date as the Bank
may agree, furnish the result of the solid waste cost recovery
study under Part D (iii) of the Project to the Bank for comments;
and
(b) based on the recommendations of the study referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section and the comments of the Bank
thereon, promptly introduce a program of cost recovery in consul-
tation with the Bank.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part D (iii) of the Project
the Borrower shall:
(a) by July 31, 1986, or such other date as the Bank may
agree, furnish to the Bank for comments the funding requirements
for an adequate operation and maintenance program for infrastruc-
ture in the Project Cities; and
(b) promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments a
five-year budgetary plan, commencing April 1, 1987, for the
carrying out of the program referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall: (i) enable accredited
representatives of the Bank to exchange views with representa-
tives of the administrative authorities of each Project City with
regard to the progress of the Project and the benefits derived


﻿therefrom, and the administration, operations, resources and
expenditures of such Project City, with regard to the Project;
and (ii) cause each such Project City to furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request for that
purpose.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
under normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for
the benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be
created  on  any  public   assets  (as  hereinafter  defined), as
security for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in
the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of such
lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on
assets of any of its administrative subdivisions, the Borrower
shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property
or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose
of financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and secur-
ing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,


﻿including gold and foreign exchange assets held by any institu-
tion performing the functions of a central bank or exchange
stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of Cipta Karya, PUOD, the Project Cities and the depart-
ments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning said separate accounts,
records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause each Project City to
take all measures necessary to increase the income accruing to
each such Project City from both local revenues and IPEDA by an
average of not less than 5% per annum each, in real terms,


﻿- 10 -
beginning in the Borrower's fiscal year starting April 1, 1984,
and ending in the fiscal year starting April 1, 1988.
For the purposes of this Section, the term "real terms"
means current revenues adjusted (on the basis of the consumer
price indices published by the Borrower's Biro Pusat Statistik)
to the value of corresponding revenues prevailing as of March 31,
1984.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the infrastructure,
community facilities and equipment constructed or acquired under
the Project, to be operated and maintained in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and public utility practices and
shall provide or cause to be provided all funds, facilities and
other resources required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have
been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and each of the
Project Cities, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that each of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified by all parties
thereto, and is legally binding upon such parties in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date 1z:!)J307O O 1984, is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable addiess:                      Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                    DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                            DJMDN JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By (&(1. 9~L~C
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By (2                     8-.o      E
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditires for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works
for the Project
Cities:
(a) Semarang              5,500,000         65%
(b) Surabaya              6,500,000         65%
(c) Surakarta             1,300,000         65%
(d) Ujung Pandang         3,400,000         65%
(2) Equipment and              7,000,000         100% of foreign
vehicles                                    expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost); 65%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Consultants'              8,000,000          100%
services
(4) Fee                          97,880         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(5) Unallocated                7,452,120
TOTAL               39,250,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" meats expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $300,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a) and
(1)(c) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after December 1, 1983.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan    or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category, and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 15 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedurs set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve basic urban
services and strengthen municipal administration in the Project
Cities and augment the capacity for local resource mobilization.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Kampung Improvement Program
A program of basic infrastructure public works covering
about 2,500 ha of selected low income neighborhoods (or kampungs)
in the Project Cities, including the construction of roads, foot-
paths, water supply and drainage works, sanitation facilities,
and schools and health facilities.
Part B:   Solid Waste Improvement Program
Operation and management of improved collection, transport
and disposal of solid waste from residential and market areas of
the Project Cities including acquisition, utilization and main-
tenance of vehicles and equipment and use of sanitary landfill
schemes.
Part C:   Drainage Improvement Program
Rehabilitation of primary, secondary and tertiary drainage
network, covering about 5,300 ha in the cities of Semarang,
Surabaya and Ujung Pandang, and establishment in such cities of
an operation and maintenance program for the citywide drainage
system,   including  acquisition  and   utilization  of   cleaning
equipment.
Part D:   Municipal Management Programs
Design and carrying out of programs in the Project Cities in
the areas of: (i) financial planning, budgeting, accounting and
management for key municipal agencies; (ii) operation, main-
tenance and management of citywide infrastructure, and cost
recovery mechanisms for solid waste collection; and (iii) land
taxes assessment, collection and administration, including train-
ing of tax agencies staff of the Borrower in cadastral survey,
documentation and valuation.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:   Technical Assistance
1.   Engineering and management assistance to the Project Cities.
2.   Advisory assistance to Cipta Karya in the carrying out of
Parts A, B and C of the Project and on related policy
matters.
3.   Auditing services for the audit of Project accounts.
4.   Drainage feasibility studies for the city of Surakarta, and
pre-investment, urban feasibility and sector development
studies for selected provinces and cities of the Borrower.
5.   Strengthening  the project preparation    capacity of Cipta
Karya.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1989.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1989
through   November 1, 2003                   1,310,000
On May 1, 2004                                    1,260,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                          0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                          0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                           1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for goods shall be grouped so as to achieve
efficiency in procurement, consistent with appropriate technical
and procurement practices.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procurel1 on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 21 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Republic of Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Indonesia if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Republic of
Indonesia equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of       the goods. Such    lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered
in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison
only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay


﻿- 22 -
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance with
the Borrower's local competitive bidding procedures in effect as
of the date of this Agreement.
2.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than $200,000
equivalent each may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's
local competitive bidding procedures in effect as of the date of
this Agreement.
3.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of prudent shopping
after solicitation and comparison of at least 3 price quotations
from reputable suppliers, provided, however, that such contracts
shall not exceed in the aggregate $200,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 each or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
b4dders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 23 -
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time f(. its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure) the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  20      day of       , 1984.
FOR SECRETARY


