RESTRICTED
FILE' COPY                          Report No. P-476
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PR ESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
IN COLOMBIA
FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANIES PROJECT
April 22, 1966



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONi AND DEVELOPiENT
REPORT AND RECOI-2MNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA IN COLOMBIA
FOR THE DEVELOPHENT FINANCE COIPANIES PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$25 million to
Banco de la Republica, the proceeds of which are to be made available to
five Colombian Private Development Finance Companies (Financieras).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Of the five Financieras, the two largest, Corporacion Financiera
Colombiana (CF Colombiana, established in Bogota in 1959) and Corporacion
Financiera Nacional (CF Nacional, established in Medellin in 1960) have a
national scope. The three others, Corporacion Financiera de Caldas (CF de
Caldas, established in Manizales in 1961), Corporacion Financiera del Valle
(CF del Valle, established in Cali in 1962) and Corporacion Financiera del
Norte (CF del Norte, established in Barranquilla in 1964) operate on a
regional basis. IFC made investments in three of them as follows: a $2 mil-
lion convertible loan to CF Nacional in 1961 (converted into common stock
in 1961-63), a $2 million convertible loan to CF Colombiana in 1961 (con-
verted into common stock in 1961-62), and a $700,000 equity investment in
CF Caldas in 1964.
3.        In order to help increase the pace of investments in the private
sector which has been suffering from a lack of medium and long-term
financing facilities, the Bank, since 1963, had been considering making a
loan to the Financieras. Moreover, the Bank had also actively supported
the creation of a Private Investment Fund (PIF) within Banco de la Republica,
the Central Bank, as a means of inducing and facilitating a substantial flow
of external credits for financing productive investments in industry and
agriculture.



- 2 -
4.        As requested by the Financieras, the Bank would have been willing
to make the loan directly to them but, in this case, the Government was un-
willing to guarantee a loan which would be made directly to private companies.
It became necessary therefore to find an intermediary channel which would
be acceptable to the Government for the purpose of giving its guarantee.
Because of the inflationary tendencies of the Colombian economy, neither the
Financieras nor the ultimate beneficiaries could prudently have assumed the
foreign exchange risk on a long-term loan. On the other hand, the Government
was unwilling to cover this risk in favor of a special group of private
companies. Again, an intermediary had to be found which could assume the
foreign exchange risk and which would be acceptable to the Government as well
as to the Financieras.
5.        The solution finally arrived at in late 1964 was to use PIF as the
vehicle for channeling the Bank loan to the Financieras. The loan would be
made to Banco de la Republica for relending to the Financieras through PIF,
and it would be guaranteed by the Government. Banco de la Republica would
assume the foreign exchange risk at a cost to the Financieras of a 3 percent
annual interest surcharge which would also cover administrative expenses.
6.        An IFC mission visited Colombia in early 1965 to appraise this
project. In December 1965 the Bank invited representatives of the
Financieras, the Banco de la Republica, and the Government for negotiations.
The principal Colombian negotiators were: Mr. Uribe Botero, Ambassador of
Colombia; Mr. Arias-Robledo, General Manager of Banco de la Republica; and
Messrs. Ocampo, Herrera Carrizosa, Gutierrez Gomez, Jaramillo and Salcedo,
Presidents of the five Financieras. The negotiations were completed in late
February 1966.
7.        The proposed loan would be the 26th made to Colombia and it would
increase the total of Bank loans to Colombia to $413.9 million (net of can-
cellations).  IDA has made one credit of $19.5 million to Colombia.   The
following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Colombia
as of March 31, 1966:



-3-
Amount (US $ Million)
Year    Borrower                          Purpose     Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Fully disbursed
Total (less cancellations)                   187.4
1961    Empresas Publicas de Medellin     Power       22.0             2.2
1961    Government                        Roads       19.5             5.1
1961    Government                        Roads             19.50      8.3
1962    Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                       Power       50.0             6.2
1963    Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Colombia                     Railways    30.0             5.0
1963    Acerias Paz del Rio, S.A.         Steel       30.0            22.9
1963    Electrificadora de Bolivar, S.A.  Power        5.0             2.1
1964    Empresas Publicas de Medellin     Power       45.0            41.2
Total (less cancellations)                388.9  19.50
of which has been repaid                 75.3
Total now outstanding                     313.6
Amount sold                      14.4
of which has been repaid       12.3       2.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA            311.5  19.50
=
Total undisbursed                          84.7   8.3      93.0
8.        Eighteen loans have been completely disbursed.  On the remainder,
disbursements are proceeding normally with the following exception:
Disbursement of the 1961 road loan and credit has been delayed
because of administrative difficulties in the Ministry of Public
WVorks. This project is four years behind schedule and the Govern-
ment has now undertaken to retain management consultants to improve
the administrative performance of this Ministry. The situation is
being kept under close review by the Bank. I am planning to send
shortly a memorandum to the Executive Directors on the project.
9.        Together with this report, I am submitting to the Executive
Directors a proposed loan of $16.7 million to the Republic of Colombia for
livestock development, the proceeds of which are to be made available to
the Caja de Credito Agrario, Industrial y Minero.
10.       In the next few months the following loans are expected to be
presented to the Executive Directors for approval: a loan for a telecom-
munications project of about $23 million to the Empresa Nacional de Tele-
comunicaciones, and a loan for electric power development of about $10.5
million to Central Hidroelectrica del Rio Anchicaya, Ltda (CHIDRAL).



- 4 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROFOSED LOAN
11.       The main features of the proposed loan are as follows:
Borrower:              Banco de la Republica
Guarantor:             Republic of Colombia
Beneficiaries:         The proceeds of the loan to be re-lent by Banco
de la Republica to the following Financieras:
CF de Caldas, CF Colombiana, CF Nacional, CF
del Norte, and CF del Valle. After repayment
by the Financieras, these proceeds will be mnade
available to PIF (see paragraph 12 below).
Amount:                The equivalent in various currencies of $25
million.
Purpose:               To assist the private sector in Colombia by
providing medium and long-term finance to cover
the foreign exchange portion of investments
primarily in industry, said investments to be
made by the Financieras in the form of loans or
equity participations.
Amortization:          Term of 20 years, with semi-annual payment dates
of June 1 and December 1, and payments beginning
on December 1, 1970 and ending on December 1,
1986.
Interest rate:         6 percent per annum.
Commitment charge:     3/8 of 1 percent per annum accruing from the
time the Loan Account is credited with portions
of the loan for individual investment projects.
Relending terms:       Banco de la Republica wjill charge 3% additional
interest to the Financieras for assuming the
foreign exchange risk and to cover administra-
tive expenses. The Financieras will repay the
funds they receive from Banco de la Republica in
accordance with the amortization schedules appili-
cable to their loans to the ultimate benefi-
ciaries, which cannot exceed 15 years.
12.       The proposed loan would have a fixed amortization schedule and a
fixed interest rate. The amounts repaid to Banco de la Republica by the
Financieras which are not yet required to service the Bank loan would be used
by Banco de la Republica for the normal operations of PIF.



PART III  - THE PROJECT
13.       An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of five Colombian Private
Development Finance Cori,panies" (No.DB-28a) is attached.
14.       Colombia has a long experience in industry and has developed her
own managerial class of highly trained and dynamic entrepreneurs. Colombian
labor is readily susceptible to training and responds well to incentives.
15.       Manufacturing accounts for approximately 19 percent of Colombia's
domestic product, and is the second largest sector of the economy after
agriculture. Within the manufacturing sector the two traditional branches,
namely, food processing and beverages, and textiles and clothing, are domin-
ant. They contribute almost half of the value added by the sector and
employ about 48 percent of the industrial labor force. Colombia has, how-
ever, made great efforts in diversifying its industrial production and other
branches like chemicals or non-metallic minerals have also become significant.
16.       Following a period of rapid development in the 1950's when annual
growth rates of over 9 percent were not unusual, the pace of industrial
growth in Colombia slackened considerably in recent years to annual rates of
about 6 percent. This was primarily due to inflationary pressures and
balance of payment difficulties. Recently, however, the Colombian Govern-
ment has adopted an effective stabilization program and has taken measures
to improve the climate for industrial development.   As a result, it is
expected that the rate of increase of manufacturing output will accelerate
in 1966 and may again average about 9 to 10 percent per annum in the next
few years.  The level of investments is also likely to increase substantially.
17.       In Colombia, the principal institutional sources of industrial fi-
nancing in share capital are the insurance and allied savings companies and
the Financieras. The Banco de la Republica, through its rediscounting facil-
ities to the banking system, through the special credit lines which it makes
available to the Financieras and through the funds which are channeled
through PIF, provides most of the loan capital.
18.       PIF is regulated by Resolution No. 11 of February 1963.   It is an
account within Banco de la Republica out of which medium and long-term
credits are made available to financial institutions, including the Finan-
cieras, to finance private investment projects of high economic priority
in industry and agriculture. PIP has been a useful instrument for channeling
resources to the private sector and has become a major source of medium and
long-term industrial financing. About half of the U.S. program loan
counterpart funds and about 20 percent of the foreign exchange resources
going to the private sector from official sources have been channeled through
PIF ($53 million equivalent and $14 million respectively).
19.       Since 1963 and up to September 30, 1965, PIF has committed credits
in a total amount of Co1$479 million. Of these, Col$415 million were lent
for industrial projects representing a total investment of about Col$1.6
billion. About 80 percent of these commitments were made up to September
1964 at which time PIF had almost exhausted its resources.



- 6 -
Since these committed funds were disbursed over a 2 to 3 year period,
it may be judged that PIF contributed about 15 to 20 percent of net fixed
industrial investment during that period.
20.       The Financieras were established to provide medium and long-term
capital to private industry. Under their statutes, the Financieras are
engaged in a wide variety of operations which include medium and long-term
lending, import-export financing, equity participations, promotions, under-
writing and guarantees. The nature of their ownership varies, but on the
whole it consists of the large Colombian banking, insurance and industrial
companies; regional interests and small individual shareholders are also
represented. Foreign participation is particularly important in the two
larger institutions: CF Colombiana and CF Nacional. IFC's present holdings
are as follows: 1,812,000 shares of CF Colombiana with a total par value of
Col$18.1 million, 1,069,091 shares of CF Nacional with a par value of Col$10.7
million, and 70,000 shares of CF de Caldas with a par value of Col$7.0 million,
representing respectively about 15, 13 and 12 percent of their share capital.
21.       The Financieras have been profitable and their financial position
is sound. Return on average share capital in 1965 ranged from about 13 to
about 25 percent l/ All five companies have followed prudent reserve
policies.  They have, however, had difficulties in protecting their equity
from erosion through inflation. In agreement with the Bank, the Financieras
have accepted to limit their borrowings to five times their equity for
CF Colombiana and CF Nacional, and to four times for the three others.
22.       Since their inception the Financieras have had a significant
impact on the industrial development of Colombia. In the years 1963-64,
for example, they contributed about 16 percent of the total investment in
manufacturing. The Financieras have become the principal private institu-
tions providing medium and long-term capital to the private sector and they
are expected to increase this role in the future.
23.       In the light of their recent performance and in view of the en-
couraging prospects for industrial investment, the Financieras should
require, through the end of 1968, foreign exchange funds substantially in
excess of the US$25 million which the proposed Bank loan would provide.
According to the Financieras and their prospective clients, sufficient
local currency resources would be available in the next two years to comple-
ment the Bank loan.
24.       The past record of all five companies and their future prospects
make the five Financieras suitable recipients for the proposed Bank loan.
They fulfill an important role in the Colombian economy by providing long-
term financing facilities which are necessary for a healthy development
of the private sector and they have the capacity to make good use of these
additional resources.
1/   Net income  before taxes as percentage of average share capital
(in current values).



- 7 -
25.       In view of Colombiats economic situation (see paragraph 28 below
and paragraph 17 of the attached economic memorandum), it would be desir-
able to provide in this particular case, longer terms than would be justi-
fied on project grounds alone. The Bank loan would thus have a term of
20 years including a four-year grace period. As the maximum term of the
sub-loans would only be for 15 years and the average term much less, local
currency funds would accrue to PIF for use in its normal operations thereby
extending the usefulness of the proposed loan.
PART IV  - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
26.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de la
Republica, the Draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia
and the Bank, the Draft form of Project Agreement betixeen the Bank and each
Financiera, the Draft form of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Banco
de la Republica and each Financiera and the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section h(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
27.       These Draft Agreements contain covenants normally included in
agreements with development finance companies. Attention is drawn to the
following provisions:
i. pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement Banco de la
Republica will submit applications for crediting the Loan Account only if
it is satisfied that the respective investment project is of significance
to the economic development of Colombia;
ii. in Section 5.02(b) of the Loan Agreement it is provided that
the amounts repaid by the Financieras to Banco de la Republica shall be
credited to the PIF and shall be used in PIF's normal lending operations;
iii. the Loan Agreement provides that if a Financiera is in de-
fault under its Project Agreement with the Bank, the Bank has the right
to premature that part of the Loan which has been re-lent to the defaulting
Financiera and is outstanding (Section 6.01);
iv. the Loan Agreement can be made effective at the option of
the Bank even if one or more of the Financieras shall not have complied
with the conditions established for effectiveness (Section 7.01); the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the Project Agreements will become effec-
tive on the effective date of the Loan Agreement, but only for those
Financieras that have complied with the conditions of effectiveness on
their part (Section 5.01 of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Section 3.01
of the Project Agreements).



- 8 -
PART V - THE ECONO!WlY
28.       An economic memorandum giving a summary review of the economic
situation is attached. As stated in that review, Colombia is credit-
worthy for the limited amounts of external borroTuing proposed in 1966,
preferably with longer repayment terms and extended periods of grace.
PART VI - COIiPLIANCE 11ITH ARTICLES OF AGREE1,ENT
29.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PAPT VII - RECOi'I,DAT ION
30.       I recommend -that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTIONT NO.
Approval of Loan to the Banco de la Republica (Development
Finance Companies Project) in the amount of the equivalent
of US' 25,000,000 to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia
RESOLVED:
THAT the Dank shall grant a loan to the Banco de la Republica,
to be guaranteed by the Republic of Colombia, in an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty five million United States dollars
(US'; 25,000,000), to mature on and prior to December 1, 1986, to bear
interest at the rate of six per cent (659) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Development Finance Companies Project) between the Bank and Banco de la
Republica, the form of Guarantee Agreement (Development Finance Companies
Project) between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, the form of Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements (Development Finance Companies Project) between
the Banco de la Republica and Corporacion Financiera de Caldas, Corpora-
cion Financiera Colombiana, Corporacion Financiera Nacional, Corporacion
Financiera del Norte and Corporacion Financiera del Valle and the form of
Project Agreements (Development Finance Companies Project) between the
Bank and Corporacion Financiera de Caldas, Corporacion Financiera Colom-
biana, Corporacion Financiera Nacional, Corporacion Financiera del 1Torte and
Corporacion `inanciera del Valle, which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. IWToods
WTashington, D.C.                                 President
April 22,1966.



