Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053526 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Building the Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network Project) 
 
between 
 
GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN 
STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated July 15, 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053526 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 15, 2004, between the GENERAL SECRETARIAT 
OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in 
respect of grant funds provided to a fund (the GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the 
Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient is a duly established international organization and  
represents that it has the necessary legal capacity and powers to enter into this Agreement 
and perform its obligations herein set forth; 
(E) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;  
(F) 
the United States of America, through its Geological Survey (established 
within its Department of Interior), has manifested its intent to provide an in-kind 
contribution equal to six million three hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($6,350,000) (the 
US Co-financing) to finance in part the Project; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(G) 
the Participating Countries (as defined below), as ultimate beneficiaries 
of the Project, have agreed to collaborate in the execution of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) 
to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a)  The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
the first part of Section 4.01 (until the semicolon); Section 4.06; 
(v) 
Sections 5.01, 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06, 5.07, 5.08 and 5.09; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and 
(p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
the second sentence of Section 10.01, and 10.03;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the GEF; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient, except in Sections 6.02 (f) and 8.01 (b), 
where the term “Borrower” shall mean a Participating Country; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
credited;  
(vi) 
the phrase “in the territory of, the Borrower or the Guarantor” 
shall be replaced by the phrase “in the territory of, a Participating 
Country” in Section 5.08. For purposes of this subparagraph, the 
term “Participating Country” shall have the same meaning as in 
Section 1.02 (k) of this Agreement; 
(vii) 
the words “and/or the Association, as the case may be,” shall be 
added after the term “Bank” in Section 6.02 (f) (i); and 
(viii) 
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “(q) An extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the Global Environment Facility.” 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Coordinating Institution” means an entity vested with legal personality 
which will assist the Recipient in the carrying out of Part A.2 of Project; 
(b) 
“Eligible Institution” means an entity vested with legal personality which 
has been selected by the Recipient to carry out a IABIN Subproject (as defined below);  
(c) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“IABIN” means the Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network, 
an internet-based, decentralized network to provide access to scientifically credible 
biodiversity information available in selected institutions in North America, Central 
America, South America and the Caribbean, the creation of which was agreed by the 
heads of States present at the Recipient’s Summit of the Americas on Sustainable 
Development held in Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia in December 1996; 
(e) 
“IABIN Executive Committee” means the committee established by the 
IABIN Council (which council is comprised of a representative of the Recipient, a 
representative of each officially designated national focal point whose government is a 
member of the Recipient and a representative of each approved institution which meets 
the selection criteria to be part of said council) in December 1999; 
(f) 
“IABIN Secretariat” means the secretariat referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“IABIN Subproject” means any of the investments under Part B (2) of 
the Project; 
 (h) 
“IABIN Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Operating Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(j) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(k) 
“Participating Countries” means any of the countries listed in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement which have manifested, in writing, their intention to participate in the 
Project and are eligible to receive GEF funding under the Project through the GEF Trust 
Fund, as well as any other country (acceptable to the Bank) which shall manifest, in 
writing, its intention to participate in the Project and is also eligible to receive said GEF 
funding. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to six million Dollars ($6,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, maintain in Dollars 
an operating account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Operating Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall: 
(a)  
carry out Parts A, B (1), C and D of the Project with the assistance of the 
IABIN Executive Committee, the Participating Countries and the designated 
Coordinating Institutions (as the case may be), all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, financial and procurement 
Page  7
-
6
-
practices and with due regard to biodiversity, ecological and environmental factors, and 
shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for said Parts of the Project; and 
(b)  
cause the Eligible Institutions (pursuant to the terms of the pertinent 
IABIN Subproject Agreement) to carry out their corresponding IABIN Subprojects with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, technical, 
financial and procurement practices, and with due regard to biodiversity, ecological and 
environmental factors, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Eligible Institutions to carry out their pertinent IABIN Subproject, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of 
any IABIN Subproject. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, non-
consultant technical services and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out Parts A, B (1), C and D of the Project; and 
(ii) cause each Eligible Institution to carry out its corresponding IABIN Subproject, all in 
accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
contain, 
inter alia
,
the criteria for selecting and approving IABIN Subprojects, the criteria 
for selecting Eligible Institutions, the Recipient’s operating procedures, internal controls 
and accounting and reporting functions, the Project financial management, disbursement 
and procurement procedures, the IABIN Secretariat’s organizational structure, functions 
and responsibilities and the indicators to be used in the monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05. 
(a) Upon approval of a IABIN Subproject, the Recipient shall 
transfer, on a grant basis, a portion of the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds allocated to 
Category (4) (set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) to the 
pertinent Eligible Institution pursuant to an agreement (the IABIN Subproject 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and said Eligible Institution on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) 
the obligation of  the Eligible Institution:    
(A) 
to procure the goods and/or consultants’ services (as the 
case may be) in accordance with the provisions set forth 
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
(B) 
to carry out the IABIN Subproject in accordance with 
the pertinent provisions of the Operational Manual;  
(C) 
to maintain adequate records and accounts, and make 
available such documentation to the Recipient, and any 
other information that the Recipient may request in order 
to comply with its obligations under Article IV of this 
Agreement;  
(D) 
to provide the counterpart funding for those inputs not 
financed with the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds 
necessary to carry out said IABIN Subproject; and  
(E) 
to permit the staff of the Recipient and the Bank to 
supervise the pertinent IABIN Subproject; and 
(ii) 
without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) (ii) of this 
Section, the obligation of the Recipient to suspend in whole or in 
part the portion of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to finance 
a
given IABIN Subproject in case the Eligible Institution has 
failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
corresponding IABIN Subproject Agreement and/or terminate 
the IABIN Subproject Agreement (as the case may be).   
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
(i) 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under each IABIN Subproject Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
and  
(ii)  
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any IABIN Subproject Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.06. For purposes of Project monitoring and supervision, the Recipient 
shall ensure:  
(a)  
that a secretariat (the IABIN Secretariat) is established, and thereafter is 
operated and maintained, at least during Project implementation, with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (as set forth in the Operational 
Manual); and  
(b)  
that the IABIN Secretariat is, at all times during Project implementation, 
headed by a Director, and assisted by other adequate professional and administrative 
staff, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.  
Section 3.07. 
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall:  
(a)  
not later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in the year 2004, prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual work program, 
acceptable to the Bank, containing the Project activities to be carried out during the 
calendar year following the date of presentation of said program to the Bank, and a 
timetable for the completion of said Project activities during the year in question;  
(b)  
thereafter carry out or cause to be carried out said program in accordance 
with its terms, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank, and  
(c) 
carry out or cause to be carried out the annual work program for the year 
2004 as approved by the Bank prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Section 3.08. The Recipient shall: 
Page  10
-
9
-
(a) 
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators 
set forth in the Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare with the assistance of the IABIN Secretariat and the 
Coordinating Institutions, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank: (i) not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the 
Effective Date a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the six-month period preceding the date 
of presentation of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the following six-month period; and (ii) not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
calendar semester, a report, which report shall contain the same type of information 
requested under the report mentioned in said subparagraph; and   
(c) 
not later than thirty calendar days after the date of presentation of each 
report mentioned in paragraph (b) above or such later date as the Bank shall request, 
review with the Bank and the Coordinating Institutions the pertinent report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take, and/or cause to be taken, all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports and the 
Bank’s views on the matter. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
 
(b) 
Upon the  Bank’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements), audited, for the 
period indicated in the Bank’s request, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  11
-
10
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit:  (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section for such period as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the end of the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:  
(a) 
Any Participating Country shall have failed to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of 
Project activities within its territory.  
(b) 
Any Coordinating Institution shall have failed to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying out of 
any activity under Part A.2 of the Project, provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that 
the relevant Coordinating Institution has been promptly replaced by another Coordinating 
Institution in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
(c) 
The United States of America, through its Geological Survey, shall have 
failed to provide the US Co-financing, provided, however, that the provisions of this 
paragraph shall not apply if the Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that 
adequate funds for the Project are available from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement. 
(d) 
Any Participating Country, or any other authority having jurisdiction, 
shall have taken any action, including the enactment or issuance of legislation or 
regulations, which, in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project.  
(e) 
Any Participating Country shall have failed to afford a reasonable 
opportunity for representatives of the Bank to visit any part of its territory for purposes 
related to the Project. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE VI 
Arbitration 
Section 6.01. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance 
with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place 
of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C.  In the event of a conflict between the 
UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall govern. 
ARTICLE VII 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions of this 
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: 
(a)  
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Recipient; and 
(b)  
the IABIN Secretariat has been established as provided in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement.  
Section 7.02. The date, October 13, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 8.01. The Secretary General (
Secretario General
)
of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section 
8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
General Secretariat of the Organization of American States 
Unit of Sustainable Development and Environment 
1889 F Street, N.W.  
Washington, D.C.  20006  
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
OAS 
64128   
202-458-3560 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF 
AMERICAN STATES 
By /s/ Luigi R. Einaudi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT, as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean  
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods other than                                           30,000  
100% as per  
 
under IABIN Subprojects     
 
paragraph  6  below                                                                  
(2) 
Consultants’ services other 
2,970,000 
100% as per   
 
than under IABIN Subprojects                                              
paragraph 6 below 
 
(3)  Non-consultant technical                            640,000 
100% as per  
 services 
 
 paragraph 
6 
below 
 
(4)  Goods and/or Consultants’ services  
1,370,000 
100% as per 
 
under IABIN Subprojects 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(5)  Training 
 
 
 
570,000 
100% as per 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
(6)  Operating Costs 
 
 
          420,000 
100% as per 
 
paragraph 6 below 
 
________
TOTAL 
 
 
       6,000,000
2.          For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “Non-consultant technical services” means expenditures 
incurred related to the logistic arrangements of meetings, and in providing the required 
training, under the Project;  
Page  17
-
16
-
(b) 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for 
consultants’ services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation costs 
and per-diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities and 
equipment under the Project; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means reasonable recurrent expenditures that 
would not have been incurred by the Recipient absent the Project, for transportation and 
per-diem costs of its staff, Project administration costs, operation and maintenance of 
office equipment, and non-durable goods, all needed for the implementation of the 
Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :  
(a)  
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b)  
payments made for expenditures in respect of a IABIN Subproject under 
Category (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the 
corresponding IABIN Subproject Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts 
for goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent each with the exception of the 
first contract for goods to be procured under Part C (a) of Section I of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; (b) under contracts for non-consultant technical services estimated to cost 
less than $250,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract for non-
consultant technical services to be procured under Part C (b) of Section I of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; (c) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract for the 
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent; (d) 
under contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent; (e) under Training and Operating Costs as set forth in Categories (5) 
and (6) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  18
-
17
-
6. 
In case the Recipient loses its tax exempt status, the percentage financed shall be 
reduced to 85%.  
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop IABIN; and (b) to provide the 
necessary instruments to draw knowledge from the information contained in the network 
mentioned in (a) herein, which information will support sound decision-making 
concerning the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
Interoperability and Access to Data
1. 
Establishment of a catalog service to locate and access biological data and 
information from across North America, Central America, South America and the 
Caribbean, including but not limited to, the development of metadata creation tools in 
multiple languages, the modification of existing multilingual user interfaces (as needed), 
the operation and maintenance of said catalog service, the development of multilingual 
training materials concerning the operation of said catalog service and the creation of a 
technical advisory group (including the carrying out of workshops for said group). 
2. 
Establishment of the following six thematic networks (specimen, species, 
ecosystems, invasive species, pollinators and protected areas), each of which to be 
integrated with each other, including but not limited to the development of policies, tools, 
standards and protocols to access, analyze and use information concerning said thematic 
networks that is located in institutions throughout North America, Central America, 
South America and the Caribbean, the design and installation of a web site in a central 
server, the provision of training for web administrators, the development of software for 
data providers, the operation and maintenance of said thematic networks and the 
development of multilingual training materials concerning the operation of said thematic 
networks. 
Part B
:
Data Content Creation
Design and implementation of a content development program in Participating 
Countries for purposes of improving the availability of critical data and metadata (which 
program shall consist of, 
inter alia
:
(1) the provision of technical assistance and training 
to Participating Countries to develop and implement quality controls concerning access to 
data and metadata through IABIN; and (2) the carrying out of investments for purposes of 
improving the availability of critical biodiversity data and metadata through IABIN). 
Page  20
-
19
-
Part C
:
Information Tools for Decision-Making
1. 
Design of value-added applications that will demonstrate to decision makers in 
Participating Countries how the data and information to be maintained in, and provided 
by, IABIN could be effectively used in the decision-making process. 
2. 
Identification of socio-economic data relevant to biodiversity (such as land-use 
databases) and development of tools to permit IABIN users to access said information 
through IABIN in an integrated manner. 
3. 
Identification of information products at the regional level which would allow 
IABIN users to visualize and analyze data and information in an interactive and non-
interactive approach. 
4. 
Design of models which will permit IABIN users to utilize data and develop 
scenarios for decision makers based on said models. 
Part D
:
Sustainability of IABIN
1. 
(a) Strengthening of the operational and administrative capacity of the IABIN 
Secretariat in order to assist the Recipient in the monitoring and supervision of the 
Project; (b) design and implementation of a strategy for IABIN’s financial sustainability; 
and (c) if applicable, provision of technical assistance to carry out any audit referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
2. 
Promotion of partnerships amongst IABIN’s Secretariat, Participating Countries 
and other stakeholders (including indigenous peoples) through, 
inter alia,
 the active 
participation in workshops, meetings and negotiations of agreements (all related to key 
global and regional biodiversity initiatives), the design and implementation of a 
communications strategy to promote IABIN’s objectives, the design and implementation 
of a strategy to promote the inclusion of indigenous peoples in IABIN, and the 
establishment, operation and maintenance of a IABIN web-based portal. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement  and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Technical Services 
Part A
:
General
Goods and non-consultant technical services shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and non-consultant 
technical services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
Shopping
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, at the Recipient’s option, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
Non-consultant technical services estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures, at the Recipient’s option, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
Page  22
-
21
-
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and non-consultant technical services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and non-consultant technical 
services to be procured under Part B of this Section, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods and the first contract for non-
consultant technical services to be procured under Part C of this Section, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to requesting quotations from suppliers under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank the document 
requesting quotations which shall indicate the description and the 
quantity of the goods, and the time and place of delivery of the 
same; 
(ii) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
Page  23
-
22
-
revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services of individual consultants for the Project that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, or may be selected on a sole-
source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
Page  24
-
23
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, or to be selected on a 
sole source basis, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates or the letter of justification (in case of sole sourcing), terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Operating Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of  the Project; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $600,000 to be 
withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Operating 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments made with GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds out of the Operating 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the  Operating Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Operating Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Operating Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Operating Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Operating 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  26
-
25
-
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Operating Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Operating Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient with GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds 
out of the Operating Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Operating Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories  
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
Page  27
-
26
-
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Operating Account (in 
respect of the Project) as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made 
with GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds out of the Operating Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Operating Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Bank into the Operating Account shall be made until the Recipient has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any GEF Trust Fund 
Grant proceeds outstanding in the Operating Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the GEF Trust Fund Grant funds on deposit in the Operating Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  28
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Participating Countries 
1) 
Antigua and Barbuda 
 
2) Argentine 
Republic 
3) 
Commonwealth of The Bahamas 
4) Barbados 
5) 
Republic of Chile 
6) 
Republic of Costa Rica 
7) Dominican 
Republic 
8) 
Republic of Ecuador 
9) 
Republic of El Salvador 
10) Grenada 
11) 
Republic of Guatemala 
12) 
Co-operative Republic of Guyana 
13) 
Republic of Haiti 
14) 
United Mexican States 
15) 
Republic of Nicaragua 
16) 
Republic of Panama 
17) 
Republic of Peru 
18) Saint 
Lucia 
19) 
Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis 
20) 
Republic of Suriname 
21) 
República Oriental del Uruguay 
22) 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
Reynaldo Pastor 
M:\REGIONAL\847- IABIN Project\847-GA.doc 
April 22, 2004 9:51 AM
 
