                                          Documentof
                                        The World Bank

                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                       ReportNo: 28936-LCR




                               PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                              ONA

          PROPOSEDGRANTFROMTHE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY

                               INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$6MILLION

                                            TO THE

                            ORGANIZATIONOFAMERICAN STATES

                                            FORTHE

    BUILDINGTHE INTER-AMERICANBIODIVERSITYINFORMATIONNETWORK
                                        (IABIN) PROJECT

                                          June 29,2004




Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion


This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmaybeusedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance
oftheir official duties. Its contents maynototherwise bedisclosedwithout WorldBank
authorization

                     CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective)
                        Currency Unit = U S dollar




                             FISCAL YEAR
                                 FY04 -- FY09


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS         Country Assistance Strategy (World Bank)
CBD         Convention on Biological Diversity
CCAD        Central American Commission for Environment and Development
CEC         Commission for Environmental Cooperation(North America)
C I         Coordinating Institution (of an IABINThematic Network)
C H M       Clearing-House Mechanism
CITES       Convention on InternationalTrade inEndangered Species of Wild Fauna
            and Flora
CONABIO     Mexican National Biodiversity Commission (Comisidn Nacionalpara el
            Conocimiento y Us0de la Biodiversidad)
COP         Conference o fthe Parties (Convention on BiologicalDiversity)
CRLA        Reference Center onEnvironmentalInformation (Centro de Refergncia
            em Informaqio Ambiental) (Brazil)
DFS         Department of Financial Services (OAS)
DWA         Direct Withdrawal Application
EBA         Endemic BirdArea (BirdLife)
EU          European Union
FGDC        Federal Geographic Data Committee (US)
FMR         Financial Monitoring Report
GBIF        Global Biodiversity InformationFacility
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GIS         Geographic Information System
GISP        Global Invasive Species Programme
GStOAS      General Secretariat of the Organization o f American States
GSD         Global SpeciesDatabase
13N         IABINInvasives InformationNetwork
IABIN       Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
IAS         Invasive Alien Species
IAvH        Alexander von Humboldt Biological Resources ResearchInstitute
            (Instituto de Investigaciones Bioldgicas Alexander von Humboldt)
            (Colombia)
IBRD/IDA    International Bank for Reconstructionand Development /International
            Development Association
IEC         IABINExecutive Committee
INBio       National Biodiversity Institute (Instituto Nacional deBiodiversidad)
            (Costa Rica)
ITIS        IntegratedTaxonomic Information System



                                     11

     IUCN              World ConservationUnion           FOROFFICIAL USEOrmy
     M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
     MA                MillenniumEcosystemAssessment
     MAB               Programme on Man andthe Biosphere (UNESCO)
     MABNet Americas   Man and the Biosphere Network inthe Americas
     NABIN             NorthAmerican Biodiversity InformationNetwork
     NASA              National Aeronautics and Space Agency (US)
     NBII              National Biological InformationInfrastructure (US)
     NGO               Non-governmental Organization
     OAS               Organization of American States
     OAS-CIDS          OAS Committee on SustainableDevelopment
     OASES             OAS Enterprise System
     OM                Operational Manual
     PDF               Project Preparation and Development Facility (GEF)
     PIP               Project ImplementationPlan
     PO                PurchaseOrder
     PSR               Project Supervision Report (World Bank)
     R A M S A R       The ConventiononWetlands
     REMIB             World InformationNetworkon Biodiversity (Red Mundial de
                       Informacidn sobreBiodiversidad)
     RINCIS            Rationalizationof InternationalNature Conservation Information
                       Systems
     S I A M           MesoamericanEnvironmental Information System(Sistema de
                       Informacidn Ambiental Mesoamericano)
     SOE               Statement of Expenditures
     STAP              Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (GEF)
     TEK               Traditional Environmental Knowledge
     TN                Thematic Network o f IABIN
     TNC               The NatureConservancy
     TORS              Terms of Reference
     TSA               The SpeciesAnalyst
     UN                UnitedNations
     UNDP              UnitedNations DevelopmentProgramme
     UNEP              UnitedNations Environment Programme
     UNEP-WCMC         UNEP-WorldConservation MonitoringCenter
     UNESCO            UnitedNations Education, Science, and Cultural Organization
     USDE              Unitfor SustainableDevelopmentandEnvironment (OAS)
     USGS              UnitedStates Geologcal Survey
     WB                World Bank
     WSSD              World Summit on Sustainable Development
     XML               Extended Markup Language




                               Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                              Sector Director:     JohnRedwood
                              Sector Manager:      Abel Mejia
    f                          Task Manager:       Douglas J. Graham

This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


      LATINAMERICA: BUILDINGTHE INTER-AMERICANBIODIVERSITY
                            INFORMATIONNETWORK(IABIN)

                                         CONTENTS

A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                2
   1, Project development objective                                            2
   2. Keyperformance indicators                                                3

B. Strategic Context                                                           3
   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe    3
     project
   2. Main sector issues and government strategy                               5
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices        6

C. ProjectDescription Summary
   1. Project components
   2. Keypolicy and institutionalreforms supported by the project
   3. Benefits andtarget population
   4. Institutional and implementationarrangements

D.ProjectRationale                                                             12
   1. Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection                 12
   2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development      12
     agencies
   3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                        13
   4. Indications o fborrower andrecipient commitment and ownership            13
   5. Value added of Bank and Global support inthis project                    14

E. Summary Project Analysis                                                    14
   1. Economic                                                                 14
   2. Financial                                                                14
   3. Technical                                                                15
   4. Institutional                                                            15
   5. Environmental                                                            15
   6. Social                                                                   16
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                       16

F. Sustainability andRisks                                                     17
   1. Sustainability                                                           17
   2. Critical risks                                                           20
   3. Possible controversialaspects                                            21

G. MainGrant Conditions                                                        22
   1. Effectiveness Conditions                                                 22
   2. Other                                                                    22

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                 22

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                   22



                                               iv

Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                  23
Annex 2:  DetailedProject Description                                            27
Annex 3:  EstimatedProject Costs                                                 39
Annex 4:  Incremental Cost Analysis                                              44
Annex 5:  Financial Summary                                                      47
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                            48
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                    52
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                             59
Annex 8:  Documents inthe Project File                                           60
Annex 9:  IndigenousPeoples and MIN                                              61
Annex 10: Review of Key Bilateraland Multilateral Programs and Initiatives in    66
          Biodiversity Information Sharing




                                           V

                                                 LATINAMERICA
                     Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity InformationNetwork (IAI3IN)

                                      Project AppraisalDocument
                                       Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                                      LCSEN
Date: June 3,2004                                         Team Leader: Douglas J. Graham
Sector Manager: Abel Mejia                                Sector(s): Informationtechnology (100%)
Sector Director: John Redwood                             Theme(s): Biodiversity (P)
Project ID:PO77187


 [ 3 Loan        [ ] Credit      [XI Grant       [ ] Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $6.0 million(GEF). Parallel financing of $28.9 millionfrom 78 regionalhational
institutions has been identified.O fthis amount, $9.7 million i s own-managed "core" parallel financing to
co-implement key actions under the project (including parallel financing from the US.Government, the
Recipient, someNGOs,and the host ofthe Secretariat). $19.2 millioni s own-managed parallel financing
from institutions that will be disbursingtheir funds for the execution o f activities infurtherance of L4BI"s
goals and inpartnership with the Recipient (all parallel financing will be verified through a comprehensive
tracking system).


GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTFACILITY                                      3.OO                  3.OO              6.00
US, GOV. OF                                                     0.00                  6.35              6.35
FOREIGNMULTILATERALINSTITUTIONS                                 0.00                  1.38              1.38
(UNIDENTIFIED)
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION                                     5.72                  9.10             14.82


 BorrowerlRecipient:OAS
The OAS acts on behalf of the IABINCouncil.
 Responsibleagency: OAS
Address: 17 Street and Constitution Ave., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20006
Contact Person: RichardHuber
Tel: 202-458-3227                 Fax: 202-458-3560                   Email: rhuber@,Oas.OrEI




>oesthe project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Re$ PAD I                       oYes e%
lave these been approved by Bank management?                                               oYes e%
s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                 oYes e%



                                                     1

[Doesthe project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?                 1-       o N o
Re$ PAD F.2
Does the project meet the Regionalcriteria for readiness for implementation? Re$             o Yes  *
PAD H
Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 1
 1)To develop anInternet-based,decentralizednetwork to provide access to biodiversityinformationcurrentlyexisting
inindividualinstitutionsandagenciesintheAmericas,2)
To providethe tools necessaryto draw knowledge fromthat wealth ofresourcesto support sounddecision-malung
conceming the conservationandsustainableuse ofbiodiversity

Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD C.1, TechnicalAnnex 2
 Component 1,InteroperabilityandAccess to Data,will develop basic data standardsandnetwork
infrastructure that will allow users to searchand access biodiversity data and information.
Component2, Data ContentCreation,will provide dataproviders the tools, training, andphysical capacio
to make data available to users through the network.
Component3, InformationTools for DecisionMakers,will provide visualization and data integration
tools to improve the usability o f the data inthe decision makingprocess.
Component 4, Sustainability ofIABIN, includes project coordination, support for partnerships and
communications and funding, on a declining cost basis, for the position of Director of the Secretariat.
 Component 5, Administration,covers strictly administrative costs ofthe ExecutingAgency (contracting,
procurement, disbursements, audits, etc.).

 Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD E.7
 Not Applicable
 Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for effectiveness Re$ PAD G.1; 1) An Operational Manual,
 satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved by the Executing Agency.
2) The IABINSecretariat hasbeenestablishedby the IEC and is functionally operating.

Board presentation: June 29,2004

Loadcrediteffectiveness:

 Covenants applicable to project implementation:




                                                       2

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Inter-American Biodiversity InformationNetwork (IABIN)was officially mandated at the
Summit ofthe Americas on SustainableDevelopment, convened inSantaCruz de la Sierra,
Bolivia, inDecember 1996. To support the development of IABIN,this GEF project seeks to: (i)
consolidate the development of this Intemet-based, decentralized network to provide wider access
to scientifically credible biodiversity information currently existing inindividual institutions and
agenciesinthe Americas, (ii)    provide the tools necessaryto draw knowledge from that wealth of
resources, which intum will support sound decision-makingconcerning the conservation and
sustainable use o fbiodiversity. Indoing so, this project will directly support implementation o f
Articles 7, 16, 17 and 18 of the Convention on Biological Diversity(CBD), andinparticular the
development and implementationofthe Clearing-House Mechanism (CHM) which the Convention
has established to promote and facilitate technical and scientific cooperation (Article 17(3)).

The project will implementIABINat aregional levelthrough:

0       Assessing the information needs of the biodiversity community, decisionmakers, and
        stakeholders inthe region;
0       Promoting a set of standards, protocols, tools, and methodologies (those o f GBIF or CHM
        or others, as appropriate) that will enhance the ability to search, retrieve, andanalyze
        information across networks (including georeferenceddata, quantitativeand qualitative
        data, information, and knowledge);
0       Digitizingrelevant data heldinnon-electronic forms, thereby increasing the amount of
        biodiversity information accessible through the network;
0       Exchangingscientific expertise through collaborativeprojects and training and other
        efforts to buildcapacity inhuman and technologicalresources;
0       Producingtools to support decision-making; and
0       Supportingdevelopment and implementation of the CBD CHM at bothregional and
        national levels inline with the Articles of the Convention and decisions of the Conference
        of Parties (COP).

The benefits are numerous. IABINwill:

0       Promote and facilitate access to the informationnecessaryfor ensuringconservation and
        sustainable use ofbiological diversity inall appropriate sectors including agriculture,
        tourism, and forestry;
0       Improve regional cooperation for biodiversity management through sharing o f knowledge
        and expertise;
0       Provide the capacity to addresscritical issues-invasive     species, migratory species, and the
        spread o f diseases, among others -at a regional level;
0       Support local and national decision-making;
0       Allow the identification o f gaps inknowledge andnew fields o f interest and facilitate
        consensus-building on a research agenda to support biodiversity conservation;
0       Improve the quality of biodiversity projects (both at preparation and duringsupervision) in
        the portfolio o f the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the World Bank, and other
        financiers;
0       Helpthe CBD (through the CHM) and other relevant conventions fulfilltheir mandates;
        and



                                                   3

a        Deliver information that supports the implementation of certain CBD decisions and
         programs of work.

2. Key performanceindicators:(see Annex 1)
Keyperformance indicators arenotedonthe LogicalFrameworkinAnnex 1.


B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-relatedCountryAssistanceStrategy(CAS) goal supportedbythe project: (see
Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 23084             Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
The LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean RegionEnvironmentStrategy (June 2002) ofthe World
Bankhas four development objectives. The proposed project particularly supports the third
objective of "development of enabling frameworks for sound environmentalmanagement". The
Strategy states that this objective would be promotedby mainstreaming efforts including
supporting targeted institution buildingsuch as promotion of decision-support systems (priority-
setting tools and outcome-oriented monitoring systems). This project implementsthis part of the
Environment Strategy as it will help provide the informatics infrastructureandbiodiversity
information content requiredby the countries of the Americas to informtheir decision-malung.


la. Global Operational strategyll'rogramobjectiveaddressed by the project:
The IABINproject is abiodiversity enablingactivity as defined inthe GEF Operational Strategy:

    Enabling activities in biodiversity are those that prepare thefoundation to design and
    implement effective response measure to achieve Convention objectives. They will assist
    recipient countries to develop national strategies, plans or programs... and to identifi
    components of biodiversity together withprocesses and activities likely to have signijicant
    adverse impact on conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity...

The mainpurpose of IABIN,to create an information-rich enablingenvironment for conservation
and sustainable use o fbiodiversity inthe Americas, fits perfectly the GEF definition o f an enabling
activity for biodiversity conservation. IABIN's strategic focus supports capacity buildingof
regional, national and local partner institutions that provide data. IABINalso promotesthematic
fora and development o f information products and services to assist decision making.

The GEF's recentlypublishedBiodiversity Strategic Prioritieshighlightthe needfor "Generation
and dissemination o fbest practices for addressing current and emergingbiodiversity issues." The
GEF recognizes that effective sharing of information andknowledge is very importantto produce
furtherimprovements inresults onthe ground. IABINas ahemispheric network addresses this
issue, helpingto ensure that state-of-the-art information i s made available ina timely and effective
manner to support decision-malung. Knowledge networks will emerge linkingparticipating country
government agencies, NGOs, scientific institutions, and the private sector, and north-south and
south-south exchange o f information will be promoted. These networks are conducive to produce
regional syntheses on conservation practices and sustainable use o f a variety of biodiversity
resources such as coastal and marine biodiversity, biological diversity important to agriculture,
forest ecosystems, etc.




                                                    4

IABINworks hand-in-hand withthe CHM(Clearing-House Mechanism) ofthe Conventionon
Biological Diversity(1992). The Convention has established CHM to:

0        Promote and facilitate technical and scientific cooperation, within andbetween countries;
0        Develop a global mechanismfor exchanging and integrating information on biodiversity;
         and
0        Develop the necessaryhuman andtechnologicalnetwork.

IABINsupports the implementationofmeasuresnecessaryfor achievement ofthe CBD's
objectives, inparticular through support for:

0        Article 7 on identificationand monitoring;
0        Article 16 on access to and transfer of technology;
0        Article 17on exchange of information; and
0        Article 18 on technical and scientific cooperation.

The Convention also carries out its work through a series of six thematic programs ofwork which
cover: dry and sub-humidlands; forests; inland waters; marine and coastal ecosystems; mountains;
and agricultural biodiversity. There are also a series of cross-cutting issues which include: alien
invasive species; Global Strategy for Plant Conservation; Global Taxonomy Initiative; protected
areas; indicators; Communication, Educationand Public Awareness; and sustainable use. The
networking o f information and expertise within IABINwill facilitate these programs and
initiatives. For example, the IABINInvasives InformationNetwork (I3N) collaborates with the
Global Invasive Species Programme, and will help support implementation of the "Guiding
Principles" adopted by the CBD Conference o fParties.

Cooperation between IABINand the CHM has been the subject of a comprehensive Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) signed in2002. The activities proposed for the implementation of IABIN
will help fulfill, at the regionallevel, CHM's goals o f facilitating the exchange ofbiodiversity-
relevant information, and promoting and facilitating technical and scientific cooperation within and
betweenthe countries. The CBD Secretariathasbeen an invitedparticipant inIABINconsultations
since the first experts' meetinginDecember 1997, and IABINNational Focal Points are commonly
the CHM National Focal Points for their respective countries.

IABINthussupportsthe implementationofmeasuresnecessaryfor achievement ofthe
Convention's goals, targets, and objectives as defined inthe Articles of the Convention (Article 16:
Access to and Transfer o f Technology, Article 17: Exchange of Information, and Article 18:
Technical and Scientific Cooperation), the Strategic Plan, and the decisions of the Conference of
Parties. The Convention has various work programs basedon the work o f the Subsidiary Body on
Scientific, Technical andTechnological Advice (SBSTTA) andthe COP, and this i s necessarily
reflectedinthe work o f CHM. The networking o f IABINexperts facilitate these work programs
and cross-cutting issues. IABIN's Thematic Networks support the six thematic work programs and
cross-cutting issues o f the Convention.

Through the support providedto the CBD, IABINalso promotes better decision-mahng inother
sectors o f interest to the GEF, such as the UnitedNations Convention to Combat Desertification.
IABINis also ofpotentialvalue inthe implementationofa wide range ofother intemational
conventions and programs including the RAMSAR Convention on Wetlands, the Convention on
Migratory Species, and the UnitedNations Education, Science, and Cultural Organization
(UNESCO) Manand the Biosphere (MAB)Programme.



                                                   5

IABI"s     objectives also promote the World Summit on SustainableDevelopment(WSSD) Planof
Implementation, and inparticular:

0         Paragraph44 on the conservation and sustainableuse of biodiversity;
0
*         Paragraph 106 on improving the transfer of technologies to developing countries;
          Paragraphs 109 and 110 on improvingthe use o f information inassessment and decision-
          malung; and
0         Paragraph 112 on improving access to information through information and
          communicationtechnologies.

In2002, the CBDadoptedatargetofsignificantlyreducingtherateofbiodiversitylossbytheyear
2010, and this target was subsequently endorsedby WSSD inthe Plan of Implementation.Means
o f assessingprogress inachievingthis target are still under discussion, but whatever these means
are, IABINwill be well placedto support assessmentandreportinginitiatives.

2. Mainsector issuesandGovernmentstrategy:
Many environmental issues are intemational incharacter, and addressingthem requires the
development of regionaland global perspectives. Speciesmigrate across geopolitical borders.
Watersheds and ecosystemscut acrossnationalborders. Intemational travel and transportation
facilitate the introductionof species ingeographic areas far beyond their native habitats, often with
a negative impact. Actions taken inone country affect its neighbor's efforts to conserve
biodiversity. To meet these challenges, the countries of the Americas need to work together to
develop integrated approachesto biodiversity conservation and sustainable use.

Intheearly 1990s,various countriesoftheAmericas wereinterestedinimprovingthesharingof
biodiversity information acrossnational borders. Several countries were establishing national
biodiversity information infrastructures to helpthemmeet their obligations underthe CBD, other
treaty obligations, and their own intemal conservation and development objectives. Senior officials
recognized that collaborationamong countries could enhancelocal initiatives, provide accessto a
greater store o f information, eliminate duplication o f effort, and leverage the scarceresources
available to address information needs. BothAgenda 21 and the CBD called for cooperation inthe
production and dissemination of information needed for the conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity.

IABINwas therefore officiallymandatedbythe Headsof Stateat the OAS Summitofthe
Americas on SustainableDevelopment, heldinSanta Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia, inDecember 1996.
Initiative 31 of the Santa Cruz Plan o f Action states that the govemments o f the Americas should:

     Seek to establish an Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network,primarily through the
     Internet, that willpromote compatible means of collection, communication, and exchange of
     information relevant to decision-makingand education on biodiversity conservation, and that
     builds upon such initiatives as the Clearing-HouseMechanismprovidedfor in the United
     Nations Convention on Biological Diversity, the Man and Biosphere Network in the Americas
     (MABNet Americas), and the Biodiversity Conservation Information System (BCIS), an
     initiative of nineprograms of the World Conservation Union (IUCN)andpartner
     organizations.

It isnoteworthy that IABINwas specifically intendedto buildonthe CHM.The latter operates
within the complex political and institutional environmento fthe CBD but i s worldwide inscope,



                                                   6

not focused on the Americas, and has limitedtechnical capacity. Thisproject supports a series of
actions that will help build a close collaborative relationship betweenIABINand the CHM,
potentially leading to a more formal alignment inthe future.

The Organization of American States (OAS), inits coordinating role for Summit follow-up, invited
each country to designate an official IABINFocal Point; to date, virtually all o f the 34 member
States of the OAS have done so (see http://www.iabin.net for a complete list). IABINwas
considered officially launched when the OAS Inter-American Committee on Sustainable
Development (OAS-CIDS) endorsedIABIN,ina resolutionpassedon October 15, 1999.

IABINwas also recently strongly supported inthe Ministerialcommuniquk to the Heads of State
and delegations attending the Summit of the Americas which ledto the endorsement of IABINin
the April 2003 Quebec Presidential Summit Planof Action. The Plan of Action resolvedto:

    Advance hemispheric conservation of plants, animals and ecosystems through, as appropriate:
    capacity building, expandingpartnership networks and information sharing systems, including
    the Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network; cooperation in thefight against illegal
    trade in wildlife; strengthening of cooperation arrangementsfor terrestrial and marine natural
    protected areas, including adjacent border parks and important areasfor shared species;
    supportfor regional ecosystemconservation mechanisms; the development of a hemispheric
    strategy to support the conservation of migratory wildlife throughout the Americas, with the
    active engagement of civil society; and thepromotion of the objectives and the implementation
    of the Convention on Biological Diversity and the UNConvention to Combat Desertification.

A great deal ofmore detailed backgroundinformationonIABINi s available inthe Project
ImplementationPlan (PIP) and inother documents, available on the network's web site
(http://www,iabin.net).

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
To achieve hemispheric information-sharingneeds, the project supports the implementation of
IABIN,initiallyproposedbythe Summitofthe Americas. Itisbelievedthat IABINisthebest
instrument to achieve the sector goals becauseof its integrationwith the C H M and the Global
Biodiversity InformationFacility (GBIF: see http://www.gbif.org), tremendous support from
governments (as shownby statementsfrom the Summit of the Americas on Sustainable
Development and official endorsement from 29 countries for the IABINproject), NGOs, and
academic and scientific institutions.
The project will strategically focus ondata standardsandprotocols (the basic information
infrastructure for exchange of data), training and capacity building,network content, partnerships
withregional andnational organizations/initiatives, andhavingan impact on decision-making.
IABINhaschosenthat the project shallnot include equipment investments, except those critical for
the implementationo fnetwork-wide applications, as these arebestmetbythe project's national
counterparts. Needs such as telecommunicationnetworks are beyond the scope o f this project.
Although focused on biodiversity information, the project includes extensive fundingto develop
linksandpartnerships withnon-biodiversitycommunities, inorder to foster and support arangeof
development and poverty alleviation goals.
Other networks exist or have beenproposed for the Americas but IABINfills a distinct niche
occupied byno other network. Inaddition, as a highly decentralized network, strongly supported
politically and institutionally, rather than a more traditional centralizednetwork, we judge the
sustainability of LABINto be highcompared to other network initiatives.


                                                    7

C. Project Description Summary
1.Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for adetailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The following i s a description o fthe proposed project components.

Component1($1,720,000 GEF funds), InteroperabilityandAccess to Data,will develop basic
data standardsandnetwork infrastructure that will allow users to search and access biodiversity
data andinformation through the IABINCatalog Service andthe Thematic Networks.
Component2 ($2,465,000), DataContent Creation,will provide dataprovidersthe tools,
training, andphysical capacity to make data available to users through the network.
Component3 ($500,000), InformationTools for DecisionMakers,will providevisualization
and data integration tools to improve the usability o f the data inthe decision malungprocess.
Component4 ($913,600), SustainabilityofIABIN, includes project coordination, support for
partnerships and communications (communication products, such as the IABINPortal,
publications, meetings, etc.) and funding, on a decliningcost basis, for the position o f Director o f
the Secretariat.
Component5 ($400,000), Administration,covers strictly administrativecosts ofthe Executing
Agency (contracting, procurement, disbursements, audits, etc.).




                   Total Financing Required      34.93       100.0     0.00       0.0       6.00     100.0




2. Keypolicyandinstitutionalreformssupportedbythe project:
At a global andhemispheric level, conventions andpolicies are inplaceto promotethe exchange
and use o f biological information (CBD, GBIF, Summit o f the Americas, etc.). The project will
support advancesto national institutional policies interms of data sharing, data access, and
increasing opportunities for efficient use of information in decision-malung relevant to biodiversity
and the environment. Suchreforms however are not considered prerequisites to the implementation
of IABIN.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
An investment inIABINwill result inglobal benefits considerably exceeding those that would
likely accrue over the next decade through national efforts alone. Some of these national and global
benefits are covered inAnnex 4 on Incremental Costs. All the countries and territories inthe
Americas will benefit directly and/or indirectly from this project, especially communities whose


                                                   8

development depends on biodiversity resources,people who are vulnerable to natural disasters,
students and the scientific community, andpolicy makers. See also the section on Sustainability for
a table of the incentives that drive the participation inIABINo f different groups of stakeholders.


4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
Organizations responsible for the project include the World Bank as an Implementing Agency o f
the GEF, the IABINCouncil and the IABINExecutiveCommittee (IEC) as key policy guidance
forums, the OAS as the ExecutingAgency and Recipientof the grant funds inrepresentation o fthe
IABINCouncil, IABIN's Secretariat(based at The City ofKnowledge, PanamaCity), the
Coordinating Institutions (CIS) o f the Thematic Networks, and the govemments and non-
govemmental institutions ofthe Americas who are bothdata-providers and informationusers. The
following texts briefly elaborate their roles (see more detailed texts in the PIP) andthe following
graphic illustrates their roles.

ImplementingAgency
The IABINCouncil hasrequestedthat the World Bankbethe ImplementingAgency for this
project. The Bankwill receive funds from the GEF and disbursethem to the ExecutingAgency. It
will also have a strong role inthe technical and administrative oversight ofthe Project.

IABINCouncilandIABINExecutiveCommittee(IEC)
IABINoperatesthroughamembership assembly calledthe IABINCouncil whichcomprises:
  0     national focal points (at present, thirty-four countries have officially designated IABIN
        focal points);
  0     representatives from organizations, centers, institutions or initiatives o f global or
        intemational scope;
  0     a representative of the diplomatic host organization (OAS); and
  0      a representative o fthe Clearing-House Mechanism.

The Council meets about once per year, or as it determines, andmakes all decisions regarding
IABIN.The IABINExecutiveCommittee (IEC) guidestheoperations ofIABINbetweenCouncil
meetings and executesthe policy decisions ofthe IABINCouncil. The Executive Committee
consists of nine voting members, including:
  0     the Council Chair (presently the US.)andVice-Chair (presently Jamaica);
  0     govemmental representation elected at large (presently Antigua & Barbuda, Brazil,
        Argentina, Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Peru); and
  0     a non-governmental representative (presentlyGBIF).




                                                    9

                IABIN Project Institutional Structure & Responsibilities

I                                I         I                             I
1                               1                                        I
      IABIN Council                           IABIN Executive
   Representedby 34 National .                                                         Financierand Implementing
          Focal Points                              Committee


    EstablishIABIN Policy                     RepresentIABIN Council                   GEF funds "Building IABIN
    Annual Council meetings                   OperationalizeIABIN                      Project"
    Promoteand support                        policy and overseethe                    WB disbursesfunds to the

    IABINwithin countries                     Project                                  ExecutingAgency
                                                                                       WB oversees technical and




                    IABIN Secretariat                                                    OAS
                                                                              ExecutingAgency & Recipient


       Supports IABINCouncil and IEC
       Supports IABIN Focal Points                                         Executesthe Projectin coordinationwith
       Day-to-dayimplementationof the Project                              IABINSecretariat
       Coordinatepartnersand networks                                      Reportsto WB andto IEC
       Liaisewith Global playerssuch as CBD-CHMand
       GBlF




                                              invasives, pollinators, protected areas)
   'Oordinating
    of Thematicinstitutions
                      Networks                Coordinatetechnology transfer on a regional basis and facilitatethe
                                              inclusionof biodiversitythemes in national agendas




 1        Data Providers                       Digitizerelevantdata held in non-electronicforms basedon IABlN
                                               standards and formats




         I                            BiodiversityInformation Users                                         I
                                                                                                            I




Chart showing the lines of authority, responsibility,interrelationshipsamong participantsand the IABIN Network
in accordancewith various decision making process (policy, financial and technical procedures).




                                                             10

ExecutingAgencymecipient
The IABINCouncil, through a decision of the IEC inOctober 2003, chosethe OAS as the
Executing Agency o f the GEF IABINProject. The ExecutingAgency receives the funds from the
World Bank and isresponsible for the managementand administrationo fthe funds as well as
beinglegally responsible for the technical implementationofthe Project, onbehalfo f the IABIN
Council.

The ExecutingAgency will exercise its functions throughtwo mechanisms: i)the Washington
office o f the OAS will be responsible for procurement, contracting, disbursements, auditing, and
other administrativefunctions as well as providingtechnical oversight; ii)decentralized Project
consultants will be responsible for technical implementation of the project and will physically sit
inoffices providedbythe organization housingthe Secretariat.The OAS will work underthe
direction and review of the IABINExecutive Committee.

By virtueofthe statusofthe OAS, all expenditures (contracts, purchasesandoperating expenses)
of the Project are exempt from taxation inall beneficiary countries.

IABINSecretariat
The IABINNetwork i s envisioned as a highly decentralized partnership between govemments
and organizations but it still needs a small Secretariat to provide aphysical home for the
Network. The Secretariat i s physically located ina host organization chosenby the IEC, the City
o f Knowledge inPanamaCity, anNGO.The City o f Knowledge has agreedto provide financing
inthe formof office space, connectivity, and computers, as well as support personnel.

Independent o f the World Bank GEF Project, the Secretariat has the function of technical
coordination o f IABIN.The Secretariatwill consist of: i)a Director; ii)technicalhpport
personnel depending on available funding; and iii)office space, infrastructure (computers,
connectivity, servers), personnel, and technical assistance, offeredby the organization that hosts
the Secretariat. A consultant will be hiredby the Project for the positiono f the Secretariat's
Director, but on a declining cost basis, GEF support declining to 40% by the endof the Project.
Other consultants hiredunderthe Projectwould likelybe physically locatedat the Secretariat but
would not formally be Secretariat staff.

Through the Director, partially supported by the Project, the Secretariatwill assist inthe day-to-
day management o fthe IABINproject and will be incharge of runningthe IABINnetwork. It
will report to the ExecutingAgency concerning the GEFproject implementationand to the
IABINCouncilonall aspectsofits activities.

CoordinatingInstitutions(CIS)
The Projectproposali s inpart builtaround the concept o f Thematic Networks (TNs), each
facilitated by a Coordinating Institution (CI) which, with the exception of the invasive species
TN, willbecompetitively chosenduringproject implementation.The CIShave a special role in
the coordination and promotion of key technical aspectsof IABINsuch as the development of
functioning networks and development of thematic informationresources.




                                                11

Underthe Interoperability and Access to DataComponent, the TNs will:

0        Supervise the operation of the basic network infrastructure: links to the IABINCatalog
         Service and other Thematic Networks;
0        Develop the basic information infrastructure necessaryto operatethe TNs; and
0        Seek agreements on the use of standardsand protocolsto ensure compatibility of diverse
         data sourceswithin the region.

Underthe Data Content CreationComponent, the T N s will:

       Develop and adapt tools for data content creation;
       Develop trainingpackages;
       Control quality of information;
       Carry out or coordinate training;
       Digitize biodiversity data inthe subject area of their TN;
       Determinedata content creation priorities;
       Identifywhat information isrequiredby decision makers and inwhat form; and
       Host data, ifneeded.

Partner Organizations inImplementation
Duringthepreparationphaseofthis project, potentialcontributors to IABINwere identified and
letters of interest, including parallel co-financing information, were received from 78
organizations. It i s expected that duringproject implementation, these same organizations will
form the core of a large set of organizations that will be the most active players inthe Thematic
Networks as data providers and information users. However, ifan institution has not submitteda
formal expression o f interest inthe IABINProject, this inno way precludes their active
participation inthe Project, nor does it guarantee access to project funds.

IABINis complementary to the GlobalBiodiversity InformationFacility (GBIF).The goals of
GBIFalign well with those of IABIN;bothare interoperable networks ofbiodiversity databases
and informationtechnology tools that will enable usersto navigate and putto use the world's vast
quantities o fbiodiversity informationto produce national economic, environmental, and social
benefits. IABINi s an associatemember of GBIF and GBIF currently occupies the single seat on
the IABINExecutive Committee reserved for anon-governmental organization. It i s expected
that current GBIF fundingwill allow that initiative to take the leadindeveloping relevant
network protocols and information management tools. IABINwill take advantage o f GBIF
efforts, and will inturn support the implementationof GBIF inthe Americas. See also Annex 10
on a range of other key global and regional initiatives inthe area ofbiological informatics.




                                                  12

D. Project Rationale
1.Project alternatives considered andreasons for rejection:
Centralized network vs. completely distributedsystem?
IABINisenvisionedas anopen, decentralizednetworkwithcommon standards, where users
needingbiodiversity information can find quality, relevant information through a gateway web
page. An advantage of a distributed approachi s that responsibility i s vested inindividualnetwork
members, and therefore "ownership" of the network is broader, leadingto greater sustainability and
a lower overhead for maintaining data currency and quality. A centralized network is not
appropriate to achieve these goals as itrequires long-term, external maintenance of a network and
the expensive centralized managemento f data, while a distributed systemcan avoid both.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).




                                                                              Implementation  Development
 Bank-financed                                                                 Progress(IP)  Objective (DO)
 Environmental Information                - Conservation and                       S               S
 Management Systems                       SustainableUse ofthe
                                          Mesoamerican Barrier Reef
                                          -System  Project (P053349)
                                            Argentina Biodiversity                  S              S
                                          Conservation Project
                                          (P039787)
                                          - Costa Rica Biodiversity                H S             S
                                          ResourcesDevelopment
                                          Project (P039876)
                                          - Nicaragua SecondRural                  U               S
                                          MunicipalDevelopment
                                          Project (PO55823)
                                          - Africa Regional                         S              S
                                          EnvironmentalInformation
                                          Management Project (REIMP)
                                          (P000003)
                                          - Brazil - Amazon Region                  S              S
                                          ProtectedAreas Project
                                          (P058503)
                                          - Indonesia - Biodiversity                S              S
                                          Collections Project (P034080)
 3ther development agencies
 UNEP (GEF)                               - Conservation and
                                          Sustainable Management o f
                                          Below Ground Biodiversity




                                                  13

                                             - In-situ Conservation o f Crop
                                             Wild Relatives through
                                             EnhancedInformation
                                             Management and Field

                                             - GEF Biodiversity     Data


  UNDP (GEF)

 P/ 0 Ratings: HS (HighlySatisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory),HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign:
The development of IABINhas benefited over the last several years from the experience of several
projects and networks and from its own analytical work. See the web site for a major paper on
lessonsproposed for IABINgovernance that was authored by John Busby, a founder o f Australia's
pioneering Environmental ResourcesInformationNetwork (ERIN).

Annex 10 entitled "Review of key bilateral and multilateralprograms and initiatives inbiodiversity
information sharing" provides an in-depth review of similar networks and lessons learned from
these experiences. The annex also explicitly indicates how this project design buildson these
lessons.

4. Indicationsof borrowerandrecipientcommitmentandownership:
The General Secretariat of the Organizationof American States (GS/OAS), inits coordinating role
for Summit follow-up, has been mandatedby the 34 member States to support IABIN,most
recently inthe Inter-American Committee for Sustainable Developmentmeeting o f February 2002.
The GS/OAS hasbeenproviding since its inceptionsignificant financing and support for IABIN,
including project management, interimSecretariat and website functions. The GS/OAS, as the
designated recipient of the Grant funds inrepresentation o f the IABINCouncil, will support the
implementation of IABINwith own-funded staff and other in-kindservices that will include
monitoring and evaluation of time-bound performance indicators and supervision o f overall project
performance, valued at US$200,000 per year or $1millionover the life o f the project.

The commitment to IABINbythe nations o fthe Americas was made at the highestlevels of
government, as evidenced by the signatures of the heads o f state to the Santa Cruz Plan of Action
(Initiative 31). Since that time, IABINdevelopment has receivedsignificant support from the 34
countries that have designated official IABINFocal Points. National support andparticipationmay
bemeasuredbythe hundreds of hours o f stafftime contributedtoward these start-up andproject
development efforts and by the demonstrated willingness of agencies and organizations in-country
to share biodiversity information. The rather remarkable formal, written endorsement of the Project
Preparation and Development Facility (PDF) Block B grant by 28 countries i s another indication of
the interest o f the countries of the Americas.
Particularly notable i s the contribution and commitment o f the US. The USGS has been a major
supporter o f IABINsince its start-up. The contribution from the USGS includes significant funding
for many technical pilot studies, allocation o f dedicated staff, chairing the IABINExecutive
Committee, and hosting aU S IABINweb site (http://www.iabin-us.org)that also served as the de
facto IABINPortal untilthe recent establishment o f www.iabin.net. Many major non-governmental
players such as NatureserveandThe Nature Conservancy (TNC) have also expressedtheir support



                                                     14

for IABINand at a national level, a great many institutionsare actively interested. Duringproject
preparation, 78 signed letters of parallel financing or support were received from institutions
throughout the Americas representing a broad range of government, private, and non-governmental
stakeholders.
See Annex 6(B) for more details onparallel financing.

5. Value added of Bank and Global support inthis project:
The Bank is the World's largest financier ofthe sustainableuse andconservation ofbiodiversity.
Over the last decade, Bank funding for biodiversity has involved over 226 projects with about
US$1.O billion o f IBRD/IDA resources, over US$450 million of GEF funds and an additional
US$1.2 billion inparallel financing from other donors, governments, NGOs, foundations, and the
private sector for a total Bank-managed biodiversityportfolio ofUS$2.6 billion. Thus, involvement
of the Bank inIABINwill not only channel the howledge from Bank operations into IABIN,but
also contribute to the integrationo f future Bank-managed biodiversity projects with IABIN.

According to a recent World Bankpublication (Cornerstonesfor Conservation: WorldBank
Assistancefor Protected Areas, 2003) the LatinAmerica and Caribbean Region accounts for 45%
ofThe World Bank Group's investments inprotected areas inthe 1988-2003 period. This same
publicationindicates that WB-GEF investments inprotected areas inthe region account for
approximately 38% of total WB-GEFinvestment inthe 1988-2003 period. This clearly shows the
importance the Regionhas inglobal biodiversity conservation efforts and the World Bank's
commitment.

The WorldBank, along with the OAS, has traditionally played akey role inthe meetings ofthe
Summit of the Americas (Mr.Wolfensohn, the World Bank's President, attended the last Summit
inMontreal inearly 2003). The IABINProject representsaninterestingpossibility for theBankto
support a key Summit initiative. The Bank will also be able to bringto the project parallel
financing from its other projects inthe region (and from Bank-managed resources) as well as
ensurea coordinatingrole for donor support and inter-governmental support.

The World Bank's role isrootedinits involvement inthe start-up stage ofIABIN,including
provision o f about US0.5 million insupport for pilot activities duringthe period 1999-2000. Pilot
activities included support for the invasive speciescomponent o f IABIN,access to museum
collections, development o fregional metadata standards, and support for a unifiedtaxonomic
authority (Species Analyst). This support was from Dutchtrust funds and stafftime o fWorld Bank
specialists (see also http://www.worldbank.orrr/ca-envfor details on these investments).

Finally, an applicationto the Bank's Development Grant Facility has very recently been approved,
and will further strengthen the Bank's contributionto this effort. This $1.2 million grant will
support the development o f connectivity between biological and non-biological data.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1.Economic (see Annex 4):
Incremental Cost Analysis (see Annex 4).

 2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NfA.




                                                   15

3. Technical:
The design o f IABINand other technical issues are addressedfully inthe technical description of
the Project and inthe PIP.The most difficult andcomplex technical issues to be faced during
implementation relate to the standardsand protocols to be adopted. As hasbeen found however in
most similar initiatives, the hurdlesto success are not technical butrather institutional.

4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Organization o f American States (OAS).

4.2 Project management:
The OAS is responsible for the execution of many GEF Bank projects and i s fully familiar with
World Bankproject managementrequirements.

4.3 Procurement issues:
The OAS, as the designatedrecipientofthe Grant funds inrepresentation ofthe IABINCouncil,
will be responsible for compliance withBankprocurement procedures. The OAShas considerable
prior experience inexecuting World Bank-implementedGEF projects and has the necessary
infrastructureand humanresourcesfor this function, not only inits Washington office but inany of
its national offices, locatedinvirtually every member country of IABIN.See Annex 6 for detailed
procurement arrangements.

4.4 Financial management issues:
Use of statements of expenditures(SOEs)
See Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements.

OperatingAccount
See Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements.

Audits
See Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and Disbursement Arrangements.

FinancialMonitoringandReportingArrangements
See Annex 6(B): FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements.

5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmentalassessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this
analysis.
No safeguard issuesare triggeredby this project.

5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An EnvironmentalManagement Plan (EMP) is not required.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
                     Date of receipt o f final draft:               N/A

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft
EAreport onthe environmental impacts andproposed environmentmanagement plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultationthat were usedand which groups were consulted?



                                                     16

No environmental analysis (EA)has been carried out although project preparation involved very
extensive consultations with stakeholders (see below).

5.5 What mechanisms have been establishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults of the EMP?
N / A

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Duringthe review ofthe Project bythe Bank's RegionalSafeguardsUnit,no social safeguard
issues were identified. However, as there are interesting issuesto be exploredinrelationshipto
indigenous peoples, the preparation team has chosento prepare an annex on indigenous peoples
issues (Annex 9).

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?
See next section.

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
KeyNGOsand institutionsparticipate actively inthe Council. Projectpreparationincluded
consultation with virtually every significant NGO and institution involved inbiodiversity
informatics inthe Americas (see detailed reports inthe PIP and reports of the sub-regional
consultants, all available at the MINwebsite). Activities under Component 1, 2 and 3 will
dependonthe participation o fNGOsand institutions interested to take part inthe implementation.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
N/A

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
NIA

Does this project include any Community-Driven Developmentcomponent? No

7. SafeguardPolicies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?




    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                   No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                 No
    IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20)                                                    No
    InvoluntaryResettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                            No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                              No
    Projects inInternational Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                    No
    Projects inDisputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)"                         No




                                                 17

7.2 Describe provisions madebythe projectto ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
N/A



F. Sustainability and Risks
1.Sustainability:

IABINessentially aims to develop andpromote anewway of "doing business" when it comesto
biological information. IABINwill furtherthe use of common standards and protocolsthat will
allow better access to and use o fbiological information. The sustainability o f IABINcan thus be
considered under two headings: i)sustainability ofthe concepts and principles o f interoperability;
and ii)more narrowly focused, the financial and institutional sustainability o f the MIN
Secretariat, as one means to the endofpromotingthe goals o f IABIN.

Sustainability of Interoperability Concept

If everybody adopted basic standards andposted data on the Intemet insuch a way that it could be
usedby others, there would be no needfor IABIN.One of the measuresof the sustainability o fthe
interoperability concepts promotedby IABINmighttherefore be the disappearanceof the network
itself if adoption of standards and a new "way of doing business" became sufficiently widespread.

The concepts of interoperability arenotjust sustainableinthe future, they are inevitable. Inwide
scale consultations carriedout duringproject preparation, there was not a single institution or
country that was not interested inthe concept of greater sharing o f data and greater access to data.
As a critical minimal amount o f data is structured andpostedina certain way (using
IABIN/CHM/GBIF standards) non-conforming institutions will have to adapt andadopt or be left
behind. As an example, that leadsus to suggest this i s possible, the speedwith which millions of
institutions worldwide have adopted Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)protocols (that is, have
participatedinthe World Wide Web) for sharing textual informationi s nothing less than
astonishing.

O f course,just posting and making data available online does not ensure a critical mass. A keypart
of sustainability i s whether or not informationproducts are useful and usable, delivering what users
want inthe form that they want it, and ensuringthat potential users are well aware of what IABIN
can do for them. IABI"s role inthe next decade is to keep the ball rollingwith these
considerations inmindand to ensure that all the countries inthe Americas can access training and
information intheir own languages.

The table onthe followingpageprovides a summary o f what we view as incentivesand
disincentives (in italics) to participatinginIABIN.The overall incentive environment seems to be
highlypositive, suggesting strong sustainability inthe future.

Short-Term Sustainability

To achieve the above goals, there is no doubt that IABINas an institution needs to benefit fkom
financial and institutionalsustainability over a periodo f at least a decade or two. It would remain
to be determinedifit will need to exist beyondthat, perhaps for the purposes o f training and fine-




                                                  18

tuningandadaptingstandards to what will bethe inevitabletechnological changesthat will
emerge.

The institutional sustainability of IABINdepends on the participationof the countries and
institutions that constitute the JABINCouncil. Incomparison to other internationalnetworks, we
would regardthe commitmentof member countries and participatinginstitutions to beremarkably
highat this point intime, as demonstratedby co-financinglettersreceived, highlevels of
endorsement o f the project, and extensive attendance of LatinAmerican and Caribbean countries at
the last IABINCouncil Meeting inCancun inAugust 2003. The continuing interest and
commitment o f IABINcountries will of course be a function of the benefits that result from
IABIN.As the projectishowever very strongly oriented to what isneededbyall countries:
standards development and training, we believe the benefits o fparticipating inIABINwill be
apparent.

The partnership of IABINwith GBIF, CHM, and other non-Americaninitiatives i s also significant
as IABINwill be a vehicle for ensuring that the best o fwhat i s being developed throughout the
world is brought to bear inLatin America and the Caribbean. Finally, the very strong participation
and support of the U S Government will ultimately be critical to the success of IABIN;the National
Biological InformationInfrastructure (NBII) of the U S i s perhapsthe leadingbiological
informatics network inthe World and IABINwill serve to channel U S support to all countries in
the Hemisphere.

The Secretariat o f IABINhas recurrent operational costs that mustbe met for the network to be
sustainable. The Secretariat has howeverbeen designed with extremely low annual costs, lessthan
$0.5 million, compared to other similar networks (such as GBIF for example, with annual recurrent
costs inthe millions of dollars). The IABINSecretariat will have low recurrent costs and there i s
every reason to think that it would be feasible to generatethat kindof financial support inthe long
run(one ofthe focus areas ofIABINisinvasive species, whose economic costs canprobablybe
estimated inthe hundreds ofmillions ifnot billions o fdollars annually inthe Americas, so it is not
difficult to envisage that major contributions o f IABINshouldresult inmodest support from
different beneficiaries). The Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) reviewer notedthe
same conclusionthat financial sustainability o f IABINwould not be an issue.

More specifically however, anumber o f measures are inplace or will be developed to ensure
financial sustainability o f the Secretariat:

i)Grantswillbesolicitedfromavarietyofinternationalorganizations(todate,IABINhasbeen
supported by grants and financial support from the OAS, the US.Agency for International
Development, the World Bank, Natureserve, and others). The goals of IABINare consistent with
the goals ofthe GEF; the latter's biodiversity portfolio will benefit from IABINininnumerable
ways (see Section Bla.) and the GEFmay have every interest inthe future to continue supporting
this initiative.

ii)TheU.S.AgencyforInternationalDevelopment(USAID)fundedastudyin2001toinvestigate
and recommend a financial sustainability strategy for IABIN.Each of twelve types of potential
fundingsourceswere evaluated for their likelihood ofsuccess, as well as for the skills requiredto
obtain funds from that particular source, the level of investment required to launchthe enterprise,
the risks involved, the possible conflicts within the network, and the longer term availability of this
type of funding. This study is a start to developing a financing strategy and will be further
developed inthe context of the IABINProject.




                                                    19

                                      Incentivesto ParticipateinIABIN
                                                                                                Negative incentives
Stakeholders  Environmental             Social                      Economic                    Otherlmixed
All              1Protection o f          Knowledge                 Avoid duplication o f       Community building
                  biodiversity            Credibility               effort-investment,          (users andproviders)
                                          Visibility                data collection, tool       that sets common goals
                                          Transparency               development                Sustainable
                                                                                                development
                                                                   x Training and
                                                                   "retooling" costs          1 Intellectual Property
                                                                                               Rights concerns
Data             1Credible data for       Ensuring credit for        Financial                  Decision makers
providers         better science          one's work                 "Certification" for        support
                 1Access to other         Links to society           fundraising
                  information             Leadership                 Leveraging            :Perceived loss of
                                                                                               control over data
                                        x Demand loadfor           x Conversion costs      :Bureaucracyhlow
                                        formatting andfollowing                                down; resistance to
                                        rtandards                                              chanpe
Primary data    1 Simplifying access to                              Reduce collection
users             multiple sources                                   costs (including data
                                                                     repatriation)
Data            1 Increase use o f data                              Reduce integration      ' Increasingfeasibility of
integrators       as input to           x Phase-out of existing      costs                      integration o f
                  environmental         less integrated systems      Tool sharing               biodiversity data with
                  models                has a social cost to those                              spatial andnon-
                                        behind the systems                                      biological data
Educators/      1 Access to               Access to training         Reduced training and      1Better accessibility to
students          information                                        specialized                data for teaching and
                                                                     environmental              research
                                                                     education costs
Civil society   1 Increased access to   0 Transparency o f         0 Using informationfoi
                  wider informationby     information (watchdog      better credibility to
                  journalists and         function)                  facilitate obtaining
                  conservationists                                   funds.
Natural         1 Better informationor                             0 Greater likelihood o f   1 Better decision making
Resources/        systems managed                                    sustainable use based
land                                                                 on knowledge
managers
Policy makers  1  Implementation o f      Better access and          Reduce costs for         1 Better decision making
                  CBD and biodiversi?     relationship with data     analysis
                  strategies              providers
                                        0 Demonstrate to tax
                                          payers effective use o f
                                          funds ininformation
                                          management

                                        x Increased access to
                                         info-information
                                         overload
                                        x Information may lead
                                         to criticism of
                                         government



                                                        20

iii)IABINisnegotiatingthecreationofaFoundation.(seedetailsinAnnex2).

iv) The OAS has actedas the Diplomatic Host of IABINsince its inceptionin 1996andhas
consistently provided aminimal level of financing. It i s unlikely the commitment of OAS will
change inthe foreseeable future.

v) DuringProject Preparation, the IECcarriedout a competitiveselectionprocessto choosean
organization to host the IABINSecretariat.Three different organizations or internationalconsortia
competed for the right to provide free support to IABIN,at least for 5 years (at aminimum,office
space, computers, connectivity, technical support). This was a goodindication of the support that
can be expected from keybeneficiaries/actors who are committed to the concept of IABIN.

la. Replicability:
The project presents tremendous possibilitiesofreplicability across the Americas, both
thematically and geographically. The project will focus on selectedthematic areas butthis effort
couldbe replicated inthe future as additional resourcesbecome available andnewpriority areas
emerge. Some regions of the Americas have beendeveloping exemplary sub-regional networks
(e.g., Central America, Andean countries) or nationalnetworks (e.g., the U.S., Mexico, Canada,
and Colombia) and IABINwould allow these successes to be replicatedinnew national or sub-
regional initiatives.
As a continental-scale initiative, there are obviously fewpotentialopportunities for replicationof
IAE3INat the same scale. However, as notedbythe STAPreviewer,there is astrongpossibility
that IABINcouldbe replicated, perhapsinAfrica or inAsia. Incase of Asia, there hasbeen an
attempt to establish an institution by the Association of SoutheastAsian Nations (ASEAN) to
promote knowledge sharing about best practices and common efforts inthe biodiversity sector, and
ledto aproposal for EuropeanUnion (EU) collaborationinestablishingan ASEANRegional
Centre for Biodiversity Conservation (ARCBC). Although the project i s ending, key ASEAN
stakeholders inthe biodiversity sector have expresseda wish for the momentumachievedby the
ARCBC project to be maintained, andhave indicatedtheir preferences regardingthe mainfeatures
o f a successorinstitution (details available inNipponKoei report 2.2; see Annex 8). Upon
successful completion, IABINmay be an interestingmodel for them. The mid-termevaluation of
the IABINproject will specifically review lessons learned with regardto replicability (both
globally andnationally and sub-nationally).


2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure ofcritical assumptions found inthe fourth column of
Annex 1):


                                                                    Risk Mitigation Measure
 FromOutputsto Objective
 Key catalog partnership with                N          The commitment o f the USGS to IABINhas
 USGSmaintained                                         been consistent over the last years and there i s
                                                        support at a highlevel to IABINand specifically
                                                        to provide catalog services. Inthe unlikely event
                                                        that this partnership would not prosper, there
                                                        would be other alternatives that couldbe
                                                        explored for the hosting of catalog services.




                                                  21

 Sufficient coordinationcan be               M           3ne ofthe high-level technical consultantsto be
 assuredbetween T N s to allow                           iredby the project will have the primary
 development o f interoperability                        ?unctionof ensuring coordinationbetween the
 between them                                            INS.  Significant and unsuspectedtechnical
                                                        ;hallenges to interoperability may emerge and
                                                        would require flexible responses of the project
                                                         mdvery close coordinationwith GBIF andother
                                                         cey standard-setting organizations.
 Sufficient incentives for data              M          See incentive table under F1. Sustainability.
 providers to adopt IABIN                               Zonsultations during project preparations have
 standards                                              suggested there is strong interest inWINfrom
                                                        jata providers. The project however will need to
                                                         3e flexible and adaptable inrecognizing
                                                         incentives and disincentives and reacting to
                                                         them.
 Major parallel financing does               M           Parallel financing of coordinating institutions
 not materialize                                         mdfrom institutionsreceiving grants willbe
                                                         documentedincontractual agreements.Funding
                                                         support requiredbythe project canbe very
                                                        fungible so if fundingdoesnot materializefrom
                                                         one source, it can be readily substituted by
                                                         fundingfrom another.
 Data i s current enough for tools           S           The decision support tools under component 3
 to provide good information                             will have to be carefully designed to ensurethey
                                                        buildonreliable data but it i s possible there may
                                                         be significant risks indesigningtools that will be
                                                         sustainable ifthey needto draw on data sets of
                                                         third parties.
 Secretariat hosting arrangement             M           Commitment of the City ofKnowledge hasbeen
 with City o fKnowledge lasts 5                          firmly expressedby the ExecutiveDirector and
 years as agreedinMOU                                    supportedby a range o fpartners (Govt. of
                                                         Panama, Smithsonian, etc.). Inthe unlikely even
                                                         this arrangement fails, the IEC shouldbeable to
                                                         substitute a similar host (at least two similar
                                                        offers were on the table at the time o f selection
                                                         o f the host).
 From Componentsto Outputs
 Interoperability i s not                    M           IABINstandardsandprotocolswillbecarefully
 technically feasible and such                           chosen including feasibility considerations. The
 technology i s not available                            intention i s only to develop new standards in
                                                         exceptional circumstances andto rely normally
                                                         on existingGBIF and C H M standards.
 Overall Risk Rating                         M
 Risk Rating- H (High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M (Mol st Risk), N (Negligibleor Low Risk)


3. Possible ControversialAspects:
The Project hasno particularly controversial aspectsexcept regardingaccess to information and
intellectualproperty rights.A policy for IABINhas been preparedduringthe preparationand will
be further refinedduringthe Project. It is available at http://www.iabin.net.



                                                    22

G. Main Conditions
1.EffectivenessConditions
1) An Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has beenapproved bythe ExecutingAgency.
2) The IABINSecretariat has been establishedby the IEC and is functionally operating.

2. Other [classifyaccordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
NIA.


H. Readinessfor Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
ofproject implementation.

c] 1.a) The engineering designdocuments for the first year's activities are complete andready for
the start ofproject implementation.
[XI 1.b) Not applicable.

(XI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start
       o fproject implementation.
    3. The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and of
       satisfactory quality.
[74.Thefollowing itemsarelaclungandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):


1. Compliancewith Bank Policies
    1.This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
    2. The following exceptions to Bankpolicies are recommendedfor approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bankpolicies.

OP/BP 12.20 Special Accounts: The Recipient maintains one omnibus account ina commercial
bank (the "Operating Account") for all its transactions, and separate ledger accounts for individual
projects are maintainedonly withinthe Recipient's Enterprise System (OASES) financial system.
Although this arrangement i s acceptableto the Bank, said arrangement constitutes a deviation from
Bankpolicy concerning the establishment, operation and maintenance o f Special Accounts.
Therefore, Management hereby requeststhe Boardto approve an exceptionto said policy so as to
enablethe transfer o f GEF Trust FundGrant resourcesto the Recipient's Operating Account in
respect of the Project. The GEF Secretariat has no objection to this exception.




 Douglas J. Graham                 AbelMejia                            John Redwood
 Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector              Country ManagerlDirector




                                                 23

                                    Annex I:Project DesignSummary
          LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-American BiodiversityInformationNetwork


                                                                                           Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:                 Sector1country           [fromGoal to Bank
                                                                reports:                 Mission)
To develop enabling          - IABIN-generated information
frameworks for sustainable   or resourcescited in               -- Nationalreports
                                                                    Independent
environmental management     environmentally positive policy    evaluation
                             changes inarea o f natural
                             resource management inat least
                             10countries by Year 4,20 by
                            year 5.
GEF OperationalProgram:      OutcomeI Impact Indicators:
To create an enabling        - Byend   o f Year 3, halfthe                                - Effectivemanagement o f
mvironment for               countries inthe Americas using      -- NationalReports
                                                                    CBD Analyzer          biodiversity information is
conservation and sustainable IABIN-generated information in - Governmental reports        a significant factor in
use o f biodiversity inthe   the development ofmechanisms       - External evaluation    sustainable development
Americas                     for measuring the statusitrends o f
                             the conservation and use o f
                             biodiversity (and two thirds by
                             end o f project)
                             - Majority o f major               - Development Gateway
                             internationally funded projects     listings o f projects
                             involving use and conservation              Analyzer
                             o fbiodiversity, starting inYear   -- CBD
                                                                    Independent
                             4, using the above mechanisms       assessments
                             inproject design
GlobalObjective:             Outcome IImpact Indicators:         -Project reportsbythe
                                                                          reports:       (from Objectiveto Goal)
To develop an Internet-      - About 4 new multinational            Project              - Decisions  concerning
based, decentralized network partnerships per year facilitated   Secretariat             conservation and
to provide access to         byIABINinvolving access to                                  sustainable use o f
biodiversity information     biodiversity information within     -- TN reports
                                                                    Survey with selected  biodiversity are
currently existing in        the Americas, starting inYear 2     participating            significantly influencedby
individual institutions and  (At least 16intotal)                institutions/            availability o f good
agencies inthe Americas                                          users                    information
To provide the tools         - Starting inYear 3, IABIN-         - User feedback (web
necessaryto draw             developed or IABIN-supported        forms)
knowledge from that wealth   informationmanagement tools
o f resources to support     being downloaded and
sounddecision-making         demonstrably usedindecision
concerning the conservation  making
and sustainable use of
biodiversity




                                                          24

 Outputfrom each             Output Indicators:               Project reports:          from Outputsto
 Component:                                                                            3bjective)
 Component 1:
 Interoperability and access
 to data                     1.1
 1.1 IABINCatalog           - IABINCatalog is developed       - Projectreports by the   ' Key catalog partnership
 1.2 SpeciesThematic        anduser-baseexpands to reach      IABINSecretariat         vithUSGS maintained
 Network                     10,000 usersbyYear 3, and        - Indicator monitoring   .Dataproviders willing to
 1.3 Specimens Thematic      continues to expand by 20% a     system                   irovide adequatemetadata
 Network                     year thereafter                                           iccessible to the Catalog.
 1.4 Ecosystems Thematic    - Metadata tools andtraining      -- Web statistics
                                                                 Surveys to IABIN      .Sufficient coordination
 Network                    materials available inmultiple    Focal Points              :an be assuredbetween
 1.5 Invasive Species       languages                                                  I X s to allow development
 Thematic Network                                                                      3 f interoperability
 1.6 Pollinators Thematic    1.2 1.7
                                 -                                                      Jetweenthem
 Network                    - EachTN is operational by end
 1.7 ProtectedAreas         o f Year 2 with established
 Thematic Network           protocols, standards and tools
                             which have beenadopted by a
                            wide range o f organizations in
                             the region
                             - Number o f institutions and
                            number of countries participating
                            inTNs increasing by 20%in
                            Year 3 (baseline=Year 2) andby
                             10% inYears 4 and 5
                            - Use o fdatasets andwebsites
                            developed by each TN increasing
                            by20%per year after the TNis
                            operational for one year
 Component 2: Data
 content creation
 2.1 Data content creation  - IABINCatalog content            - Indicator monitoring    - Sufficient incentives for
                             increasesby 10%a year, and       system                    data providers to adopt
                            number ofinstitutions             - Data Content            IABINstandards
                             contributing metadata increases  Manager's report          - Suitable personnel
                            by 10%a year (baseline =endo f    - Analysis  o f Catalog   available for training
                            Year 2)                           content                   - Sufficient data canbe
I                           - Number   o f datasets inthe     - Surveys with IABIN      digitized to significantly
                            region consistent with IABIN      FocalPoints               impact data availability
                             interoperability standards                                 - Concerns   about
                             increase by 20% a year (baseline                            intellectualproperty rights
                            =endofYear 2)                                               that arise canbe
                            - Eachyear, 5% o f data available                            adequately resolved
                            through IABINis newly
                            digitized data (inparticular
                             addressing knowndata gaps)
 2.2 Technical training     - At least 100people trained per
                            vear




                                                         25

 Component3: Information
 tools for decisionmakers
 3.1 Information tools for   - At least 3 decision-support     .Secretariat Report         Sufficient data available
 decisionmaking              tools developed that integrate    .Surveys to IABIN        br the information tools
                             information from more than one    Focal Points               o access
                             TN                                 - Web statistics          ' Data i s current enough
                             - Downloading of these tools                               'ortools to provide good
                             increasing by 10% per year once                              nformation
                             they have been available for one
                             year

 Component4:
 Sustainability of IABIN
 4.1 Project Coordination    - Visits to IABINPortal increase   - Project semi-annual   .Secretariat Hosting
                            by at least 20% per year the first  reports                   irrangement with City o f
                             year (and 10%thereafter)
                             indicating effective coordination  --- IABINCouncil reports Knowledge lasts 5 years
                                                                    Web statistics        i s agreed inMOU
                             and maintenance (baseline =pre-        Data Content          .Smallsecretariat
                             project visits o f 18,OOO/month)   Manager's report          :nvisaged is adequateto
                             Additional fundingidentified and                             aperateIABIN
                             obtained for continued and                                   - IABIN Focal Points
                             effective functioning o f IABIN                              remain engagedand
                             by endof year 2 (to cover costs                              provide country-level
                             covered on a declining basis by                              support
                             GEF                                                          - Key  partnerships with
 4.2 Partnerships and        - Collaborative agreements                                   GBIF and CHM canbe
 Communications              established with at least two                                further strengthened
                             international initiatives andor
                             networks each year
I                            - IABINCouncilMeetings
                             andor IEC meetings held every
                             year

 Component5: Project
 administration
 5.1 Project administration  - Project M&E is rated             - WB's    supervision      - The IEC is able to
                             satisfactory or better by the      missions andproject       provide effective oversigh
                             World Bank and by the IABIN        supervision reports        o fthe Executing Agency
                             Council
 ProjectComponentsI Sub-     inputs: (budget for each           Project reports:           (from Componentsto
 components:                 component)                                                    0utputs)
 Component 1                 US$ 1.72 million                   - Disbursements    and     - Implementation   o f
  1.1 IABINCatalog                                              audit reports              interoperability standards
  1.2 Species Thematic                                                                     and prototypes is feasible
 Network
  1.3 SpecimensThematic
 Network
  1.4 Ecosystems Thematic
 Network
  1.5 Invasive Species
 Thematic Network
  1.6Pollinators Thematic
 Network



                                                          26

1.7 ProtectedAreas
Thematic Network
Component 2                US$ 2.47million       - Disbursementsand   - Intellectual property
2.1 Data content creation                        audit reports        rights concerns limit data
2.2 Technical training on                                             creation and data access
LAJ3INdata capture tools
Component 3                US$ 0.50 million      - Disbursementsand   - Multi-sectoral nature
Informationtools for                             audit reports        does not impede
decision makers                                                       implementationbecauseof
                                                                      lagging standards
                                                                      implementation innon-
                                                                      biological sectors
Component 4                US$ 0.91 million      - Disbursementsand   - Financial sustainability
4.1 IABINSecretariat                             audit reports        does not prove elusive
4.2 Partnerships and
communications
Component 5               US$0.40 million        - Disbursements and
Project administration                            audit reports




                                              27

                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description

   LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-American BiodiversityInformation Network
                                                 (IABIN)

Bysupportingthe development ofthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity InformationNetwork
(IABIN),the project will: (i) anInternet-based,decentralized network to provide access
                                 develop
to scientifically credible biodiversity information currently existing inindividual institutions and
agenciesinthe Americas, (ii)     provide the tools necessaryto draw knowledge from that wealth of
resources, which in'turnwill support sound decision-making concerning the conservation and
sustainable use ofbiodiversity.

A summary descriptionofthe components isprovidedhere. Detaileddescriptions, timetables, and
budgets are includedinthe Project ImplementationPlan (PIP), available inSpanishand English
on the IABINweb site.

By Component:

Project Component 1: lnteroperabilityand Access to Data US$8.76 million
                                                            -
Thiscomponent includes $1.72 million ofGEF funds.

Objectives
This component will createthe information infrastructure necessaryfor usersto searchandaccess
biodiversity data and information. For this to happen, IABINwill seek to develop a regional
consensuson standards andpromoting interoperability with other regional and global efforts,
especially the Global Biodiversity InformationFacility (GBIF).Underthis component, the project
will seek agreementon the use of certain standards andprotocolsto ensure compatibility of
diverse data sourceswithinthe region. Areas requiring consensuson standards include:
communications, taxonomic information, metadata, controlled vocabularies, other authorities
(names, institutions, etc.), and recordstructures for particular types of information (e.g., specimen
data, bibliographic data, GIs, images, etc.). Since these are issues addressedbyvarious initiatives
around the world, and the ultimate goal is to achieve global compatibility, IABINwill document
and evaluate existingstandards (e.g., GBIF and CHM standards), whichmay simplybe adopted
after appropriate consultation. Annex 4 o f the PIP includes a discussion o f protocols and standards
suggested for LABINadoption.

This activity will also take into consideration the distinct structural issues andmetadata standards
for eventual inclusion of ethnoecological or "traditional environmentalknowledge" generatedby
indigenous peoples into IABIN.Activities under subcomponents for the Catalog service and the
T N s will also target the inclusionof key indigenous groups involved inthe generation and
managementofbiodiversity information, especially interms ofproviding access to training events
as well as inthe development o f informationrequirements and use policies (see Subcomponent
4.2 and Annex 9).

I A B I N ' s approach to enabling better biodiversity information access will be through the
development of: i)the IABINCatalog Service; and ii)the IABINThematic Networks (TNs). A
Thematic Network Coordinator, sitting inthe Secretariat, will oversee the implementation of the
IABINCatalog Services andthe TNs.




                                                    28

 1.1 IABINCatalog Service

 Biological information is heldby multipleinstitutions invarying formats, and i s often available
 only withinthe country that has produced and maintains the information. The need for this
 information, when appropriate, to be available throughout the IABINnetwork to other
 participating countries and partners is paramount to IABINsucceeding as a network on aregional
 and global scale.

 The objective o fthe IABINCatalog Service is to provide a mechanism to locate, evaluate, and
 access biological data and information from a distributednetwork of cooperating data and
 information sources from across the Americas. The IABINCatalog search service will allow
 Internetusers to searchthrough an assortmentof standardized descriptions (metadata) of different
 information products (such as databases, maps, websites, other information systems, etc.) to
 identifythose that meet their particularrequirements. Once items of interest have beenidentified,
 the user would be directed to the data provider site where the source data couldbe accessed,
 downloadedor purchases, as per the intention of the dataprovider.

 IABINhas already implementedapilot catalog service ofbiodiversitydata andinformation
 resources satisfying the requirements described above. The Catalog Services are being developed
 inpartnership withthe NationalBiologicalInformationInfrastructure(USGS/NBII), utilizing the
 existinginfrastructuredeveloped for the NBIIClearinghouse (httP://metadata.nbii.aov). This
 functionality i s beingprovided via the IABINweb site (httP://www.iabin.net).

 Under the existingpartnership with IABIN,the USGShas developed interfaces inSpanish and
 Portuguese to its BioBot SearchTool and expanded its scope of content to cover additional
 categories o f informationof importance to IABIN.The IABINBioBot tool facilitates easy access
 to web content, FGDC metadata, and other content ofrelevance to IABINand its members.Under
 this agreementIABINwill benefit fromfurther development ofthe NBIIClearinghouse. This
 approach allows IABINto provide a cost-effective catalog service, while focusing the GEF funds
 on the TNs and the implementation of a data creation program (Component 2).

 Expectedproducts for a total of about $220,000 inGEF funds through consultancies, services,
 and training (no funds will be provideddirectly to the USGS) are:

 e        Creationo f the CatalogTechnicalWorking Group by the Secretariat staff.
 e        Three meetings o f the Technical Working Group.
 e        Development o f metadata creation tools inmultiple languages. Some of these tools
          presentlyexist only inEnglish.
 e        Modification o f existingmultilingual user interfaces as necessary.
 e        Develop multilingual training materials.
 e        Maintenance and operations of the Catalogue.

 1.2 Thematic Networks

 IABINwill support the development ofanumber ofThematic Networks (TNs), that will provide
 search and retrieval capabilities to data on a specific theme or area o f interest. The data will
 preferably, butnot exclusively, bedistributed, depending on efficiency, existing infrastructure,
 and sustainability issues. The implementationof the T N s will help fulfill the objectives of IABIN
 and complement those of other networks and parallel initiatives, generating support for mutual
 efforts. The TNs are considered to bemechanisms to:


,
                                                  29

0        Develop standards specific to the needs of the TNbut compatible with other TNs;
0        Access information;
0        Buildcapacity for information sharing and exchange;
0        Coordinate technology transfer on a regionalbasis;
0        Facilitate the inclusionofbiodiversity themes innational agendas; and
0        Explore the need for information indecision making.

The following criteria were establishedfor the prioritization ofTNs:

0        Theme is ofinterest to countries (demand driven) as determinedbythe consultations
         carried out during the PDF phase;
0        Valid regional or sub regional data exist;
0        Infrastructureexists or i s planned;
0        Theme i s apriority for global and regionalprograms;
0        Theme is apriorityof the Conventionon Biological Diversityand the 2ndIABINCouncil
         meeting; and
0       Network leverages other funds.

Usingthe above information and criteria, the following six TNs were identified as a priority for
IABIN.EachTNwill becoordinated byan institution, whichwill be selectedbythe Secretariat
on a competitive basis and supported by a Technical Committee of Experts constituted by
specialists from across the region, chosenby the Secretariat (except for the Invasive Species TN).
The Coordinating Institution (CI) i s responsible for organizing the development of the TN,
including recommendations on standards and protocols, as well as policies for informationuse.
The latter are subject to a "no objection" from the IABINCouncil. The C Imay also be
responsible for the coordinationo f other activities, such as the development o ftools for accessing
data, entering data inthe network, and training, which may be carriedout by the CI or by other
groups. The funds for eachTNwill therefore be disbursedas single lump-sumcontracts bid
internationally and competitively.

1.1.1 SpecimensThematicNetwork

Some o f the specimen data of any given country reside inits own museums and herbariums,
althougha significant part o f the data reside inmuseums outside the country or hemisphere.In
coordinationwith other TNs, the ultimate objective o f this TNi s to allow the user to consult and
use specimen data, integrated with species and ecosystemsnetworks. Repatriationof specimen
data will be an important consideration inthe implementation of the Specimens TN.

The objective of the Specimens Thematic Network is to define and implement the architecture,
tools, standards and protocols to access specimen information located in institutions throughout
the region, by usingdistributedaccess standards.

Expectedproducts, for a total GEF investment of $200,000, are:


0       Informationrequirements from representative user groups evaluated andprioritized
         (building upon the information obtainedfrom the IABINRegional Reportprepared inthe
         first Project Preparation and Development Facility (PDF) stage o f this project);
0       Policies for the use of information defined;




                                                  30

0        Architecture, protocols, tools and standards for the searcho f specimen databases
         distributedthroughout the region defined. Standardsandprotocolsdefinedby GBIF and
         others willbe evaluated for the development of the specimennetwork;
0        A website ina central server, installed, that will allow searches and accessto the
         information available. This includes training for web administrators;
0        Software developed for data providers, national partners and the central serverrequired
         for the implementationof the specimen informationnetwork. Includestraining for
         trainers;
0        Protocols, tools and standardsdefined and implementedinorder to integrate the specimen
         network with the species and ecosystemsnetworks;
0        A specimen informationnetwork operational andmaintainedbythe CI; and
e        Multi-lingualtraining materials developed.

1.1.2 Species Thematic Network

Speciesrepresent the fundamental unit for understanding the diversity of life on earth, and are the
typical level of biodiversity that i s protected by laws (e.g., Convention on InternationalTrade in
Endangered Specieso f Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), IUCNRedLists). Beyondthe basic need
to classify species known to exist (taxonomy), decision makers require information about the
status of species, individual speciesrequirements (natural history andphenology), and the best
practices for managing populations, especially for vulnerable species.

The objective ofthe SpeciesThematic Network is to implement an electronic andinstitutional
network dedicated to regional speciesinformation that supports the decisionmakingprocess.
Ultimately, tools developedby the Network should allow the user to consult species information,
integrated with specimen and ecosystems databases inan integrated manner (incoordinationwith
other Thematic Networks).

Expectedproducts, for a GEF investment of $200,000, are the following:

         Informationrequirements from representative user groups evaluated and prioritized
         (buildinguponthe informationobtained from the IABINRegionalReportpreparedinthe
         first PDF stage of this project);
e        Technical Advisory Group workshop on GBIF standards andprotocols as they apply to
         IABINinformationpriorities;
         Recommendations for the architecture and protocols documented and distributed to the
         focal points and data providers;
         Documentationfor the cross-cutting Thematic Networks on how to use the species
         standards andprotocols.
         Tools for enteringspecies data;
         Policies for the use of species information acceptedand documented;
         Web site on a central server that provides access to speciesdata usingdistributedaccess
         tools adaptedfrom GBIF;
         Prototype tools for integrated searches of ecosystem, species and specimen information;
         Training program for web administrators;
         On-line help system to report and explain advances and changes inprotocols and tools;
         Processes inplace to ensure sustainabilityof the information system; and
         Species expert database and directory.




                                                  31

1.1.3 Ecosystems Thematic Network

The ecosystem i s the fundamental unit ofresource management.Ecosystemmaps are, among
other things, integrated planning tools that provide arecordof the locationand distributionof
ecosystemswithin a managementarea. They create a framework for developing various site-
specific uses.

The objectiveof the EcosystemThematic Network i s to implement an electronic and institutional
network dedicated to regional ecosysteminformation that supports the decision makingprocess.
Ultimately, tools developed by the Network shouldallow the user to consult specimen, species
and ecosystems databases inan integrated manner (incoordinationwith other thematic networks).
This work will be closely coordinated with the Millennium EcosystemAssessment and other key
players inthis area. The specific objectives are the following:


0       Enhance the usefulness of ecosysteminformationfor decision makers ingovernment and
        civil society;
0       Establishstandards for providingaccess to information on ecosystemsthat i s distributed
        among multipleinstitutions;
0       Establisha hemispheric systemfor cross-referencing different ecosystemclassifications;
0       Integrate ecosysteminformation with specimen and species information from other
        IABINthematic networks; and
0       Maintainthe ecosysteminformation Thematic Network.

Expectedproducts, corresponding to a GEF investment of $250,000, are the following:

        A prioritized, annotatedlist ofuser types andtheir requirements;
        Evaluationof ecosysteminformation systeminthe context o f ongoingregionalprojects,
         and recommendations for improvements to the information system;
        Metadata standards for ecosystemdata adopted;
        Tools for entering ecosystemdata sets implementedby IABINparticipants;
        Policies for the use of information accepted and documented;
         Online system for cross-referencing different ecosystem classifications;
        Prototype tools for integrated searches o f ecosystems, species and specimen information
         implemented;
        Training program for web administrators;
        Processesinplace to ensure sustainability of the ecosystem information system;
         On-linehelp systemto report and explain advancesand changes inprotocols andtools;
         and
         Ecosystems expert database and directory.

1.1.4 Invasive Species Thematic Network

A growingnumber ofplants, animals, andpathogens are becoming invasiveinnatural areas,
inlandwaters, oceans, croplands, and rangelands. Invasivescan result from geographic range
extensions or from ecological displacements of a specieswithin a disrupted ecosystem. These
invasive species pose increasing risks to humanhealth, native species, ecosystems, andnational
economies and are secondonly to habitat destruction as a cause of loss of biodiversity.
Documentingcurrent invasions, predictingnew invasion sites, andpreventinginvasions are vital
to the protection of biological diversity inall countries. Prediction of and rapid responseto
invasive speciesrequires ready access to invasive speciesknowledge bases from many countries.


                                                 32

Intemet-accessible knowledge bases can provide crucial information for the early detection,
eradication, and containment o f invasives-which     are most possible for speciesthat havejust
arrived.

The work o f the invasive species thematic network will be a direct contributionto implementation
o f the decision by the CBDConference of Parties on alien species that threaten ecosystems,
habitats or species, inparticular those aspects ofthe decision that are concerned with information
and assessment.

The objective o f the Invasive Species Thematic Network i s to encourage the creation and
standardization of national and sub-national databases, promote their interoperability to provide
direct access to databases currently scatteredand inaccessible, and create value-added products.

Expectedproducts for a GEF investment of $200,000 are the following:


0       Standards adopted and promoted;
0       Value-added products developed;
0       Multilingual searchandretrieval tools developed;
0       Data entry tools developed; and
0       TN operating.

The USGS i s proposed as the C Ifor the Invasive SpeciesThematic Network. The USGS will not
however receive GEF funds, butrather will help coordinate the development o f this TN. The
IABINInvasiveSpeciesInformationNetwork(I3N)was initiatedbytheUSGSinearly2001,
Thirteen countries, covering most o f the terrestrial area o fthe hemisphere, are currently invarious
stages of implementingI3N;three new participants signed up inAugust 2003.13N has been
recognized by CBD and Global Invasive SpeciesProgramme (GISP) as an initiative to be
supported. The IABINcouncil reaffirmed the key role of 13Nat its thirdmeeting. 13Nconsists of
web-accessible, national catalogs o f invasive speciesmetadata. Tools at the disposal of the
network includea cataloging and data output tool; a listserv; a virtual community; and an
extensive bilingual web site that contains a repository for data submitted by those participantsnot
able to serve their own, a Cataloguer download page with instructions, a search andbrowsepage,
instructions on creating ExtendedMarkup Language (XML)and on servingdata on the intemet,
fact sheets, contact information, sample XML output, and all pilot project documents.

For this reason it i s proposedthat 13Nbe recognizedas the IABINinvasive species thematic
network. USGS/BIOand its partners inNBIIhave made major investments to increase the
amount o fpublicly available biological information on invasive species and intemational
initiatives. The NBIIinvasive species initiative funds I3N-related activities by developing the
Invasive SpeciesInformationNode, encouraging NBIInodes to adopt data standards,
participating inGISP activities, coordinating workshops, furthering agreementsonprotocols and
standards, and providing technical assistanceto NEHIpartners.

The executingagency, incoordination with the CI, will directly execute the project funds destined
to support 13Nthrough consultancies, training, andnon-technical services.




                                                 33

1.1.5 PollinatorsThematic Network

The action of pollinators ensures reproduction for many sexually reproducingplant species and
the maintenance of genetic variability that plant populations need to survive and continue to
evolve. There are hundredsof thousands ofpollinator species such as beetles, flies, birds, bats,
wasps, ants, etc. Bees, however, are the most importantpollinators o f wild and cultivatedplants.
Information onpollinators taxonomy i s scatteredand often unavailable. An electronic Global
SpeciesDatabase(GSD) i s neededas a linkingelement to facilitate the integration o fbiological,
ecological, and agricultural information, in an efficientretrieval system.

The work of the PollinatorsThematic Network will be a direct contribution to implementationof
the CBD Plan o f Action for the InternationalInitiative for the Conservation and SustainableUse
of Pollinators.

The objective o f the PollinatorsTNi s to facilitate the integrationo f pollinator speciesinformation
at the regional level and to promote their interoperabilityto provide effective sharing of such
information. An initial goal o f this subcomponent i s to deliver the electronic multilingual New
World Bee Catalog, contributing approximately 30,000 names (valid names and synonyms) to a
Bee GSD. The effort will buildon the integrationof existing local datasets such as the checklist of
bee speciesfi-om Brazil andregional checklists such as Moure's Catalog o fNeotropicalBees,
with bee databases fromNorthAmerica. The effort will be developed aiming at future
coordinationwith relevant regional initiatives (Europe, Africa, Asia and Oceania) towards the
development o f the World Bee Catalog. This catalog will be developed usingIABINstandards,
insuringinteroperability with the Thematic Networkson specimen, species and ecosystems,andit
will support IABIN's work with the IntegratedTaxonomic Information System (ITIS).

Other activities that will be carriedout underthis subcomponent are:

        Development of an online directory of experts; and
        Expansionof the Bee Catalog to includenon-bee pollinators.

The Pollinator Catalog will be integrated with the Specimen, Species and Ecosystem Thematic
Network, thus providing the user a valuable tool that will addresspollinator issues suchas habitat
loss, ecosystem functions, naturalhistory, etc.

Expectedproducts o f $180,000 o f GEF funds are the following:


0        On-line NewWorld Bee Catalog contributing approximately 10,000 valid names and
         20,000 synonyms to the GBIF Electronic Catalog o f Life andthe Species 2000-ITIS
         Annual Checklist;
0        Online Directory of Experts;
0        Multilingualdata entry tool;
0       Multilingual training materials;
0        OnlinePollinator Catalog; and
0       Pollinator Information System linkingPollinator Catalogto Specimen, Species and
         Ecosystem Thematic Networks.




                                                  34

1.1.6 ProtectedAreas Thematic Network

Protected areas face numerous threats, including global climate change, habitat loss and
fragmentation, consumptive uses by human populations, and invasive alien species. Inaddition to
these and other threats, the conservation value of the network ofprotected areas i s weakened by a
disproportionate coverage of barren areas. Through a process o f data accumulation and
standardization followed by improved access, the protected areas thematic network may assist
countries with strategic planning and analysis o f management effectiveness, byproviding the
basis for a comprehensive informationnetwork where data on protected areas couldbe easily
located, queried, accessedfor management and scientific needs. The outputs of the World Parks
Congress heldinSouth Africa last year, and the decision and programof work adoptedbythe
CBD Conference of Parties heldinMalaysia earlier this year, both stress the importance of
protected areas inachieving conservation.

The objective of the Protected Areas Thematic Network is: i)to promote the more effective
sharing of information on protected areas within and between the countries of the region, building
on and contributing to existing global experience inthis area; and ii)to provide the tools by which
countries can assess the effectiveness of their protected area system and to sharebest practices
and lessons learned. It i s intendedthat national protected areas agencieswill work closely with a
host of other potential partners including the Information Center for the Environment (ICE) at the
University of California, Davis (on biological inventories), the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere
(MAB)Programme (onBiosphere Reserves), various other internationalagreementsand
programs on protected areas and a range of internationally active non-governmental organizations.

Expectedproducts, for a total GEF involvement of $230,000, are:


0       A prioritized and annotatedassessment ofthe users ofprotected areas data at national and
        international levels, and the data required;
0       Adoption by IABINo fprotocols and standards for protected area data, andtheir
        promotionwith multilingual training materials withinthe region;
0       Data development/sharing/synthesis;
0       Disseminationof any necessary further guidance on the application of the N C Nprotected
        area management categories within the region; and
0       Prototype tools for integrated searches of protected areas also cross referenced with
        ecosystems, species and specimen information.


Project Component2: Data Content Creation US$13.17 million
                                              -
This component includes $2.47 millionof GEF funds.

Objectives
The incorporation of standardswithin IABINneeds to be accompaniedbydevelopment of a
formal Content DevelopmentProgram. The IABINContent DevelopmentProgramwill support
multilingual training, and provide technical leadership to IABINcountries as they develop data
for access within the IABINnetwork. While Component 1will createthe network infrastructure
and the contents and standardsto access data and information through the IABINCatalog
Services and six thematic networks, Component 2 will improve the availability of critical data and
metadata.




                                                  35

The Programincludes:

0        Carrying out training sessions on the use of data creation tools;
0        Providing Grants to institutions with high quality data to support institutional efforts to
         make data available through the network (see details on matching grants insection 5.2.2);
         and
0        Data and metadataquality control.

Recipients of training and of grants (which mustbe from countries eligible for GEF funding
throughthis project) will be chosenby an evaluation committee as agreeduponby the IABIN
ExecutiveCommittee and the OAS through a competitive fundingmechanism to be detailed inthe
Operational Manual usingsome or all ofthe criteria below:

         Linkage to IAIN's thematic priorities;
         Available co-financing;
         Availability of qualified personnel and protocols;
         Relevance to multiple countries;
         Commitment to IABINstandardsand protocols;
         Impact of filling data gaps;
         Relevance for conservation and sustainable use; and
         Inclusion of indigenous TEIUbiodiversity informationprovidershsers.

Consultants, chosen competitively as described above, will cany out the training incoordination
with the CISfor the Catalog and the Thematic Networks. A Data Content Manager will coordinate
the data content activities across the Catalog systemand all the Thematic Networks. Very heavily
co-financed, this component includes $2.225 million of GEF funds for projectsplus $240,000 for
a full time position of Content Manager (providing overall support to the Data Creation
Component and also responsible for content on the IABINPortal).

Products
Products under this component will include:


0        Trained personnel throughout the hemisphere;
0        Newly preparedmetadata;
0        Newly digitized data;
0        Newly createddata andmetadataavailable for access through the IAl3INnetwork; and
0        Repatriationof information from databases and collections outside the region.


Project Component3: Information Tools for Decision-Making US$4.25 million
                                                              -
The GEF funds will contribute $0.5 millionto this component. The total for this component does
not include an additional $1.2 million grant from the World Bank's Development Grant Facility
that was approved only inMay 2004. These funds will further contributeto the objectives of this
component by improving connectivity betweenbiological and non-biological data.

Objectives
An importantultimate objective of MINis to make biodiversity informationuseful to decision-
makers inthe public and private sectors. The MINPortal will host a series of value-adding
applications that will demonstrate to decision makers how data and information can be effectively
used inthe decision makingprocess. These informationproducts could be as simple as a


                                                 36

specialized reporting for a select group ofbiological data or as complex as the species prediction
capabilities o f LifeMapper (http://www.lifemapper.org).

The major categories of decision-makers are:

1) Operational:Protected area managers, water managementofficials, andresourcemanagers.
2) Sub-national: Provincial environmental andnatural resource officials, provincial legislators.
3) National: National legislators, policy advisors and govemment officials involved innational
    planning andregulatory development, planners and strategists of large resource extraction
    companies, NGO policy developers and planners.
4) Regional and Global: Nationalleaders, advisors and officialrepresentatives to international
    organizations and conventions, CEOs ofmultinationalcompanies.

Products
Specifically, the products of this component will includestools that will allow the user to ask
questions from biodiversity and socio-economic databases inan integrated manner. The
integration of natural and social science data and information i s increasinglyrecognized as vital to
scientific research and societal decision makingrelated to a wide range of pressingenvironmental
and biodiversity issues. Under this component socio-economic data relevant to biodiversity issues
will beidentified, and tools will beprovided through the IABINPortal that will allow users to
access socio-economic and biodiversity data inan integrated manner.


Project Component 4: Sustainability of IABIN US$7.35 million
                                             -
$913,600 of GEF funds will be allocated to this component.

4.1 IABIN Secretariat

Underthis subcomponent, we includethe costs of anIABINExecutive Director andthe
Secretariat's costs of operations not covered by the host, the City of Knowledge. The Director's
salary costs will be covered on a decliningcost basis; the GEF Project support for this position
will drop to 40% by the end of the project. The Director would act as Project Coordinator andwill
sit physically inthe Secretariat. $453,000 of GEF funds will be allocated to the Secretariat
(consultancies and a small amount of goods).

An important function ofthe Director will be to seek additional financial support for the
Secretariat to bothensure adequate functioning duringthe lifetime o f the project and
subsequently. To date, IABINhas been supported by grants from the US.Geological Survey, the
World Bank, OAS,U.S. State Department, U.S. Agency for InternationalDevelopment, and the
Brazilian Government, andby in-kindcontributions from nations of the hemisphere. An
increasing number o fnations have committed to the development of IABINand will support it
with in-lundcontributions at varying levels according to their capacities. However, continued
development and maintenance of the network requires that a strategy for the financial
sustainability o f IABINbe developed and implemented.

Financial sustainability for IABINhas two components. First, sources o frecurring fundingfor the
operation of the Secretariat and other periodic activities (e.g., IABINCouncil meetings) must be
identified. Second, participatingagencies and institutions mustbe assuredof continuedintemal
funding for IABIN-related activities that are their in-kindcontributions to the development of
IABIN.GEF funds cankick-start or top-off projects and is expectedto facilitate the fund-seelung



                                                37

process by helpingits membersidentifypotential fundingsources and potential partners with
whom collaborations can be formed to leverage available resources.

4.2 Partnershipsand Communications

$460,000 o f GEF funds have beenallocated to this subcomponent. These funds will be usedfor
consultancies, for minor goods (such as communicationmaterials), for services such as organizing
meetings, and for maintainingthe IABINPortal.

This component further develops inter-governmental and inter-institutional relationships as well
as relationships with existingprograms. This will be done through:


0        Convening three IABINCouncil meetings duringthe lifetime of the project;
0        Convening two IABINExecutive Committeemeetings;
0        Negotiating agreementswith key organizations and initiatives;
0        Maintainingclose cooperation with the CHM program manager at the CBD Secretariat;
0        Collaboratingwith CHMnational focal points;
0        Producing a variety of communicationtools suchas publications, newsletters, and
         brochures; and
0        Participating inother global andregional biodiversity informatics initiatives, such as
         GBIF.

Inaddition, animportant set ofactivitiesunder this subcomponentwill focus onbuilding
partnerships with indigenous peoples, as well as providing adequateinformation and training
access for indigenous peoples, and assessingthe distinct structural issues relatedto eventual
inclusion o f traditional environmental knowledge (TEK) into IABIN.To this end, the
subcomponent will support preparation o f a needs assessment and strategy for capacity building
of indigenous TEK and biodiversity providers and users; it will also fund studies and other
activities relatedto development of policy, guidelinesand information standards for inclusion of
TEK datainIABIN.These activitieswill feed into and informimplementationoftargeted
indigenous training and policy activities under Components 1and 2 (see Components 1and2, and
Annex 9).

The IABINCouncil meetingswill be scheduled incoordination with C H M meetings, ifpossible.
Itis expectedthat IABINwill partially cover the costs of the IABINfocal points attendingthe
meetingswith GEF funds. Iti s expected that the participatingcountries will have to cover some
part of the participants' travel costs.

While IABINi s envisioned as a distributed systemo f data providers inwhich data are maintained
and controlled by the provider, a single point of access to the integratedresources o f the network
i s a key component of IABIN.The MINPortal i s inthe process ofbecoming a gateway to
biodiversity information inthe Americas as well as a mechanism for facilitating interconnection
of different institutions and agencies concerned with biodiversity conservation. The Portal will
provide simple user interfaces for sharing knowledge, discussing issues, accessingprojects and
statistical databases, andregisteringandprofiling users.

The vision for the IABINPortalis that itwill bethe "go to" website for users andproviders of
biodiversity information inthe Americas. Through the use of standards, it will provide ready
access to information throughout the region, whether that information is inrelational databases,
documents, images, map products, or other data sources. The Portal will serve as an online access



                                                38

point for the Americas and a coordination center for IABINpartners and users. Some o f these
functions could however be better implementedon various partner sites and inthese cases, the
IABINPortalwould not seek to replace them. The major components o fthe IABINPortalare:

0       General information;
0       IABINCatalogService;
0       Access to Thematic Networks;
0       Project collaborationareas and tools;
0        Specialized value-added applications;
0       Feedback mechanisms; and
a       Biodiversity Informatics Links.



ProjectComponent5: Project Administration- US$1.40 million
                                              -
This component covers administrative costs o fthe ExecutingAgency (contracting, procurement,
disbursements, audits, and evaluation). Detailed cost tables prepared by the OAS and reviewed
withthe World Bankestablisha cost o f $400,000 for the administrationo fthe project. Inaddition,
the OAS i s contributing about $1 million o f technical assistance duringthe life o f the project.

The General Secretariat o f the Organizationo f American States (GS/OAS) has been chosen by the
IABINExecutive Committee as the ExecutingAgency for the IABINGEFProject andthusis
responsible for compliance with Bankprocurement and disbursement procedures. The OAS has
considerable experience inexecuting World Bank implementedGEF projects, and through its
Unitfor Sustainable DevelopmentandEnvironment (USDE) willprovide necessary support for
procurement, legal, and financial management activities, and, workmg closely with the IABIN
Council, guarantee effective execution o fproject funds.

As a condition o feffectiveness, the OAS will prepare an Operational Manualwith complete
details o f administrative procedures including a detailed explanation o f the monitoring system.

5.1 Monitoring and Reporting

Monitoring and evaluation o f the project will be the responsibility o f the ExecutingAgency, with
the assistance o f the IABINSecretariat, the CI, and other participants as appropriate. The World
Bank, as Implementing Agency, will assist with monitoring and auditing the project as
appropriate, following Bank procedures.

The IABINSecretariat will report to the Executing Agency on the progress o f activities and the
outcomes measuredby the indicators developed (see Annex 1). The Executing Agency will
submit semiannualreports that document projectprogress to the IABINCouncil andto the World
Bank. These reports will be summaries o f progressreports compiled by the IABINSecretariat and
financial reports from the ExecutingAgency itself. These reports will draw on assessments,
reviews, minutes o fmeetings, planning and programmingdocuments, study reports, and other
documentation prepared concerningthe project. All key IABINdocuments and all reports will
also be posted on http://www.iabin.net.

As establishedinthe Grant Agreement, the GS/OAS will prepare Financial MonitoringReports
(FMRs) acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
related to the project every six months (see Annex 6(B)). These FMRs will be usedas reporting
tools to the GEF and all participating institutionsthat contribute to the project.



                                                 39

                                 Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs

    LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity InformationNetwork
                                            (IABIN)

The following table (all figures in$US) summarizes the estimated project costs and indicates the
approximate amount of committed parallel financing to for the implementation o f IABIN.
Table 1. Project costs and parallel financing




I Comp.  3 : Information TOOIS for   I              I                I                 I             I
  Decision Making
  Subtotal                                    0.50              8%              3.75             4.25

  Comp.4: Sustainabilityof IABIN
  IABINSecretariat                            0.45
  Partnershipsand Communications              0.46
  Subtotal                                    0.91             15%              6.43             7.35

  Comp. 5: ProjectAdmin.
  Subtotal                                    0.40              7%               1.00            1.40

 Total                                        6.00            100%             28.93            34.93




                                               40

Table 2. Parallelfinancingprovidedby eachinstitutionwith its profile




Academic Institutions
CaribHerp -Pennstate
   University (US-Caribbean)
Centro de Estudios
   Conservacionistas (CECON)
   Universidadde SanCarlos
   (Guatemala)
Centro de Malacologia,            24,000
   Universidad
   Centroamericana de
   Managua (Nicaragua)
Consortium for Caribbean (MC2
   Harvard University)(US-                         I
   Caribbean)
Escuela PolittcnicaNacional del                          50,000
   Ecuador
Museo Entornoltgico de Leon
   (Nicaragua)
Universidad Austral (Chile)
Universidad de Conception
   (Chile)
Universidad de 10s Andes
   ( C W L A )
Universidad de 10s Andes
   (ULABG)(Venezuela)                                    1o09000I
Universidad de Panamh
UniversidadNacional de
   T u c u d n (Argentina)
UniversidadNacional del
   Nordeste - Fac. Ciencias
   (UNNE) - Colecci6n
   Herpetologica Corrientes
Universityo f California, Davis
   (Information Center for the
   Environment)
University of Suriname                                    50,000
SUBTOTAL (ACADEMIC                                       699,000           140,000
   INSTITUTIONS)

NGOs
Asociacion Boliviana para la                              10,000            10,000
   Conservacibn TROPIC0
                   -
   (Bolivia)
BioNET International           1,050,0001350,000                1        I
                                                       ~



                                                         400,000           300,0001
BirdLife International           400,000li  100,000      100,000  100,000  100,000
City ofKnowledge Foundation      250,000                                   250,000
   (Panama)
Coleccion Boliviana de Fauna      50,000 11               50,000I


                                            41

Name of Co-financier (source)   Amount     Comp. 1     Comp. 2    Comp. 3   Comp. 4    Comp. 5
                                 (US$)*
   (Bolivia)
Comitt NacionalPro Defensa de      70,000                50,000               20,000
   la Flora y Fauna - Amigos de
   la Tierra (CODEFF) (Chile)
CRIA (Brazil)                   1,000,000   250,000     250,000    250,000   250,000
Fundacidn La Salle de Ciencias     50,000                20,000               30,000
   Naturales (FLASA)
   (Venezuela)
Fundacion de Historia Natural
   Ftlix de Azara (Argentina)
Grupo de Conservation de
   Germoplasma ex situ de
   Rakes y Tuberosas Andinas
   (RTA's) (Andes)
FundacionHabitat y Desarrollo
   (Argentina)
Guyra Paraguay
Herbario Nacionalde Bolivia        155,000    55,000                         100,000
Herbario Nacionalde Ecuador       350,000   250,000     100,000
IADIZA-CRICYT (Argentina)         280,000            I  100,000 I  100,000 I  80,000 I
INBio (Costa Rica)               1,050,000  750,000 I   250,000 I             50,000 I
Instituto Alexander von            175,000
   Humboldt (Colombia)                       loo,ooo                       I  75,000 I
Instituto de Botanica Darwinion    75,000
   (Argentina)                                       I   75y000I           I         I
Instituto Geografico de           250,000     75,000II1         I   100,000I  75,000 I
   Venezuela
Museo Argentino de Ciencias        150,000
   Naturales (MACN)
   (Argentina)
Museo de la Plata -- Argentina
Museo de Zoologia, Universidad      15,000
   de Costa Rica
Museo Nacional de Costa Rica       151,000    21,000     100,000               30,000
Museo Nacional de Historia         325,000   100,000    225,000
   Natural (Chile)
Natureserve (US)                2,500,000    600,000     800,000   600,000    500,000
National BiodiversityNetwork      216,000    100,000     100,000               16,000
Smithsonian (US)
Smithsonian (Panama)               120,000
The Nature Conservancy          5,000,000
West IndianWhistling-Duck         200.000             1  150.000 I             50.000 I
SUBTOTAL(NGOs)                  13,902,000 4,001,000 I 4,295,000 I2,400,000I3,206,000 I
                                                     I           I         I          I
Governments                                                                                   1
Autoridad Nacional del
   Ambiente P a n a d
WB Colombia Disaster               TBD
   Management Project (WB)
Conabio (Mexico)                2.500.000  1,000,000   1,500,000



                                              42

I Corporacih   Nacional Forestal
     (CONAF) (Chile)
  Env. SALS(WB) (Mexico,
     Brazil)
 Honduras Disaster Vulnerability
     (WB: support to SINIA)
  IABINFocalPoints of
    participating countries
 MINAE(Costa Rica)
 Ministerio de Ciencia y



    Recursos Naturales
    (MARENA)(Nicaragua)
 MinistryofEnvironment (Haiti)
 Ministry ofHealthandEnv.
     (Bahamas)
 MIZA (Venezuela)
 Nicaragua Second Rural
    Municipality Project of WB
     (support to SINIA)
  SERNA (Honduras)
  Servicio Agricola y Ganadero
     (Chile)
  SUBTOTAL

I U.S.Government
 13N(NBII)(USGS)
 USGS/EROS Data Center
 USGS/NBII
  SUBTOTAL (US. GOVT.)

 Recipient
 OAS
 SUBTOTAL (RECIPIENT)

 Multilateral Agencies
 Convenio Andres Bello (CAB)
    (Andes)
 CCAD




IDevelopment Grant Facility
    (WR)
 MBC/WB/Dutch Trust Fund
 LT'EP (GRID)
 UNEPCaribbean CAR RCU



                                    43

 (MULTILATERAL
 INSTITUTIONS

TOTAL PARALLEL                  28,936,000    1,500,000  3,250,000      700,000     900,000    1,000,000
 FINANCING

 *Ifno amountis indicated, the IECreceivedonly aletter ofsupport without aparallel financing
 commitment. TBD indicates that such commitment is still under consideration.
 ** Funding o f $1.2 million from the Bank's Development Grant Facility was approved too recently to
 incorporate into this table.




                                                 44

                                  Annex 4: incrementalCost Analysis

    LATINAMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
                                                (IAB1N)

Baseline Scenario

Inthe baseline scenario, institutionsresponsible for collectingandmaintaining informationon
biological diversity do so independentlywithout a formalized information sharing mechanism, or at
best through ad hoc sharing between a small number of organizations. Informationsharing between
institutions i s informal and limitedto the sub-regional level.

Duringpreparationofthe project, we requestedestimatesofbaseline fundingandparallel financing
from a great many institutions across the region. Activities by the approximately 70 parallel
financing academic, scientific, governmental andnon-governmental institutions for baseline
activities account for US$28 million.The baseline activities are generally: (i)  Improving access to
databases at institution level ($0.5 million); (ii)
                                                  Dataset creationat institution level for various
biological information datasets ($26.77 million); and (iii) Maintaining sustainability of databases
($0.77 million). We consider this the baseline funding given that the Project will most likely work
with the institutions that were sufficiently motivated andinterestedto sign agreements. However, it
couldjust as easily be argued that ifwe were to include all institutions inthe Americas that deal in
biological information and that will be future beneficiaries o f IABIN,baseline financing wouldbe
inthe hundredsofmillions ofdollars peryear.

Under the baseline scenario, differentinstitutions collect and maintainbiological information that
i s of importance to local biodiversity. However, without a uniform structure and standardsto create
and record the information, compatibility and knowledge sharing i s not realizedbetween
institutions. The dominant share of the baseline activities, i.e. over 95 percent o f the costs, are for
data creation activities. Activities to develop a network to connect the different databases inthe
region to facilitate efficient information sharing are minimal.

GEFAlternative

The GEF alternative would expand on the existing set of data inthe region andpromote greater
management and coordination inthe collection, sharing and use o fbiodiversity information
relevant to decisionmaking and education. Itwould result inthe creation of information
compatible to region-wide standards and an intemet basednetwork to promote inter-exchange of
scientific knowledge crucial for sustainableuse of biological resources.

Dueto the internationalnature ofmanybiologicalresources suchas migrating species,
internationalwatershedsand ecosystems, activities implemented inone country will often cause
serious consequencesinother surrounding countries. The GEF alternative addresses this issueby
facilitating exchange of information across borders. Furthermore, implementation of the GEF
alternative would develop research and other value added activities of aregional scope that would
not have been possible under the baseline scenario. Policymakerswould therefore be able to better
address issues relatednot only to national biological resources but those with regional as well as
internationalconsequences.




                                                   45

                                IncrementalCostMatrix

Component 1:      Baseline                 Alternative               Increment(of
Interoperability                                                     which GEF)
and accessto
data
cost (US$                             0.5                     9.26         8.76 (1.72)
million)
Domestic Benefits * Institutesinthe        Developregional
                  region construct         consensus on standards
                  databases without a      for communication,
                  uniform compatibility    taxonomic
                  standard, thus           information, metadata,
                  hinderinginformation     controlled
                  sharing.                 vocabularies, and

                  * Individual             record structures to
                               databases   ensureregion-wide
                  remain unlinked          compatibility to
                                           promote greater
                                           coordination, better
                                           management and
                                           decision-making o f
                                           biological information
Global Benefits




                                           Biological Diversity
Component2:       Baseline                 Alternative               Increment(of
DataContent
Creation                                                           IIwhich GEFj
Cost (US$ million)                   26.7;                    39.94        13.17 (2.47)
Domestic Benefits Eachinstitution          Multilingualdata
                  createstheir datasets    creationiools will
                  according to different   enable institutions to
                  standards and            create compatible
                  structures               datasets and a high
                                           quality metadata set
Global Benefits                            Creation ofregion-
                                           wide compatible
                                           datasetswill help
                                           fulfillthe mandateof
                                           the Clearing-House
                                           Mechanismof the



                                          46

                                             Convention on
                                             Biological Diversitv
Component3:       Baseline                   Alternative               Increment(of
Information                                                            which GEF)
Productsfor
DecisionMakers
Cost (US$ million)                         n                    4.25            4.25 (0.5)
Domestic Benefits  Region-wide              IABINPortalwill host
                   applications of          value added
                   datasets i s hindered    applications that will
                   due to incompatibility   provide capabilities for
                   between institutions     advancedpresentation,
                   usingdifferent data      analysis and assessment
                   structures               of biological data
Global Benefits                             Value added application
                                            will contribute to a
                                            greater understanding
                                            and better decision-
                                            making of conservation
                                            and sustainable use o f
                                            biological diversity
Component4:        Baseline
Sustainabilityof                                                       whirh C,Eli'\
IABIN                                                                II..----- --- '
                   * Regular            0.77                    8.12            7.35(0.91)
                               maintenance The IABINsecretariat
                   and upgradingof          will ensure financial
                  respective databases
                   * Awareness              sustainability and
                                  building  quality control even
                  to facilitate database    after the completion of
                   use                      the project
Global Benefits                             Same as domestic

Component 5:      Baseline                   Alternative               Increment(of
Project                                                                which GEF)
Administration
Cost (US$ million)                         C                      1.4             1.4 (0.4)
Total              Baseline                  Alternative               Increment
cost (US$                             28.04                     62.97         34.93 (6.00)
million)




                                            47

                            Annex 5: FinancialSummary

   LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversityInformation Network
                                    (IAB1N)

                        Year1  Year2      Year3   Year4    Year5       Total
 Project Costs
 Investment Costs        0.99     1.42      1.38    1.19     1.02      6.00
~Recurrent Costs            0        0         0       0        0         0
 Total Project Costs     0.99     1.42      1.38    1.19     1.02      6.00

 Financing
 GEF                     0.99     1.42      1.38    1.19     1.02      6.00
 Governments             0.95     1.36      1.32    1.13     0.99      5.75
 NGOs                    2.43     3.49      3.39    2.90     2.49      14.70
 Foreign Multi-lateral   0.35    0.51       0.49    0.42     0.36      2.13
 US Government           1.05     1SI       1.47    1.25     1.08      6.35

 Total Financing         5.76I    8.28 I    8.06I   6.89I    5.91 I    34.93




                                       48

                             Annex 6(A): ProcurementArrangements

   LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversityInformation Network
                                                (IABIN)

Procurement

A.       General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordancewith the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" publishedby the Bank inJanuary
1995 andrevised inJanuary and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World BankBorrowers" publishedby the Bank in
January 1997 andrevisedinSeptember 1997 and January 1999, and the provisions stipulated inthe
Grant Agreement. The general description of various items under different expenditure category
are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and time frame are agreedbetween the Recipientand the Bank inthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Planwill be updatedat least annually.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procuredunder this project would include some computer and
office equipment. The total amount for the entire life o f the project under this category i s $30,000.
Since no individual purchasewill be above $25,000, the procurement will be done using
Internationaland National Shopping basedon comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers and usingdocuments satisfactory to the Bank.

Procurement of non-consulting services: Technical Services will consist of logistics
arrangementsinvolvingvarious meetings of Technical Working Groups, Council meetings, and
training. Extensive work will be undertaken with data holders to provide them with training and
assistanceinconverting existing data to LABIN-compatible standards, and with member countries
to organize training activities inbiological informatics. Inaddition, virtual forums pertinent to
biodiversity information and targeted to different audienceswould be organized and training and
outreachmaterials developed. Individual contracts for technical services are not expected to cost
more than $250,000 and they will beprocuredusingInternationaland National Shopping basedon
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers and usingdocuments
satisfactory to the Bank.

Selection of Consultants :Coordinating Institutions will behiredto coordinate Thematic
Networks to improve interoperability among network information sources, and development o f
analytical tools and training materials to facilitate access to and use ofnetwork content. CISmust
show that they will be willing to provide cofinancingto be eligible to bid on these contracts.
Individual consultants will be hiredto implement a communications andpartnership strategy, to
administer and supervise the implementation of the initiative as the IABINSecretariat, to develop
and maintainthe IABINIntemet-based Portal, etc.

Operating Costs: Operating Costs relatedto reasonablerecurrent expenditures that would not
have been incurredby the Recipient for operation andmaintenance of office equipment needed for
the implementationo fthe Project, would be financedby the project and would be procuredusing
the ExecutingAgency's administrativeprocedures which were reviewed and found acceptableto
the Bank. Inaddition the project administrative costs of the ExecutingAgency are included as
operating costs.


                                                    49

MatchingGrants:Under component 2 o f the project, matching grants (or "IABIN Subprojects")
w.ill be awarded to institutions with highquality data, to support their efforts to improve the
availability o f critical data and metadata through the network. Recipients o f these grants will be
selected througha competitive fundingmechanismusingthe provisional criteria inAnnex 2, to be
further detailed inthe Operational Manual. A call for proposals will be published inIABI"s
website and a selection committee, approved by the IEC, will rate the proposals to determine which
institutionswill receive the award. The selected institutions will sign a contract with the GSlOAS
defining the use o f the funds and the co-financing.


B.       Assessment of the aaencv's cauacitv to implement procurement

Most procurement activities will be carried out by the OAS Headquarters inWashington, DC.
Some minor shopping activities may be carried out from the OAS office inPanama City, Panama.
A Project Operational Manualis beingpreparedand itwill include, inadditionto the description of
each procurement procedure, the Request for Proposals (RFP) document to be used for the
selection o f consulting firms and guidance for the request for quotations.

An assessment o f the capacity o f the General Secretariat o fthe OAS to implementprocurement
actions was carried out by the Bank inOctober 2001 duringthe preparation o f the Environmental
Protectionand Sustainable Development o f the Guarani Aquifer System project which i s now
being implementedby the GS/OAS. The assessment determined that the GS/OAS has the
necessary infrastructure and humanresources to carry out and manage its procurement in an
orderly and well established manner. Since the OAS office inPanama City will only be responsible
for carrying out simple shopping procedures for a total amount o f $30,000 for the entire life o fthe
project, it was deemed unnecessary to carry out a procurement capacity assessment o f that office.
The GS/OAS will ensure that the OAS office inPanama City will have the Operational Manual
withthe instructions andappropriate documents to carry out Shoppingprocedures acceptable to the
Bank.

The overall project risk for procurement i s "Average".

C.       Procurement Plan

The OAS developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation. This plan was analyzed and
agreed between the OAS and the Project Team duringnegotiations. The Procurement Planwill be
updated inagreement with the Bank annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project
implementationneeds.

D.       Freauencv of Procurement Supervision

Inaddition to the priorreview supervision to be carried out fromBank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the OAS has recommended that every 12 months a supervision mission visits the
OAS offices at Headquarters to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.




                                                   50

Attachment1

                                  Procurement Methods (Table A)
                                       (US$ million equivalent)




1. Goods other than under                                              0.03                0.03
IABlN Subprojects
2. Consultants'Servicesother       1.41         1.56                                       2.97
than under IABINSubprojects
3. Non-consultanttechnical                                             0.64                0.64

4. Goods andlor Consultants'                               1.37                            1.37
services under IABIN
Subprojects
5. Training                                                            0.57                0.57
6. Operating Costs                                                     0.02        0.40    0.42
Total                              1.41         1.56       1.37        1.26        0.40    6.00




                            Table AI :ConsultantSelection Arrangements
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




 B. Individuals                 0.00        0.00      0.00        1.41      0.00       1.41

                       Total    1.56        0.00      0.00        1.41      0.00       2.97
    1\ Including contingencies
               Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                      QBS = Quality-basedSelection
                      SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                      LCS = Least-CostSelection
                      CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                      Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
                      ConsultantsGuidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
                      N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                      Figuresare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.




                                                  51

   Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                                                                 ContractsSubjectto
                                                                    Prior Review

                                                  ICB                    All
                                               Shopping          First contract only

other than under IABIN
Subprojects
a) Firms                                         QCBS                    All
                                                  CQ             First contract only
                                             Sole sourcing               All

b) Individuals                                Section V of               All
                                          2onsultants Guidelines
                                             Sole sourcing               All
                          I
3. Non-consultanttechnical                     Shopping          Firstcontract only
services




                                       52

           Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
     LATINAMERICA Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity Information Network
                                                  (IABIN)

FinancialManagement
1.Summary ofthe FinancialManagementAssessment
1.1Capacity Assessment

The Bank has reviewed the financial management and monitoring systems already inuse by the
OAS to implement projects funded by multilateral financial institutions. This review includedthe
evaluation o f the organization, qualifications and responsibility o f the staff, decision making
process, accountingpolicies and procedures, disbursement and reimbursement procedures, and
reporting and auditing arrangements. The OAS has appropriate infrastructure and human resources,
both inheadquarters and inthe resident missions, to carry out and manage its procurement inan
orderly and well established manner. The financial management information system inuse by the
OAS i s a very complete software based on the registrationo f operations and transactions.
Nevertheless, some arrangements have to be made to provide the Bankwith the necessary
information for the preparation o f Bank account reconciliationand for the monitoring o f the project
usingthe financial monitoringreports (FMRs).

1.2 Financial flows
Following i s a detailed explanation o f how funds flow from the Implementing Agency throughthe
Executing Agency.

1.2.1 Prior to receiving funds
1)      The OAS and the WorldBank sign a Grant Agreement. Before opening an award inthe
        GS/OAS enterprise administrative system (OASES), the OAS Department o f Financial
        Services (DFS) must receive a copy o f this agreement.
2)      DFS records an award inOASES that identifies the donor, the amount o f the agreement,
        the dates o f execution, and the executing Unit among other specifics.
3 )     The technical unitresponsible for executing the funds, the USDE inthe case o fIABIN,
        prepares a template and sends a request to DFS to open a Operating Account, specific for
        the project, identifying the source o f funds (award).
4)      DFS opens the project's Operating Account, a unique number that identifiesthe project,
        and defines a specific project-award combination.
5)      After the Bank receives evidence satisfactory to it that the Operating Account has been
        duly opened, it deposits a contribution inthe OAS' Bank ofAmerica account equivalent to
        the authorized allocation stipulated inthe Grant Agreement.
6)      DFS enters an installment amount inthe award to reflect the payment receivedfi-om the
        donor, and delimits the maximumamount o f funds that the project canreceive from this
        award.
7)      DFS gives abudgetto the specific project-award combination, meaningthat project funds
        can be executed.

1.2.2 Executionof funds
1)      Following the program o f activities approved by the IABINExecutive Committee and
        conforming to the provisions stipulated inthe Grant Agreement, the USDE begins
        execution o fproject funds.




                                                   53

         Under the project-award combination, USDE creates a requisition encumbrance (pre-
         obligation) inthe OAS Enterprise System (OASES) to record a future purchase, contract,
         or travel expense.
         OAS departments (legal, procurement, andDFS) verify purchasing and contracting
         procedures, and also availability o f funds before converting any requisition into a Purchase
         Order (PO), a firm commitment between the OAS and a supplier. When applicable, POs
         are sent to National Offices by close o fbusiness day.
         Payments against POs are made upon confirmation o f delivery of product or services to
         OAS satisfaction. The USDE i s responsible for authorizingand requesting to DFS
         disbursement or transfer o f funds.
         Payments at headquarters are directly paidby DFS and immediately chargedto the
         project's Operating Account. Payments inthe field are made through the OAS National
         Offices by transferring funds to the country. National Offices wait for the technical unitto
         authorize payment and following OAS procedures, request appropriate documentation
         before disbursing funds.
         National Offices process payments inOASES and disburse funds via the national bank
         account. An authorization inOASES to cut a check simultaneously debits the project's
         Operating Account. Account information at the Award and Project level i s updated on a
         daily basis.
         Payments out of the Operating Account will be made exclusively for eligible expenditures
         inaccordance with the provisions stipulatedinthe Grant Agreement.

Figure 1below shows a schematic o f the executiono fproject funds.



                               Figure 1.Execution of Project Funds


                                                                             IABIN
                                                                            Executive
                                                                            Committee


              c                                                         Program of Activities
              OAS Bank Account                                                 4I




                                                                             Vendor




                                                   54

1.3 CounterpartandParallelFunding
Parallelfinancing o f $28.9 million dollars from seventy-eight regional or national institutionsand
programs has been identified (see Annex 3, Table 2). This amount o f parallel financing i s well in
excess o f the suggested amount o f parallel financing (2:1) that was originally requestedby the
GEF.Muchofthe co-financingrepresents parallel financing from institutions that will be
redirecting or directing funds insupport o fthe objectives o f IABIN.Although representinga
tremendous leverage o f the use o f GEF funds, much o f this parallel financing i s not indispensable
for the implementation o f critical project activities.

Incontrast, we have identifiedalmost $10 millionof"core" parallelfinancingthat is considered
essential to implement certain critical parts o f the project. These include the following:


0        Parallel financing (at least 2:1, thus double the amount o f the GEF contribution) from the
         institutions that will be under contract as CoordinatingInstitutions inComponent 1;
0        Matching contributions (at least 1:1) from the organizations that will receive the data
         content creation grants under Component 2;
0        Parallel financing (at least 2:1) from the institutionsthat will be under contract to develop
         new information tools inComponent 3;
0        Parallel financing from the City o fKnowledge inPanama for the costs o f the Secretariat
         (Component 4);
0        Parallel financing from the United States Geological Service (USGS) which will be
         providing core support to Component 1;and
0        Parallel financing from the OAS as a contribution to the management and administration o f
         IABIN(Component 5).

A breakdown o fthe core parallel financing by source and component is shown inthe table below:




 Parallelfinancin



     Secretariat




The core parallel financing i s substantiatedby various instruments. Parallel financing o f
coordinating institutionsand from institutionsreceiving grants will be documented incontractual
agreements. The parallel financing from the USGS i s documented insigned letters o f support; these
are not legal contracts but inthe unlikely event this fundingwas not forthcoming, the project team
would be able to substitute similar core support from a number o f different sources. The
availability o f this lundo f support i s evidenced inletters o f commitment and support receivedfrom
other leadinginformatics institutions. The parallel financing from the City of Knowledge i s
documented ina signed Letter o f Agreement with the IEC, which, althoughnot representing a legal
contract per se, because IABINdoes not yet have a legal personality, i sjudged to represent a very



                                                     55

firmcommitment. Finally, the General Secretariat OAS commitment, as mandatedinseveral OAS
General Assembly Resolutions, is also indicated ina signed letter. The OAS i s the diplomatic host
o f IABINand their long-term commitment to IABINi s very firm.

The OAS will be responsible for tracking parallel financing, both core and non-core, duringproject
implementation with the assistance o f the IABINFocal Points and IABINSecretariat. The
appropriate forms and guidelines will be designed before project effectiveness setting value
benchmarks for various types o fparallel financing such as personnel, physical infrastructure, and
connectivity. Such forms will facilitate the tracking ofparallel financing by project components.

As part ofthe competitiveprocess to select consultants and grantees, Requests for Proposals
(RFPs) will be prepared stipulating that contracts with selectedinstitutionswill include the amount
o fparallel financing they are providing for the activity and will require that their records are
available for review by external auditors ifrequested. The reportedparallel financing will be
evaluated against the list o f benchmarks and the expected output before registering it in a
cofinancing database. CoordinatingInstitutions and grantees will report parallel financing as part o f
periodic progress reports or every six months, whichever occurs first. The OAS, IABINSecretariat,
and other institutions will be requestedto report their parallel financing semiannually. The
cofinancing database will track parallel financing by country, institution, and project components.

1.4 FinancialMonitoring andReportingArrangements

The Executing Agency will submit semi-annual reports that document project progress to the
IABINCouncil andto the World Bank. These financial monitoringreports (FMRs) willbe
summaries o fprogress reports compiledby the IABINSecretariat and financial reports fiom the
ExecutingAgency itself. The FMRsand other project reports will draw on assessments, reviews,
minutes o f meetings, planning and programming documents, study reports, and other
documentation prepared concerning the project. All key IABINdocuments and all semi-annual
reports will also be posted on http://www.iabin.net. Monitoringand evaluation o f the project will
be the responsibility o f the Executing Agency, with the assistance o f the IABINSecretariat, the CI,
and other participants as appropriate.

The FMRs will include the following reports:

1.      Sources and Uses o f Funds, for each quarter and cumulative including a forecast for the
        next six months. The format will reflect the receipts and payments, and the net available
        cash.
2.      Uses o fFundsby Project Component, Activity and type o f Expenditurebased on the
        project cost description approved for the operation.
3.      Physical Progress Report for each quarter, consideringthe project component, activity and
        output, comparing the total for the project life, the cumulative to date and the actual as a
        percentage (%) o f the total planned for project life.
4.      A Subsidiary Ledger to allow the identificationof allthe receipts andexpenditures related
        to the project, including the accounting bank account.
5.      A yearly statement o fchanges infundbalance ofthe project, certifiedbythe Treasurer o f
        the executing agency, attesting to the accuracy and completeness of contributionsby the
        Bank and disbursements by the executing agency, and further certification that the in-hnd
        contribution amounts are consistent with the methodology agreed upon betweenthe Bank
        and the executing agency.




                                                  56

1.5 ProjectFinancialManagement Supervision
Project financial management supervision will be conducted at least once a year by the assigned
financial managementspecialist from the Bank.

1.6 OperationalManual
Theroles, organization, and coordinationarrangements shouldbeincludedina project Operational
Manual (OM) which will serve as guidelinesfor all stakeholders involved inthe project. The OM
shouldinclude an organizational chart, roles, and responsibilities of the different participants,
procurement procedures, financial arrangements, monitoring and evaluation procedures, and
projectreporting, following OAS and Bank guidelines.The OM should also include counterpart
resources arrangements, and benchmarkingcriteria for in-kindcontributions.

2. Audit Arrangements
EmstandYoung are currentlythe GS/OAS(General SecretariadOAS) external auditors. The Bank
will rely on the OAS external audit process, inparticular accepting OAS annual audited financial
statements for the purpose of complying with Bank`s audit requirements (`single audit opinion`
concept). GSiOAS will request the auditors to performareview of the project as part of GS/OAS
annual audit review. Special arrangementswere agreedbetween the OAS and the Bankto prepare
an amendment to the terms of reference of the extemal auditors' contract to include the following
paragraph: "The financial transactions of the specific fund projects shown inthe attached schedule
[which schedule to list the IABINProject] are an integral part of the financial records of the
GS/OAS whichare audited on a yearly basiswithin the context of the external audit commissioned
by the Boardof ExternalAuditors o fthe GS/OAS. The GS/OAS agrees to furnishcopies ofthese
audit reports to the WorldBank along with such other relatedinformation as may berequestedwith
respect to any questions arising from the audit report." The exemption from the Bank's normal
audit requirement for annual extemal audits when the OAS i s the direct recipient o f the grant, has
been granted with a decision by the Financial Management Operations Review Committee
(FMROC) on May 18,2004.

Inaddition, intemalauditingprocedures areperformedbytheOfficeoftheInspector General
charged with the responsibility to assist the Secretary General and the governing bodiesto monitor
the managemento f GS/OAS'sprograms and resources, and adherenceto the rules andregulations
governing the execution of these resources.The internal control and auditing system ensures an
adequate follow up o f the use of funds.


3. DisbursementArrangements
3.1 OperatingAccount
The GS/OAS will maintaininDollars an Operating Account onterms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure, or attachment. Followingits
Budgetaryand FinancialRules, the GS/OAS does not open a separate bank account for each of its
specific projects. However, eachproject andrelated disbursements are kept ina separate General
Ledger account inthe OAS Enterprise System(OASES) through an award which i s opened for
every project. The OASES is a tightly integrated set of Oracle Applications that allows the
GS/OAS to manage the entire cycle from quota or donors receivables to project management to
supplier payment. The award structure allows total segregationof funds and allows tracking of all
financial transactions. Though cash i s keptina single bank account, funds are not commingled.

3.2 Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs)
Disbursementswill be made onthe basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under
contracts requiringprior reviewby the Bank, and contracts whose value will be raisedabove the


                                                  57

prior review limitsas a result of amendments. All consolidated SOEs documentation will be
maintainedby OAS for post-review and audit purposes. Reimbursement requests should be sent to
the Bank on a monthly basis.

3.3 Replenishment
The authorized first allocationto the Operating Account will beUS$600,000. Monthly
replenishment o f funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous
advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted insupport of disbursement applications.
Replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocation(s) will be made initially on the basis of
Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other
documentation specified inthe Disbursement Handbook.

3.4 Accounting Arrangements
The financial management andreporting systemfor the project, includingthe Operating Account,
shall meet the requirements of the Bank. This includes maintenance of an Operating Account, the
preparation of financial reports, and auditinginaccordance with international accounting and
auditing standards. The accounting systemshould provide specific information regarding:


0        Parallel financing (at least 2:1, thus double the amount o f the GEF contribution) from the
institutions that will be under contract as CoordinatingInstitutions inComponent 1;
0        Matching contributions (at least 1:1) from the organizations that will receive the data
content creation grants under Component 2;
0        Parallel financing (at least 2:1) from the institutions that will be under contract to develop
newinformation tools inComponent 3;
0        Parallel financing from the City ofKnowledge inPanamafor the costs of the Secretariat
(Component 4);
0        Parallel financing from the UnitedStates Geological Service (USGS) which i s a critical
partner of IABINand will be providing core support to several different components; and
0        Parallel financing from the OAS as a contribution to the management and administration of
IABIN(Component 5).




                                                    58

                                Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds




  Non-consultant technical services                      0.64           100%
  Goods and/or Consultants' services under               1.37           100%
  IABINSubprojects
  Training                                               0.57           100%
  Operating Costs                                        0.42           100%


  Total ProjectCosts with Bank Financing                 6.00

I Total                                                  6.00




                                                59

                             Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule

  LATINAMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversityInformation Network
                                              (IABIN)

ProjectSchedule                                        Planned               Actual

Time taken to prepare the project (months)              16                     26
First Bank mission (identification)                     12101/2001             01/13/2002
Appraisal mission departure                             03/01/2003             0311712004
Negotiations                                            0410If2003             04120/2004
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           08113f2004


   Prepared by:
   IABINExecutive Committeeandthe Organization ofAmerican States.




Armando Guzmhn              Consultant
Dianelva Montas             ProgramAssistant
Fabiola Altimari            Legal Counsel
Irani Escolano              Procurement Specialist
Keiko Ashida                Operations Analyst
Loretta Sprissler           Social Developmenthdigenous Specialist
LuisSchwarz                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist
MoragVan Praag              Sr. Financial Officer
NadaBeainy                  Intern
Reynaldo Pastor             Sr. Counsel
Vincent Abreu               Consultant
Yabanex Batista             Junior Professional Associate
YurieTanimichi              Economist

   Preparationassistance:
   IABINCouncilMembers: 34FocalPointsandNGOrepresentatives
   IEC: Gladys Cotter -UnitedStates o f America (Chair), DavenJoseph-Antigua and
   Barbuda, Fhtima Pires de Almeida Oliveira -Brazil, Francisco Gonzhlez Salas -Costa Rica,
   Raul Estrada Oyuela -Argentina, Antonio Matamoros -Ecuador, Elaine Fisher-Jamaica,
   Maria Luisa del Rio Mispireta-Peru, and ChstophHaeuser-Global Biodiversity
   Information Facility
   The OAS: RichardHuber, Andrea Lalinde, Arturo Restrepo
   USGS: Barbara Bauldock, Andrea Grosse
   NBII:MikeFrame, Technology Manager
   NipponKoei: Paul Driver,Team Leader and Jerry Harrison, UNEP-WCMC




                                                 60

                             Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File

   LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity Information Network
                                                (IABIN)

A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Component ImplementationPlan(s), Costs, Timetable andProcurement Plan
PDF-B Regional and sub-regional reports

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
NipponKoei Reports "Support to Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity InformationNetwork"
(see below for titles)




      6.2     ComparativeReviewof Thesauri
 7.1        Recommendations on Bioinformatics Standards and Practices for donor-financed projects
      7.2     Reviewof internationalinitiativesin metadata management
      7.3     Reviewof experience in developing interoperablesystems for internationaldata managementand
             sharing

C. Other
Access to Informationand Intellectual Property Regulation for IABIN,the OAS.
Financial Sustainabilityo f IABIN, Miguel Pellerano and Fernando Frydman, May 2002.
See the web site of IABIN(http://www.iabin.net) for many other background andrelated
documents.


                                                   61

                                Annex 9: Indigenous Peoplesand IABIN

   LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversityInformation Network
                                                    (IABIN)
Background

Indigenous peoples have long beenrecognized as playing an important role inthe maintenance and
sustainable use of mucho f the world's biodiversity. This i s particularly evident inthe case of the
Americas, which includesamong its population a vast array of indigenous societies living, for the
most part, inthe hinterlandareas containingthe richest stores of biological diversity. The
geographic overlap with conservation sites i s especially significant, with indigenous people living
in8045% ofprotectedareasinLatinAmerica.'

Fiveofthe ten most biologically diverse countries inthe world canbe found inthe western
hemisphere (Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Mexico). The region i s also characterized by a
richcultural diversity, withsome 50millionindigenous people malungupabout 13percent ofthe
total population. A total of about 400 aboriginal or native languages are still spoken throughout the
region. Today, they comprise large parts o f the rural peasantand migrant populations o fMexico,
Central America, and the Andean countries. Inthe Amazon Basinregion, there are also scores of
relatively isolated tribal societies, some of whichhave only recently come into sustained contact
with outsiders as aresult ofroadbuildingand land settlement programs. Inthe United States and
Canada, native tribes continue to populate some of the most pristine areas.

While the mainpolicy and research focus relatedto biodiversity has been on the biological and
economic consequences o fbiodiversity loss, growing attention i s beingpaid to the related
importance of maintaining the cultural diversitythat i s often reflectedinspecialized indigenous
knowledge o fnaturalresource management and enhancing the role of indigenous people in
biodiversity protection. The 1992 Global Biodiversity Strategy, for example, includes as one of its
ten principles for conserving biodiversity the principle that "Cultural diversity i s closely linkedto
biodiversity. Humanity's collective knowledge of biodiversity and its use and management rests in
cultural diversity; conversely, conserving biodiversity often helps strengthen cultural integrity and
values."'

This was further developed inthe subsequent 1992Convention onBiological Diversity(CBD),
which inits preamble recognizes the

         close and traditional dependenceo fmany indigenous and local communities embodying traditional
         lifestyles onbiological resources, and the desirability o f sharing equitably arising from the use o f
         traditional knowledge, innovations andpractices relevant to the conservationo f biological diversity
         and the sustainable use o f its components.

Article So'), whichi s concerned with indigenous peoples and in situ conservation, calls on the
Parties to:

         respect, preserve and maintain knowledge, innovations andpractices o f indigenous and local
         communities embodying traditional lifestyles relevant for the conservation and sustainable use o f
         biological diversity and promote their wider application with the approval and involvement o fthe
         holders o f such knowledge, innovations and practices and encourage the equitable sharing o f the
        benefits arising from the utilization o f such knowledge, innovations and practices.




                                                       62

Similarly, the CBD Clearing-House Mechanism, whichwas established to facilitate the access of
all governments to the information and technologies they needfor their work on biodiversity, has
targeted special efforts "to ensurethe participationo f indigenous communities, whose unique
knowledge and expertise are so im~ortant."~

The Role of Traditional EnvironmentalKnowledge

The term "traditional knowledge" is oftenusedto refer to the complete body ofknowledge,
practices and innovations developed and maintained by indigenous and local communities. The
more specific concept of "traditional environmental knowledge" (TEK) hasbeen definedas "a
body of knowledgebuilt by a group of people through generations living inclose contact with
nature. Itincludes a system of classification, a set of empirical observations about the local
environment, and a system o f self-management that governs resource use."4

Over the past few decades, many academics and scientists have grown increasingly interested in
the sophistication of TEK among many forest communities. For example, the Shuar people of
Ecuador's Amazonian lowlands use 800 species of plantsfor medicine, food, animal fodder, fuel,
construction, fishing andhunting supplies. Traditional healers inSoutheastAsia rely on as many as
6,500 medicinalplants, and shiftingcultivatorsthroughout the tropics frequently sow more than
100crops intheir forest farms. Indigenous peoplesplant forest gardens andmanageregenerationof
bushfallows inways which take advantageofnaturalprocessesandmimic the biodiversity of
natural forests. Mucho f the world's crop diversityi s maintainedby farmers who follow age-old
farming and landuse practices that conserve biodiversity and provide other local benefit^.^

Traditional environmentalknowledge has also beenan important resource intechnologies based
uponthe manipulation, adaptation or use of biological resources.This i s especially evident inthe
pharmaceutical sector, where a recent analysis has shown that over halfo f the top 150brands
prescribed contained at least one active compound derived or patterned after compounds derived
frombiological diversity.Furthermore, the vast majority (94%) of the 35 plant-derived drugs
includedinthe top 150, contained at least one compound that hada similar use intraditional
medicine as in"western" bio-medicine.6

Recent years have seen growing acknowledgement of the importance of traditional knowledgeby
conservation and international development agencies, including the World Bank,who increasingly
seek to integrate indigenous and traditional resource managementpractices with their own
biodiversity conservation and sustainable development strategies.

Nevertheless, despite increasingrecognitionof the potential for integrating traditional knowledge
into sustainable development strategies, "western" scientists, ingeneral, still remain largely
skeptical about the utilityor validity o f TEK. This i s mainly due to the vastly different world
views, that cannot be easily reconciled, governinghow environmentalknowledge is generated,
recorded, transmitted, andmanaged. Most solutions offered by traditional knowledge systems are
usually localized and context-specific, andtherefore cannot be extricatedfrom that context and
generalized without affecting their potential effectiveness -which      flies inthe face of the principle
ofreplicability guiding occidental science.

Skepticism i s also based onthe perceptionthat TEK, to the extent that it offers viable solutions to
biodiversitymanagement and sustainable development problems, i s being irreversibly erodedby
the assimilation of aboriginal peoples into western culture and by the failure o f elders to pass on the
traditional knowledge to younger generations. Indeed, TEK i s indanger of disappearing not only
under influence of global processesofrapid change, but also becausethe infrastructure and



                                                  63

capacity for indigenous peoples themselves to document, protect, and disseminate their knowledge
are lacking, especially indeveloping countries.'

This is not to say that informationonTEK is not available; indeed, the number of "indigenous
knowledge centers", and the extent of global, regional and national networking, has grown
dramatically since the 1990s. Other regionalactivitieshave collected, linked, and analyzed existing
regional data on indigenous peoples and biodiversity through creation o f integrated databases,
generally inmap format, covering indigenous territories, and combining data on biodiversity,
socioeconomic conditions, demographic data, and the like for use inpolicy makingand research.
At the local level, indigenous communities are increasingly undertakinginformation collection
through "ethnocartography". These community mapping projects are being usedfor arange of
purposes, including to demarcate and protect territorial boundaries and gain recognition of land
rights, conserve andreinforce local and traditional knowledge about resources, improvecommunity
resource management,raise and mobilize local awarenessof environmentalissues, increase local
capacities to deal with external agencies, and further collaborationwith conservation groups.

The issue of documenting traditional knowledge, however, raises a number of fundamental
questions that needto be addressed, about data ownership, authorization, quality control and
interpretation. Many, ifnot most, existing databases relatedto traditional knowledge are created
and maintainedby non-indigenous groups, who while they are putting this information out inthe
public domain are at the same time under current regimes recognized as the "owners" ofthis
informationby virtue o f their compiling the database. Storing informationontraditional concepts
and uses of biodiversity can potentially aid inthe retention of traditional knowledge. But once
stored, how can knowledge beprotected from use and exploitationwithout informed consent?I s it
coherent to argue that westem scientific knowledge is apublic good, while at the same time
providing special protection to TEK as a cultural property or secret?How to develop coherent
system of group rights?'

Main IssuesRelated to IABIN

IntellectualProperty Rights.The Convention on Biological Diversity recognizes the central role of
indigenous and local communities ineffective in situ biodiversity conservation, and calls for wider
use and applicationo f traditional knowledge, innovations, andpractices. But the CBD does this
without providing for the development of appropriate mechanisms for protectionand equitable
benefit sharing (insofar as Parties to the CBD are essentially just encouraged to carry out this
obligation to the degree possible, subject to national legislation).

While indigenous peoples and representativesrecognize the potential that exists for the wider
application of their traditional knowledge and resources, they are concerned that existing systems
of intellectual property rights are inadequateto guaranteeequity andprotection. Many argue that
existing IPRsystems undermine the essence of traditional knowledge insofar as they arebasedon
the concept ofprivate ownership and individual invention andthus are inherentlyat odds with
many indigenous cultures, whichtend to emphasizecollective creationand ownership of
knowledge. Finally, there i s concem that IPRsystems facilitate the appropriationof traditional
knowledge for commercial use without providing for fair benefit har ring.^

Thus, one ofthe mainissuesrelatedto the IABINproject emerging from this larger debateis that
of the need to define adequateIPRpolicies and guidelines to protect TEK andother biodiversity
relatedinformation generatedby indigenous and local communities from inappropriate claim or
misuse. Also inneed of clarification are certain structural issues relatedto data formats and
metadata standards to facilitate the eventual inclusion of TEK into the network.


                                                  64

Capacitvbuilding. Indigenous peoples recognize that to effectively communicate their goals andto
participate indecisionmakingon biodiversity and sustainabledevelopment activities, training and
technical support i s important. This support, however, should be basedon collaboration and mutual
exchange which draws on indigenous knowledge of the environment, as well as indigenous
decisionmaking structures. Thus, another major issue related to IABINi s that of the need for
capacity buildingand support bothfor indigenous peoples to develop their own biodiversity related
networks, and to access scientific data and technologies. One of the mainprerequisites for the
process of collecting, applying, and disseminating TEK and other biodiversityrelatedinformation
i s the full participationof the local people involved. Capacity buildingi s a key issue inthis regard,
andvital iftraditional knowledge systems areto receive active local support neededto sustain
them. Indigenousand local communities will be able to "own" and manage their TEK and
biodiversity relatednetworks only to the extent to which they are able to own and managethe
relevant information technologies neededto record, validate, disseminate, and protect the data.

IABINandIndigenousPeoples

Inlightofthe above, the following activitieswillbe includedinthe IABINproject designto
facilitate indigenous peoples' participationinthe project and share inits national and regional
benefits.

Capacitybuilding for indigenous and local communities. As noted above, capacity buildingi s key
to enablingindigenous and local communitiesto manage their TEK andbiodiversity information.
Equitable access to existing scientific information and technologies i s another vital aspect of this
issue. The project would therefore aim to provide equitable access to capacity buildingthrough the
six thematic networks under Component 1, and the IABINContent DevelopmentProgramunder
Component 2, to key indigenous TEK andbiodiversity users and providers. Inaddition,
Component 4.2 will support the following assessment activitiesrelatedto capacity buildingto
informthe implementationof training activities under Components 1and 2, and to support
establishment of collaborative partnerships with indigenous groups involved inthe generation and
dissemination o fTEK and other biodiversity information: (i)   preparation o f a survey andneeds
assessment to determine existing indigenous TEK and biodiversityproviders andusers, their
training needs, information gaps, existing or plannedinfrastructure, and the like throughout the
region; and (ii)  preparation of a capacity buildingstrategy for indigenous TEKhiodiversity
providers and users through the thematic networks and content development program.

The IAl3INproject will also includeactivities relatedto the development ofpolicy and guidelines
for dealingwith the eventual inclusion of TEK information inthe network, including addressing
oversight for TEK that mightbe conveyed through the network, as well as issuesrelatedto the
clarification and definition o f appropriate metadata standards for TEK inclusion. To this end, under
Component 4.2, a TOR and analysis would be preparedon the current parameters of the indigenous
IPRissue asrelatedto IABIN,the development o fappropriate metadatastandardsandprotocols,
andrecommendations onproposed policy and guidelinesfor inclusion o fTEK inthe IABIN
network.




                                                    65

 `Catherine M.Marquette, Indigenous Peoples andBiodiversity in LatinAmerica: A Survey of Current
Information. UnpublishedWorld Bank report, 1996.

2 World Resources Institute, et al., GlobalBiodiversity Strategy: Policy Makers 'Guide.Baltimore: WRI
Publications, 1992.

  Clearing-House Mechanism, CBD website, www.biodiv.org/chm.

4 Martha Johnson, "Research on Traditional Environmental Knowledge: Its Development and Its Role," in
 Capturing TraditionalEnvironmental Knowledge, M.Johnson, Editor, International Development Research
Centre, 1992.

  DarrellAddison Posey, Provisions and Mechanisms of the Convention on Biological Diversityfor Access to
 Traditional Technologies and Bene$t Sharingfor Indigenous and Local Communities Embodying Traditional
Lfestyles. Oxford, UK:OCEES Research PaperNo. 6, 1996.

6 Francisco Grifo, et al, "The Origins o f PrescriptionDrugs," inBiodiversity and Human Health 131.
Francisco Grifo and JoshuaRosenthal, Eds., Washington, DC: IslandPress, 1997.

7 Johnson, op. cit.

8 Preston Hardison, International Conservation Networking System (ICONS) Project, pers. comm.

9 DavidDownes, Using Intellectual Property as a Tool to Protect TraditionalKnowledge: Recommendations
for Next Steps. Center for International Environmental Law Discussion Paper, 1997. Cited inMarquette, op
cit.




                                                       66

    Annex 10: Review of Key Bilateral and Multilateral Programsand Initiatives in
                                BiodiversityInformation Sharing
   LATIN AMERICA: Buildingthe Inter-AmericanBiodiversity Information Network
                                                (IABIN)

1       INTRODUCTION

1.1     Purpose
The purpose ofthis annex is to providethe context within which IABINis beingbuiltandwill
participate. It defines the scope and extent of "biodiversity information" and the intended role of
IABIN,and an overview ofthe range ofinternationalinformationnetworks andprocessescurrently
sharing biodiversity information.


1.2     Scope of "Biodiversity Information"
The term "biodiversity information" is difficult to define ina global context, for there isno
consistent and acceptedmeaning. Various views as to the scope and meaninghave evolved from
different sectors of the environmental science community, andthree differingmajor views have
developed, as follows:
Firstview Biodiversitymeanstaxonomy: The taxonomic community hasinterpreted the
           -
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) as support andjustification for increased scientific
research intheir specific field. Hence the apparent view that "biodiversity information" equals
taxonomy, even though this scientific endeavorprovides only a partial picture, and i s only one of
many classes of information important to the conservation o fbiodiversity. This has resultedin
misleadingnames for institutions such as the Global Biodiversity InformationFacility, which in
fact, concentrates on scientific issues intaxonomy (naming and relationships) and on specimen
collections inmuseumsand herbaria.
Second view - Biodiversity information means species-relatedinformation: This view of the scope
extends from taxonomy and museumspecimensto species observational data -e.g. distribution
andpopulations of species.This implies informationexchange on the occurrence and movement of
species, their protection status, and natural habitat requirements.
It shouldbe noted that the NorthAmerican Biodiversity InformationNetwork ("IN)             has to date
operated from a completely species-centric viewpoint, with a particular emphasis on linkage o f
museumsregarding specimendata, similar to GBIF.This representsonly a smallproportion ofthe
biodiversity information data for which improved access and harmonizationi s needed inorder to
support decision-making.
Thirdview - Biodiversity information hasbroadecological scope: Biodiversity informationas
impliedbythe ConventiononBiological Diversity extends beyondspecies-centric data, to include
biodiversity management and ecosystems information-that would include protected areas,
habitats, ecosystem condition and monitoring, conservation strategies and methodologies,
population dynamics, actions towards conservation (conventions, regulations, actionplans), and so
on. The Convention also encompasses informationrelatedto socio-economic considerations and
concepts such as "equitable sharing of benefits" and "sustainable development".
The objectives for IABINclearly indicate that the project's vision falls within the thirdview
described above. This would then encompassa number of major categories as follows:




                                                   67

    Taxonomic Information

    0   Taxonomic reference systems and registries;
    0   Speciesnomenclature and synonymy;
    0   Speciesidentification; and
    0   Museum, herbarium, andbotanic garden specimens.

    SpeciesInformation

    0   Species distribution;
    0   Speciespopulation and dynamics;
    0   Conservation status;
    0   Threats;
    0   Behavior and habitats;
    0   Speciesconservation activities (in situ and ex situ); and
    0   Species "hot-spots".
    Protected areas

    0   Location and distribution;
    0   Purpose;
    0   Protectionstatus, international and national;
    0   Management;
    0   Relationship to species; and
    0   Ecosystemprotection.
    Ecosystems

    0   Characteristics;
    0   Distribution and dynamics;
    0   Threats;
    0   Status and condition;
    0   Long term monitoring; and
    0   Relationship to species.

    Responses

    0   Conventions and treaties;
    0   Legislationandregulation;
    0   Strategiesand policies; and
    0   Action plans and projects.


These five major categoriesprovide the core information requiredfor effective decision-makingon
the range of topics identified inthe MINobjectives. Interms o f circumscribingthe scope of
"biodiversity information", it i s important to note that this rather broad definition doesNOT extend
as widely as "environmental information" -i.e., does not encompass information onpollution
loads, renewable and non-renewable resource extractionand utilization, and many other factors
normally considered part of State-of-the-Environment reporting.
Thus, the scope of "Biodiversity Information" includes biological informationrelatedto the five
categories above, but excludes pollution and resource extractioninformation. That is, we see
IABINas anetwork for the exchange ofbiodiversity information (broadly defined) butnot an
Inter-American Environmental InformationNetwork.




                                                   68

 2        KEYINTERNATIONAL PROGRAMMES
 2.1      Overview
 A recent study ofinternational information-sharing networks that provide support to European
 decision-makers (Rationalization of InternationalNature Conservation Information Systems-
 RINCIS) identified some 289 information sources andnetworks in 10 major categories. A further
 66 programs or initiatives aimedat harmonizingthese networks also came to light.The following
 table shows the distributionby category of infomationnetworks identified inthe RINCIS Study.


  Category                                                               Networks         Harmonization
                                                                                          Initiatives
  1- Convention and Treaty Information Sources                           21               17
  2 - Information on Protected Sites                                     27               5
  3 - Developmentprojects and donor information                          18               3
  4 - Clearing-House Mechanisms & Integrated Exchange Networks 29                         4
  5 - EnvironmentalLaw Information                                       14                1
I 6 - Global and Regional LongTermEcological Monitoring                 I24               1 5           I
  7 - Taxonomic Reference Information                                    55                12
  8 - Species Status Information                                         34               7
  9 - Policy and Strategy Information                                    38               0
  10 - European Nature Conservation Information                           29               12


 Ifonewere to addthe regional andsub-regional networks, and sourcesmoreparticularto the
 Americas, these numbers would further increase. Some of these are o f long standing, while many
 others have developed inrecent years, responding to calls for increased information-sharing for
 decision-makers, for instance from Agenda 21, Chapter 41.
 There is considerable evidence of overlap and lack ofharmonizationamongst these existing
 networks. Many claims o f these networks ("definitive", "complete", "authoritative", "global", etc.)
 are exaggerated, and reflect more the ultimate good intentions rather than the current reality. Many
 have no consistent guaranteedon-going source of funding. Further, inspite o f the apparent
 proliferation of networks, significant information gaps exist as well. One particular area inwhich
 information is sparse and poorly coordinated i s inlong term monitoring o f ecosystems, and
 consequentindicators that would assist decision-makers to assesswhether policies and actions are
 effective.
 It is inthismaelstromofrapidly proliferating, overlappingand confusingbiodiversity information
 networks that IAI3INmust finda useful niche that contributes non-redundantlyto the whole rather
 than adding confusion.
 Inthe followingsections, someofthe most significantinternationalprograms andinitiativeswith
 whichWINshould co-ordinate areprofiled, and the acronyms explained. Ofthe global systems,
 GBIF,UNEP.Net, UNEP-WCMC, The CBD Clearing-House Mechanism, the Global Invasive
 SpeciesProgramme, The MillenniumBiodiversity Assessment, BioNET, and Birdlife



                                                   69

International, are the most relevant. Ina regional context, Natureserve, CONABIO-REMIB, INBio
(Costa Rica), CRIA (Brazil), and NABINare o f relevance.


2.2     Key Global Programs
2.2.1   Global Biodiversity Information Facility
The Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF) has been established through an inter-
governmental process, with the aim of increasing access to global biodiversity data, especially
those that exist inmuseumsand herbaria. The statedmission o f GBIF i s to: "Make the world's
biodiversity data freely and universally available via the Internet". The four prioritywork program
areas that have been identified for the first three-year phase are to:

    0   create an Internet-based catalogue of knownnames o f species;
    0   digitize data on species information inmuseumsand herbaria;
        create interoperability of databases and search engines for accessingthese data; and
    0   buildcapacity innations for the implementationof GBIF.
To accomplish its goals, GBIF's activities are organized around six thematic areas:

    0   Data Access and DatabaseInteroperability;
    0   Digitization ofNatural History Collections;
    0   Electronic Catalogue o f the Names of Known Organisms;
    0   Outreach and Capacity Building;
    0    SpeciesBank; and
    0   Digital Biodiversity Literature Resources.
The purposes of these programs are:
    "1) To facilitate the full useofbiodiversity and other databasesbyestablishing aninformation
    architecture that enables interoperability and facilitates data-mining.
    2) To facilitate the expansion ofbiodiversity knowledgebyhaving legacy andnewly acquired
    primary species occurrence data digitized and dynamically accessible.
    3) To make integrated searchingpossible, as well as to facilitate the exploration and rapid
    expansion of biodiversity knowledge, by providing a complete, digital listing of the names o f
    all known organisms.
    4) To bridgebiodiversity information technology `digital divides' through training and
    capacity buildingto ensure that people inevery country have access to and can easily and
    freely use the world's biodiversity information.

    5) To provide, inreal time, a complete compendium of knowledge about particular species,
    including name and synonyms, distribution, natural history, physiology, etc., drawn from
    online information sources.
    6) To enable Web access to digitized versions of the publishedliteratureextendingback in
    time at least to Linnaeus' publications ofthe 1750s,which arethe basis of the system for
    scientific namingof organisms that i s now inuse."
GBIFworks through "Participant Nodes" innational governments andregional organizations. In
particular, it collaborates with the CBD, Species 2000, ITIS and UNEP-WCMC. The agreements
on standards and tools for information exchange o f taxonomic and specimen related data are of
particular significance to IABIN.




                                                    70

2.2.2    UNEP.Net
The UNEP.Netpartnership was initiatedby the UnitedNations Environment Programme (UNEP)
inSeptember2000, so as to bringspecialized scientific environment communitiestogether under
one umbrella. The partnership is usingthe communities' varied and vast informationresourcesto
begina new global process of developing integrated solutions to well-lmown environmental
problems, while also highlighting emergingissues by using relevant components o f their scientific
information holdings. Indoing this, UNEP i s fulfillinga part of its mandate by bringingtogether
environmental information and data-providers, and facilitating and encouraging the exchangeof
information betweenthemby usingthe most current Intemet technologies.
There i s a large volume o f well-researched scientific environmental information fragmented ina
wide variety o f institutions and Web sites, andthis hasmade it difficultto filter for relevant
information requiredfor solvingreal-world environmental problems. The integrated solutions on
the UNEP.Net site compile information from differentscientific institutions to develop
comprehensive solutions to specific environmental challenges. Environmentalresearch and
localizedenvironmentalsolutions and best practices inmany countries have also gone
unrecognized, and three benefits that will be realized by this environment network are: provision of
the forum for scientific technical peer review, provision of insights on environmentalissues to the
global community, and the exchange of ideas.
UNEP.Net i s a decentralized and distributedsystem, which allows the integrated applications to
query and generatereports from remote environmental databases and servers. Thisarchitecture
enables the contributing publishers to continue to upgrade their systems andupdate their
information holdings locally, with the benefits being realizeddirectly by the partnership. In
negotiatingcontributionswith various partners, UNEP maintains respect for intellectual property,
butencouragesitspartners to exchangeandmake their information anddata available free of
charge. The site also hosts independent specialized solutions and informatioddata o f its publishers,
developed to address specialized environmental issues and concerns. The dynamic and integrated
applications can be accessedby specialized software and toolluts provided through the site, or
directlywith a Web browser, inwhich case less functionality is exposed to the user. For instance,
downloading a copy o f the freely distributedArcExplorer andusingit to overlay maps, etc. allows
extensive manipulation of the map-based applications.
One of the major goals o fUNEP.Net was to serve to integrate a numbero f distinct UNEP
information services, notably Infoterra and the GRID facilities. Since its inception, UNEP.Net has
beenresponsible for the establishment o f a number of interactivethematic portals (for instance at
GRID-Arendal) and provides a technology base for map-based server applications providing
ecosystemand biodiversity information query and dissemination.
Plans for expansion of UNEP.Net are currently underreview and its future status i s uncertain.
2.2.3   UNEP-WCMC
UNEP-WCMC is the biodiversity assessment, policy support, and information delivery centre for
the UnitedNations EnvironmentProgramme (UNEP). This role is significant becauseUNEP is the
leadingglobal environmental authority: it sets the global environmental agenda andpromotes
coherent implementationo f the environmental dimensions of sustainable development withinthe
UnitedNations system. Serving as an authoritative advocate for the global environment, UNEPis
mandatedby governments through its Goveming Council. The Centre i s specifically mandated:

    0   to provide data and information of the highest quality and accessibility and interoperability,
        inco-operation with the Convention on Biological Diversity and consistent with the need
        to monitor progress towards meeting biodiversity-related objectives set by the Plan of
        Implementation o f the World Summit on Sustainable Development;


                                                  71

    0    to establish a network of collaborating centers in developing countries to co-operate with
         the Centre and to assist them inundertakmg relevant parts o f their work program; and
         to strengthen the World Database on Protected Areas, including linking it with other
         databases on biodiversity and ecology; establishment of a global consortium; and the
         strengthening of the relationship between the UnitedNations Environment Programme and
         the World Conservation Union on global protected area issues through a specific
         memorandumof understanding.
Infulfillingitsrole, theCentrerelieson:

    0    its strong scientific base;
    0    powerful partnerships `on the ground'; and
    0    the analytical skills and experience to add value, by preparing and presenting policy-
         relevant data to appropriate audiences.

UNEP-WCMC has three key objectives:

    0    To analyze the state of global biodiversity, assess trends, and provide early warning of
         emerging threats insupport of internationalco-operation andaction;
    0    To support the development and implementation of international agreements and programs
         that promote sustainablebiodiversity conservation; and
    0    To support international action by providing expertise, tools, techniques, and information
         for public awareness, education, capacity-building, and cross-sectoral co-operation.
For almost twenty-five years, UNEP-WCMC has provided information onthe living world,
including ecosystems, protected areas, and threatened species.With collaborators and partners
around the world, the Centre has built and publisheddatabases on the world's most important
ecosystemsintropical, temperate and polar regions, covering bothland and seas. These databases
contain information on more than 210,000 protected species and 100,000 protected areas. The
Centre's heritage has ledto the legacy o f a complex "web of information systems" that now needs
to be basedon a more coherent and robust information and communications infrastructure to
enable future growth as part of the United Nations, and the development o f effective access for
decision-makers worldwide.
The center hastherefore launchedProjectProteus, amajor initiative to integrate and enhancethe
delivery capacity of the UNEP-WCMC information holdings. Proteus has as one of its principal
objectives:
"To create a comprehensive knowledgebase on global biodiversity, able to support national and
internationalpolicy development and decision making."

The Proteus approach includes:

    0    Linking and networking of existing databases internally and externally, rather than a
         disjointed collection of separate databases;
    0    Providing facilitated access to narrative style assessments and atlases on ecosystems, as
         well as the detailed quantitative information that lies behindthem;
    0    Interoperabilitywith partners and decentralization through "federated" information systems
        -inawaythatistransparenttousers;and
    0    A total integrated view o f information holdings, with all-encompassing quality
        management.
Insummary, theproject seeks to develop aquality controlledknowledgemanagement systemthat
is:

    0    open and accessible (inter-operable with other systems);


                                                  72

     e   extendable and scalable;
     e   consistent and integrated;
          documented and accessible (to people); and
     e    sustainable over the long term.
One o fthe mainwork elements requiredis to integrate informationmanagement within UNEP-
WCMC so as to increaseaccess to information, ensure continued future access, and to increase
cost-effectiveness of services. At the same time, it i s necessaryto buildpartnerships and external
networks, enhancethe meansby which external sources of information can be efficiently accessed,
and finally, to develop computer-based tools to provide accessto information resources throughthe
Internet.
ProjectProteus i s ajoint venture with private sector and inter-governmental partners. It is currently
inits secondyear andis scheduledfor completionin2007.
2.2.4    The CBD Clearing-House Mechanism
The statedmission ofthe Clearing-House Mechanism (CHM) ofthe Convention onBiological
Diversity(CBD) is to:

     e   "Promote and facilitate technical and scientific co-operation, within andbetweencountries;

     e   Develop a global mechanism for exchanging and integratinginformation on biodiversity;
     and

     e   Develop the necessaryhuman and technological network"
The Clearing-House i s coordinated by the Executive Secretary o f the CBD, and overseen and
guidedby an InformalAdvisory Committee set upby the Partiesto the Convention. The committee
works ina transparent and co-operative manner to promote awarenesso f the multiple needs and
concerns facing various communities, countries, andregions. Inaddition, a network o f national
focal points for the mechanismhas beenestablished to address matters relating to technical and
scientific co-operation. The Parties have recently emphasizedthe needto strengthen the role o f
these focal points.
The CHM's first priority i s to ensure universal access to the Convention's official records. The
texts of the Conventionand the CartagenaProtocol onBiosafety, lists of signatories andParties,
and officialreports and documents have been made available through the Convention's website, on
CD-ROM, and inpaper form. Since then, the range o f available infomationhas been greatly
expanded.Users can now readily access case studies, national and other reports, and initiatives and
programs such as the Global Taxonomy Initiative and those on sustainable tourism and traditional
knowledge. Technical and scientific expertise i s promoted through aroster o f government-
nominatedexperts inrelevant fields.
The Clearing-House also seeks to increase public awarenesso f Conventionprograms and issues. It
i s establishing an Internet-based systemto facilitate greater collaboration among countries through
education and training projects, research co-operation, fundingopportunities, access to andtransfer
of technology, and repatriation of information. Expertsare being linkedto facilitate joint work
programs. For example, the C H M works with the Global Invasive Species Programme (GISP) and
withthe Convention's scientific body to develop ajoint scientific initiative on invasive alien
species.The Clearing-House also strives to link the richhumanresources o f developing countries
with cutting-edge scientific initiatives indeveloped countries, to create a mutually supportive and
beneficial approachto problem solving.
Still another initiative i s the creation o f a section dedicated to the Biosafety Clearing-House to
support the Cartagena Protocol. This will enable the CHM to facilitate the exchange of scientific,



                                                      73

technical, environmentaland legal information, and experiencerelating to livingmodified
organisms (LMOs).

The Secretariat o fthe Convention is promotingthe Clearing-House and its goals through
workshops addressingthe scientific and technical informationneeds o f developing countries. These
workshops give priority to issuesidentifiedby the countries themselves, such as:

    0    assessing national capacities for implementingthe Convention;
    0    improving access to new informationtechnologies and expertise; and
    0    strengthening public education and awareness.

Key characteristics of the CHM are:

    0   Compatible with differentlevels ofnationalcapacity;
    0   Needs-driven;
    0    Structurally decentralized;
    0   Provides access to information;
    0    Supports decision-making;
        Has no vested interest incontrolling the expertise or information; and
    0   Created for the mutualbenefit of all participants.
An important associateddevelopment is the "CBD ControlledVocabulary" that providesa
consistent basis for searching acrossbiodiversity information holdings.
2.2.5    Global Invasive SpeciesProgramme
The Global Invasive SpeciesProgramme (GISP) was established in 1997to address global threats
causedby Invasive Alien Species (IAS), and to provide support to the implementation of Article
8(h) of the Convention on Biological Diversity. Keypartners duringthe initial GISP years, referred
to as GISP Phase I, were the Scientific Committee on Problems of the Environment (SCOPE),
CAB International(CABI) and the World Conservation Union (IUCN), partly fundedby the
UnitedNations Environment Programme (UNEP).
GISP Phase Ilargely relied on the voluntary contributions from a substantial group o f scientists,
lawyers, andmanagers from all parts of the world. Phase I1was envisaged as a contributory
Partnership Network of organizations and programs from around the world, with an interest inI A S
issues. Buildingon this partnership approach, GISP i s continuously lookingat innovative ways of
improving co-operation with their existing and new partners inthe I A S world. The aim i s to
minimize, and where possible eliminate, any form of duplication, whilst maximizing the
effectiveness ofjoint programs and promoting the sharing ofbest-practice information. GISP i s in
essence an enabling body, focusing on effective information exchange andnetworking
mechanisms.
To this end, the GISP Secretariat has established a website which will become part of the Clearing-
House Mechanism, for all IAS information that relates to the ConventiononBiological Diversity.
The GISP mission is "to conserve biodiversity and sustain humanlivelihoods byminimizingthe
spread and impact o f invasive alien species."
To this end, GISP seeks to:

    0    improve the scientific basis for decision-malung on invasive species;
    0    develop capacities to employ early warning, rapid assessment, and response systems;
    0    enhancethe ability to manage invasive species;
    0   reduce the economic impacts of invasive species and control methods;
    0    develop better riskassessment methods; and



                                                  74

     0   strengthen international agreements.
Inaddition, GISP strives to:

     0   develop public education about invasive species;
     0   improve understanding of the ecology of invasive species;
     0   examine legal and institutional frameworks for controlling invasive species;
     0   develop new codes of conduct for the movement of species; and
     0   design new tools for quantifying the impact of invasive species.
Since 1997, the demand for GISP's productive, multi-disciplinary approach has grown
dramatically, necessitating its evolution into a programthat openly engages the expertise and
capacity of an even wider variety of stakeholders.At the March 2001 meeting of the Convention on
BiologicalDiversity's (CBD) Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and TechnologicalAdvice
(SBSTTA), GISP releaseda Callto Action, invitingall stakeholdersto become members o f a
"GISP Partnership Network". More than 50 governments, as well as numerous industries, scientific
institutes, non-governmental organizations, and intergovernmental organizations have signed the
Call to Action, making GISP a truly co-operative program o f global scale.
The development of a Phase I1ImplementationPlan was initiated at the GISP Phase ISynthesis
Conference at Cape Town, South Africa in September 2000. At the meeting, representatives from
42 governments, 17 intergovernmental institutions (including key Conventions, scientific institutes
and development assistance agencies) and 17national and non-governmental organizations
providedinputto establish priorities for Phase11.GISP presentedthese priorities at the sixth
meetingof the CBD SBSTTA and incorporated feedback from the Parties and other bodies. The
Phase I1initiatives o f GISP reflect the findings and recommendations of a four-year assessment,
conducted incollaborationwith major GISP stakeholders.
GISP i s a component o f DIVERSITAS, an internationalprogramon biodiversity science. The
GISP Secretariat i s located inCape Town, South Africa.
2.2.6    The MillenniumEcosystemAssessment
The MillenniumEcosystem Assessment (MA) i s an internationalwork programdesignedto meet
the needsof decision-makers and the public for scientific informationconcerning the consequences
o f ecosystem change for human well being, and options for respondingto those changes. The MA
was launchedbyUNSecretary-General Kofi Annan inJune 2001. Itwill helpto meet the
assessment needs of the CBD, Convention to Combat Desertification, Ramsar Convention, and
Convention on Migratory Species, as well as the needs of other users inthe private sector and civil
society. Ifthe MA proves to be useful to its stakeholders, it i s anticipated that an assessment
process modeledon the MA will be repeatedevery 5-10        years, and that ecosystem assessments
will beregularly conducted at national or sub-national scales.
The MA focuses on ecosystemservices (the benefitspeople obtain from ecosystems), how changes
inecosystemserviceshaveaffected humanwell-being, andhow ecosystemchangesmay affect
people infuture decades. It also identifies response options that mightbe adopted at local, national,
or global scales to improve ecosystem management, and thereby contribute to humanwell-being
andpoverty alleviation. The specific issuesbeing addressedby the assessment have been defined
through consultation with the MA users, as follows.
The MA will:

     0       Identifypriorities for action;
     0       Provide tools for planning and management;
     0       Provide foresight concerning the consequences o f decisions affecting ecosystems;



                                                   75

    b       Identify response options to achieve human development and sustainability goals; and
    b       Help build individual and institutional capacity to undertake integrated ecosystem
            assessments and to act on their findings.
The MA synthesizes information from the scientific literature, datasets, and scientific models, and
makes use o f knowledge held by the private sector, practitioners, local communities, and
indigenous peoples. All o fthe MA findings undergo rigorous peer review.
The MA i s governed by a board comprised o f representatives o f internationalconventions, UN
agencies, scientific organizations and leaders from the private sector, civil society, and indigenous
organizations. A 13-member assessment panel o f leading social andnatural scientists oversees the
technical work o f the assessment, supported by a secretariat with offices inEurope, NorthAmerica,
Asia, and Africa, and coordinated by UNEP. More than 500 authors are involved infour expert
working groups, preparingthe global assessment, and hundreds o f others are undertakingmore
than a dozen sub-global assessments.
The MA i s a "multiscale" assessment, consisting of interlinked assessments undertaken at local,
watershed, national, regional, and global scales. The MA sub-global assessments directly meet
needs o f decision-makers at the scale at which they are undertaken, strengthen the global findings
with on-the-ground reality, and strengthenthe local findings with globalperspectives, data, and
models. Sub-global assessmentsthat have been approved or are beingplanned as components of
the MA inthe Americas include: S5o Paulo, Brazil; Coastal BritishColumbia, Canada; the
Caribbean Sea; Salar de Atacama, Chile; Colombia; the Chirripo river basin, Costa Rica; the
Vilcanota Region, Peru; Trinidad and Tobago; and the tropical forest sites of the CGIAR
Alternatives to Slash and BurnProject.
The assessment will provide a number o f output products. A report describingthe approach and
methods used inthe MA-Ecosystems and HumanWell-being: A Framework for Assessment -
was publishedin2003. The technical assessment reports producedby each of the four MA working
groups will be published in2005, along with short syntheses distilling the findings for ease o f use
by specific audiences. Eacho fthe MA sub-global assessmentswill produce additional reports to
meet the needs o f their own audiences. All printed materials will be complemented by an
infomation- and data-rich Internet site, capacity-building activities, briefings, and workshops
designed to help communicate the findings, tools, and methods to the users.
Guided by the Conceptual Framework, four Working Groups are undertaking the scientific work o f
the Millennium Assessment. These Working Groups are co-chaired by natural and social scientists
from developed and developingcountries. These eight co-chairs and four other experts comprise
the Assessment Panel, chaired by Angela Cropper and HaroldMooney. Inaddition to the four
working groups, the MA secretariat co-ordinates a set o f Engagement and Outreach activities
designed to ensure that the needs o f the users and stakeholders inthe MA are reflected inthe MA
design, and that the findings o f the MA reach their intended audience.
When completed, the MA will leave a legacy o f a baseline database supporting three global
assessments:
        The Global Conditions & Trends Assessment;
        The Global Scenarios Assessment; and
    0   The Global Responses Assessment.
A number of sub-global assessmentswill also be completed.
2.2.7   BioNET-International
BioNET-International, The Global Network for Taxonomy, i s dedicated to "supporting sustainable
development by helping developing countries to overcome the taxonomic impediment by becoming


                                                  76

self-reliant intaxonomy, Le. self-reliant inthe skills, infrastructure and technologies neededto
discover, identify, name, classify and to understandthe relationships o f all organisms."
BioNET supports the CBD Global Taxonomy Initiative, and i s particularly focused on helping
countries implement environmental conventions such as the InternationalPlant Protection
Convention. It operates through sub-regional "Locally Organized and Operated Partnerships"
(LOOPS) o f institutions indevelopingcountries, that provide a cost-effective basis for
strengthening the ability of countries to meet their taxonomic needsby sharing resources
subregionally. LOOPs are Technical Co-operation Networks (as definedby UNDP), designedto be
permanent government-owned structures, formed by intergovernmental agreementto address
national and regional taxonomic priorities identifiedby their member countries.
Principal activities include:

    0    Training;
    0    Rehabilitationand resourcing ofbiological and literature collections;
    0    Information and communications; and
    0    Introduction and applicationof appropriate new technologies.
Recently, activities inthe Americas havebeen strengthenedwith the creationo f a
MESOAMERINET tojoin the existingANDINONET (Andean countries) and CARINET
(Caribbean) LOOPs.
2.2.8    BirdLife International
By focusing onbirds, andthe sites andhabitats onwhich they depend, the BirdLife Partnership is
workmg to improve the quality o f life for birds, for other wildlife (biodiversity), and for people.
BirdLife's aims are to:

    e    prevent the extinction of any birdspecies;
    0    maintain and, where possible, improve the conservation status of all birdspecies;
         conserve and, where appropriate, improve and enlarge sites and habitats important for
    birds;
    0    help, through birds, to conserve biodiversity and to improve the quality of people's lives;
    and
    0    integrate birdconservation into sustaining people's livelihoods.
BirdLife Intemationali s a global Partnership of conservation organizations that operate inover one
hundredcountries andterritories worldwide. It has a strong Americas Division hosted inQuito,
Ecuador, that co-ordinates and facilitates activities inthe regionby supportingits Partnership and
promoting conservation action inthose countries where it does not have an officialrepresentative.
The regionalnetwork of Partners works to protectthreatened speciesandtheir habitats, identify
and protect the Important BirdAreas (BAS),educate local communities and their leaders on the
importance ofbirds, and promote the long-term sustainable use of unique ecosystems.According to
BirdLifestudies, around 4,500 ofthe world's 10,000 or so speciesofbirdsare found inthe
Americas. Roughly 650 are considered globally threatened and at riskof extinctionby 2020. Seven
of the 12territories with the highestnumber of threatened species inthe world are locatedinthe
Americas. The highest numbersoccur inBrazil (114 species) and Colombia (77 species).
The Americas Programactivities include:

    0    The Americas Sea BirdConservation Program;
    0    Important BirdAreas inthe Americas;
    0    Serra das Lontras Atlantic Forest Project, Bahia, Brazil;
    0    The World BirdFestivalinthe Americas; and


                                                   77

         Black-breasted Puffleg Conservation, Ecuador.
BirdLife has developed arelationaldatabase, known as the WorldBirdDatabase(WBDB) that
provides 120 tables covering inexcess o f 1,400 data fields. The data covers more than 10,000
species o f birds, over 8,000 ImportantBirdAreas (IBAs) and 218 Endemic BirdAreas (EBAs).To
these are added spatial data (e.g. on populationdistribution), multimedia files, other documents and
links.
For eachbirdspecies, informationheldincludes:

         characteristics;
         range (country and island distribution);
         range (map);
         populationnumbersand trends;
         occurrence inEBAs;
         occurrence inbiomes;
         habitat use (including importance and seasonal use);
         threats (including timing, scope, severity and impact);
         targets for future action;
         IUCNRedList Category;
         images;
         text accounts across a number of themes; and
         references.

Development o f the database startedin 1994, and data are being added continually. Users can
search for detailed information on species, sites and EBAs, see examples of recent analyses, and
download subsets of the database.


2.3      Key RegionalPrograms
2.3.1    Natureserve
Natureserve i s a non-profit conservation organizationthat provides scientific information and tools
to help guide effective conservation action. Natureserverepresentsan internationalnetwork of
biological inventories - known as natural heritage programs or conservation data centers   - operating
inall 50U.S. states, Canada, LatinAmerica, andthe Caribbean. They collect andmanagedetailed
local information on plants, animals, and ecosystemsand develop information products, data
management tools, and conservation services to help meet local, national, and global conservation
needs. The scientific information about species and ecosystems developed byNatureserve i s used
by all sectors of society, including conservation groups, government agencies, corporations,
academia, and the public to make informed decisions about managing naturalresources.

Key activities include:

    0        Establishing scientific standards for biological inventory and biodiversity data
             management;
    0        Developing comprehensive and current databases on at-risk species and ecological
             communities;
    0        Designing advanced biodiversity data management systems in partnership with
             information technology leaders;
    0        Makingbiodiversity information available to the public through websites, publications,
             and custom services to clients and partners; and




                                                  78

    0         Providing information products and conservation services to guide natural resource
              decision-making.
Natureserve i s a derivative of The Nature Conservancy and their management o f data about the
status and distribution of species and ecosystemsof conservation concern inthe USA.The
Natureservenetwork now includes 74 independentnaturalheritage programs and conservation
data centers throughout the Western Hemisphere.It i s headquarteredinArlington, Virginia, with
field offices infour US.locations and inCanada, andis funded by a membership organization.
Natureserve Explorer i s aregional NorthAmerican initiative designed to allow access to awide
range of information on NorthAmerican species, particularly those of conservation concern. Iti s
basedon a biodiversity data model that reflects a set of inventory and data management standards
and protocols referredto as "natural heritage methodology". Adhered to by each of the network
members, this model and the associatedstandards and protocols are encapsulatedinNatureserve's
Biotics 4 software. Biotics 4 representsthe eighthgeneration of data management software
developed by Natureserve for use by network participants. Element-referenced objects
incorporated inthe data model include informationthat relates to a species or community's identity
(including name and classification), status, general distribution, and lifehistory characteristics.
Spatial entities inthe data model include the location and bounds of a speciespopulation or
community stand, sites o f ecological, scientific, or conservation interest, and areas under protective
management.
2.3.2    CONABIO-REiMIB
The ComisihNacional para el Conocimiento y Us0 de la Biodiversidad(CONABIO) i s a Mexican
national inter-ministerial organization mainly dedicated to:

    0    Maintaining aNational System of Biodiversity Information(SNIB);
    0    Supporting projects and studies focused on the knowledge and sustainable use of
    biodiversity;
    0    Advisinggovernmental institutions and other sectors;
    0    Undertakingspecial projects; sharing the knowledge o fbiological diversity; and
    0    Supportinginternationalagreementsrelated to biodiversity.
CONABIO sponsors andhosts the Red Mundial deInformacidn sobre Biodiversidad (REMIB)
("The World Biodiversity Network"). REMIBis a computerized system of biological information
that includes databases on curatorial, taxonomic, ecological, cartographic, bibliographic, ethno-
biological information, and catalogues on naturalresources.Iti s based on an academic inter-
institutional decentralized and intemational organization, formedbyresearch and higher education
centers, bothpublic and private, that possess bothbiological collections and databanks.
Its purposes are to:

    0         Promote the exchange o f biotic information through an international network of
              databases, and to analyze and agree to joint policies on intellectual property, quality
              control and the formats for information exchange;
    0         Increase and improve accessibility and quality of this information, and maintain it up
              to date; and
    0         Offer basic knowledge o fbiodiversity to the public ingeneral.
Inits first stage, REiMIBincorporatedcollections managedand fundedbyCONABIO.
Subsequently, other intemational institutions demonstrated their interest inthe Network, thus it
changedits name to the World Biodiversity InformationNetwork, incorporatinginformationnot
only from Mexico, but also from an additional 146countries. Throughout this time, most of the
decisions on its implementation have been made on the basis o f suggestions from academic


                                                   79

personnel and curators, and membersof REMIB.This network i s govemed by a Boardof Directors
and two Executive Committees.
REMIBfunctions with institutionsthat possessdatabasesonbiodiversityandnaturalresources,
which act as nodes, and their researchersor experts are responsible for the information. The nodes
are the institutions where the biological scientific collections or other sources of original data on
biodiversity are physically located, as well as the computer workstations where the exchangeo f
data contained inthis network operates.The person incharge of the node i s the formal
representative o f the institution where the node i s located, andhisherfunction i s to hook up the
institution with REMIB, and channel the relations of the Boardo f Directors and the Academic
Committee with the institution and the curators.
The centralnode has its headquartersinCONABIO, which does not engage inscientific data
collection, but has databasesprovided by experts, which pertain to the National System of
Informationon Biodiversity (SNIB). It i s also incharge o f establishing the rules and procedures for
operating REMIB,for developing the programmingtools that allow for the connection between
nodes, and for providing the necessary technical support. Inaddition, it co-ordinates the
participationof the institutionalnodes and promotes the entry of new institutions as members of
REMIB.
Many o f the key institutions that are participating inIABINare nodes inREMIB.


2.3.3     INBio (Costa Rica)
The Costa Rican InstitutoNacional de Biodiversidad(INBio) is a non-govemmental, non-profit,
public interest organization founded in 1989. Its missioni s "To promote an improved awarenessof
the value o fbiodiversity, to achieve its conservation, and to improve the quality o fhumanlife". It
has five mainprograms:

    0     National Inventory o f Biodiversity;
                                               I




    0     InformationManagement;
    0     Biodiversity Prospecting;
    0     Biodiversity Social Outreach Program; and
    0     Conservation for Development.
INBio i s considered one o f the primeleaders inthe conservation of biodiversity inthe region, with
strategic alliances locally and intemationally, with governmental, academic, private, and
investigative sectors. They are considered leaders indeveloping public awarenesso fthe
importance o fbiodiversity and promotingbioliteracy.Ofparticular relevance is the national
inventory o fbiodiversity (and the associatedinformation systems) andthe parataxonomist program
that i s a model for public involvement inbiodiversity.
The Institutecollaborates locally andregionally, including agreementswith the University of Costa
Rica, National University,School of Agriculture o f the Tropical HumidRegion (EARTH) and the
Technological Institute o f Costa Rica (ITCR), and foreign institutions such as the University o f
Strathclyde inScotland, the Laussane Institute, and the Missouri Botanical Gardens, among many
others. It also collaborates with CONABIO, the CBD Clearing-House Mechanism, GBIF, IABIN,
and S I A M (Mesoamerican Systemof Environmental Information). INBio i s currently supportedby
a major World Bank-implementedGEF Project.
The Institute through its Inventory processhas gained considerable expertise inbiodiversity
information management. The core information management process o f INBio i s based on
capturing, processing, assembling, packaging, and disseminating information about Costa Rican




                                                    80

biodiversity. Data i s obtained frombothmuseumcollections and observations o f specimens inthe
protectedwild areas of CostaRica, as well as from other scientific institutions.
Each collected specimen i s accompanied by a basic data set indicating where, when, how and by
whom it was collected. Informationmanagementprocessesinvolve integrated connected databases
that include GIS mapping of ecosystems, and bar-code identificationfor specimens. The "ATTA"
database employs technology from Oracle de CentroamCricaand ESRI, andhas developed methods
and standardsthat may have wider application.


2.3.4    CRIA (Brazil)
The Centro de Referencia em InformaggoAmbiental (CRIA) i s aBraziliannationalagency
dedicated to the dissemination of electronic information for the scientific and technological
community. Itprovides biological information of environmental and industrial interest, with the
intentof contributing to the conservation and sustainableuse ofBrazil's biologicalresources.It
seeks to provide various sectors of society with highquality information as a basis for decision-
making.
Ithasdeveloped andisusingdistributedenvironmental informationsystems. Forexample,
"SinBiota", an Environmental Information Systemfor the State of Sao Paulo, facilitates access to
information about biodiversityby the scientific community, government and society ingeneral, in
order to contribute to the conservation and sustainableuse of the state's biological diversity. All
data generatedby state projects are integrated, systemisedand made available through SinBiota.
They have also developed "The Virtual Institute of Biodiversity" which aims to contribute to
implementation of the Convention on Biological Diversity within the State o f Sao Paulo.
Although a nationalcenter, CRIA is collaborating regionally, includingworking with the
Biodiversity ResearchCentre of Kansas Universityon the development o f "Lifemapper". Financed
byNSF(US National ScienceFoundation), thisproject is creating a large repository of geographic
distribution models for approximately 100,000 species (including Brazilian species) that are part of
the SpeciesAnalyst Network. This uses "DesktopGarp", a software package for biodiversity and
ecology researchthat allows users to predict, model, and analyze the geographic distribution of
wild species.
The Centre i s collaboratingon the IABINInvasives InformationNetwork (I3N) Project that aims
to develop a distributedand interoperable information network about the invasive species of the
Americas. Withinthe scope of the implementation of IABIN,this tool for cataloguinginformation
was developed, and i s beingtestedby, organizations in 13 countries o f the region.
CRIA also collaborates with the IntegratedTaxonomic InformationSystem (ITIS), Species 2000,
and the Global Biodiversity InformationFacility (GBIF). It is significant that CRIA frequently
organizes and hostsregional symposia and workshops relatedto biodiversity information sharing,
such as "Trends and Developments inBiodiversity Informatics Symposium: Key Innovations in
Biodiversity Informatics" heldinOctober 2002, and the "Inter-American Workshop on
EnvironmentalData Access", held on 3rd-6th March 2004.


2.3.5    NABIN
The NorthAmerican Biodiversity InformationNetwork (NABIN) i s described as "a collaborative
network ofpeople and institutions involved inthe management and use o fbiodiversity
information". NABIN'Sstated goal i s "to improve access and integration o fbiodiversity
information inNorthAmerica for better conservation decision-making".



                                                  81

Ithas beenpartly supportedbythe trilateral (Canada, USA,Mexico) Centre for Environmental
Cooperation(CEC), and funded by multiplenational sources. To date, it has particularly focused
on technical standards and protocols for the exchange of information on museumspecimensin
NorthAmerica. Inthis regard, it has been considered very successfuland The Species Analyst
(TSA), a tool for searchingand geographically mappingspecimens, is pointedto as a result-to
the extent that insome quarters, NABINand the TSA are considered synonymous. NABINi s
identified as a partner to GBIF and collaborator with the CBD CHM.
The broader objectives ofNABINinclude:

    0    To encourage and facilitate the participation of institutions in developing standardized and
         harmonized means to access and integrate biodiversity information throughout North
         America;
    0    To increase the usefulness of biodiversity information for decision making, by identifying
         sources of biodiversity information and developing means of integrating species data with
         observationaland monitoring data, and ecological information;
    0    To stimulate and catalyze projects and networks that provide for information integration
         and sharing acrossnational, regional, and global biodiversity initiatives;
    0    To provide a forum for the exchange of scientific and technical knowledge and expertise
         related to the integrationand inter-operability of biodiversity databases;
    0    To develop (and foster the development of) IT tools for improved information access,
         harmonizationand interoperability; and
    0    To promote the free exchange of biodiversity information among private, public, and
         governmental entities.
Past work towards these objectives has included:
         NABINseed-funding and facilitation has leveraged national and international fundingfor
         such initiatives as the SpeciesAnalyst (TSA), and ITIS;
         Outreach activities maintained NABIN'S presence in the biodiversity information
         community, and encouraged experts to exchange practical experiences on information
         management;
         Recommendations on the development of aNABINwebsite for information exchange;
         Information management standardshave been chosen for the web site: the FGDC-CSDGM
         international standards for maps, and the DublinCore standard for non-mapping data;
         Considerations of NABIN-assistedunification o fTSA and REMIB;
         The University of Kansas and associated researchers have developed applications in
         support o f Climate Change scenarios that affect species' ranges and habitats, using TSA;
         and
         Developed, in part with NABIN seed-funding, the Yellowstone to Yukon Conservation
         Initiative pilot application, which i s now on-line at <http//www.rockies.ca/birds>. This
         applicationi s becoming a NorthAmerican model to respondto transboundary conservation
         issues.
Plans for 2003 included the development of a Web "Portal" for NABINto provide a forum for
information sharing and development of tools, and the expansion o fthe scope o fNABINto attack
information exchange andharmonizationbarriers beyondmuseum specimens -for instance to
observational data on species o f common conservation concern, andprotectedarea data.
Restructuring the NABINAdvisory Committee with refreshedTerms o f Reference was also
planned. These plans have not yet materialized, and there i s still no Web presence for NABIN,or
widely available documentation for the "Tools" and standards previously developed. Followinga
review, the coordinating support from the CEC seems to have been reduced, and so the future o f
NABINandits future relationshipto IABINisnowunclear.


                                                  82

3         NICHE for IABIN
3.1       Overlaps and Gaps
The 13 Globaland regionalprograms profiled here, all provide elementsthat support, or purportto
support, the stated objectives of IABIN-that is, to facilitate the exchange ofbiodiversity
information between institutionswith a target audience of "decision-makers". These existing
programs overlap inboth geographic scope and subject content. UNEP.Net, the CBD Clearing-
House Mechanism, UNEP-WCMC and the MillenniumEcosystem Assessment all have a broad
sweep o f subject matter -covering all the main categories listedinSection 1.2, althoughwith
varying emphasis. For example, the CHM emphasizesnational responsesandimplementation
measures, the MA providesbroadassessments and measuresof the state, UNEP-WCMC
concentrates on protected areas and protected species, whilst UNEP.net is focused on map-based
inventories and program information. There i s clear overlap between the species-relateddata
maintainedby UNEP-WCMC and the more focused database o f BirdLife International, and
betweenthe general GBIF and more specialized BioNET, particularly with regardto taxonomy
capacity building.These programs co-operate and interlock invarious ways, but cannot be saidto
be either rationalizedor fully harmonized. The solid database structure established by BirdLife
may form a basemodel for managing species data, andthe GBIF standards and protocols for the
exchange of taxonomic data are of key consideration.
The key players inthe region offer several examples of database structures for speciesinformation
(such as that used by Natureserveand the ATTA systemo f INBio), and good examples o f regional
and sub-regional networks.
3.2       Principles for a Niche
Inhelpingto develop anappropriate "niche" for IABIN,we sought to:

e         Avoid duplication of existing global and regional exchangenetworks;
0         Avoid redundant development of database structures and tools;
e         Emphasize adoption of existing standards and protocols; and
e         Emphasize linkage with, and augmentation of, existing networks and mechanisms.
It i s clear that INBio, REMIB, and CRIA (and even NABIN)involve overlapping sets o fpartners
andparticipant countries. Many of the same institutions and individuals participate inmeetings,
and are members o f advisory and governingbodies. Amongst these institutions, there has been
significant investment and advances indatabase structures, and exchange formats andmechanisms
that shouldbe employed or advancedrather thanre-invented. IABINshould seek to buildonpast
successes and successful national and sub-regional models, and seek further convergence and
integration. An emphasis should beplacedon usingavailable technology while improving the
coverage and appropriateness of information for decision-making, rather than on advancing
technology tools. The more specific deliverables of this project will be directed at suggesting the
boundaries of such a niche, and assessingand recommendingthe standards and methods currently
successful and appropriate for the region, which can be incorporatedto ensure that IABIN
strengthens and integrates information exchange for decision-making inthe region.




                                                 83


