                                    Initial Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                  Report No: AB126


Project Name                       LATIN AMERICA-Building IABIN (Inter-American Biodiversity)
Region                             Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                             Other social services (100%)
Theme                              Biodiversity (P)
Project                            P077187
Borrower(s)                        OAS
Implementing Agency(ies)           OAS
                                   Address: 17 Street and Constitution Ave., N.W.
                                   Washington, D.C. 20006
                                   Contact Person: Richard Huber
                                   Tel: 202-458-3227        Fax: 202-458-3560          Email: Rhuber@Oas.Org
Environment Category               C (Not Required)

Date PID Prepared                  June 12, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date                November 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date                 March 26, 2004


1. Country and Sector Background
There is increasing recognition that many environmental issues are not national in character, and
addressing them requires the development of regional and global perspectives. Species migrate across
geopolitical borders. Watersheds and ecosystems frequently cut across national borders. International
travel and transportation facilitate the introduction of species in geographic areas far beyond their native
habitats, often with a negative impact. Actions taken in one country affect another country's efforts to
conserve biodiversity. To meet these challenges, the countries of the Americas need to work together to
develop integrated approaches to biodiversity conservation.

The value at a global level of the biodiversity of the Americas is undisputed. Implementing a regional
agenda on biodiversity conservation for the Western Hemisphere is a process that must be based on good
science and credible data. Decisions concerning biodiversity management must be informed by the
lessons learned from others' experiences. Recognition of potential region-wide threats begins with an
understanding of isolated data points. It is for these reasons that information-sharing is considered a
critical component of sustainable development and the conservation of biodiversity.

In the early 1990s various countries of the Americas were concerned with the need to share biodiversity
information across national borders. Several countries were establishing national biodiversity
information infrastructures to meet their obligations under the CBD, other treaty obligations, and their
own internal conservation and development objectives. Senior officials recognized that collaboration
between countries could enhance local initiatives, provide access to a greater store of information,
eliminate duplication of effort, and leverage the scarce resources available to address the information
needs of the biodiversity community. Both Agenda 21 and the CBD called for cooperation in the
production and dissemination of information needed for the conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity. Furthermore, two workshops in the early 1990s sponsored by the United Nations
Environment Program and the Brazilian government as part of the Biodiversity Information Network --
Agenda 21 (BIN21) initiative called for the implementation of a clearinghouse for biodiversity.

IABIN was officially mandated at the Summit of the Americas on Sustainable Development, held in
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia, in December 1996. Initiative 31 of the Santa Cruz Plan of Action states

                                                      2
                                                                                                           PID



that the governments of the Americas should:

    Seek to establish an Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network, primarily through the
    Internet, that will promote compatible means of collection, communication, and exchange of
    information relevant to decision-making and education on biodiversity conservation, and that builds
    upon such initiatives as the Clearing-House Mechanism provided for in the United Nations
    Convention on Biological Diversity, the Man and Biosphere Network in the Americas (MABNet
    Americas), and the Biodiversity Conservation Information System (BCIS), an initiative of nine
    programs of the World Conservation Union (IUCN) and partner organizations.

Through a regional initiative, individual countries in the Americas can share resources available for
network-building and can more effectively build partnerships among what might otherwise be isolated
national implementations. The project will seek to develop a regional consensus on network-wide
practices and ensure the interoperability within IABIN extends to the other CHM nodes worldwide, as
well as to other regional and global efforts, especially the Global Biodiversity Information Facility
(GBIF) of which IABIN is a member.


2. Objectives
By supporting the development of the Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network (IABIN), the
project development objective is to: (i) develop an Internet-based decentralized network to provide
access to scientifically credible biodiversity information currently existing in individual institutions and
agencies in the Americas, (ii) provide the tools necessary to draw knowledge from that wealth of
resources, which in turn will support sound decision-making concerning the conservation of biodiversity,
and (iii) provide a mechanism in the Americas to exchange information relevant to conservation and
sustainable use of biological diversity, thus promoting and facilitating technical and scientific
cooperations to fulfill the mandate of the Clearing-House Mechanism (CHM) of the Convention on
Biological Diversity.

The project will implement IABIN at a regional level through:

        Assessing the information needs of the biodiversity community in the region and allowing the
         setting of priorities among those needs by the IABIN Council;
        Concurring on a set of standards, protocols, tools, and methodologies that will enhance the
         ability to integrate information across the network;
        Implementing tools to allow network-wide searching and retrieval of relevant biodiversity data,
         information, and knowledge including georeferenced data, quantitative and qualitative data,
         information, and knowledge;
        Exchanging scientific expertise through collaborative projects and other efforts to build capacity
         in human and technological resources;
        Engaging and training data providers in the implementation of the network;
        Assessing the state of collections of North American specimens in Latin America and Europe
         and identifying non-electronic data of interest;
        Producing value-added information such as studies and analyses;
        Supporting the establishment and maintenance of national CHM nodes to help provide the
         clearing-house functions mandated in the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and in
         subsequent Conference of the Parties (COP) decisions;
        Digitizing relevant data held in non-electronic forms, thereby increasing the amount of
         biodiversity information accessible through the network.

The benefits are numerous. IABIN will:

                                                       3
                                                                                                          PID



       Promote access to information useful to decision makers to improve biodiversity conservation
        and in other sectors, including socio-economic spheres of interest;
       Improve regional cooperation for biodiversity management through sharing of experience and
        expertise;
       Support the development of a common biodiversity conservation agenda for the region by
        facilitating the cross-fertilization of ideas;
       Provide the capacity to address critical issues -- invasive species, migratory birds, amphibian
        declines, and the spread of diseases, among others -- at a regional level;
       Allow the identification of gaps in knowledge and new fields of interest and facilitate
        consensus-building on a research agenda to support biodiversity conservation;
       Improve the quality of biodiversity projects (both at preparation and during supervision) in the
        portfolio of the GEF, the World Bank, and other financiers;
       Provide monitoring tools for protected areas and natural habitats.



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the world's largest financier of the sustainable use and conservation of biodiversity. Over the
last decade, Bank funding for biodiversity has involved over 226 projects with about US$1.0 billion of
IBRD/IDA resources, over US$450 million of GEF funds and an additional US$1.2 billion in co-funding
from other donors, governments, NGOs, foundations and the private sector - a total Bank-managed
biodiversity portfolio of US$2.6 billion. Thus, involvement of the Bank in IABIN will not only channel
the knowledge from Bank operations into IABIN, but also contribute to the integration of future
Bank-managed biodiversity projects with IABIN.

The World Bank, along with the OAS, has traditionally played a key role in the meetings of the Summit
of the Americas (Mr. Wolfensohn attended the last Summit in Montreal). The IABIN Project represents
an interesting possibility for the Bank to support a key Summit initiative.

The Bank will also be able to bring to the project substantial parallel financing from its other projects in
the region (and from Bank-managed resources) as well as ensure a coordinating role for donor support
and inter-governmental support.

The World Bank's role is rooted in its involvement in the start-up stage of IABIN, including provision of
about US$0.5 million in support for pilot activities during the period 1999-2000. Pilot activiites included
support for the invasive species component of IABIN, access to museum collections, development of
regional metadata standards, and support for a unified taxonomic authority (Species Analyst). This
support was from Dutch trust funds and staff time of World Bank specialists (see also
http://www.worldbank.org/ca-env for details).

4. Description
The project components will be fully defined and developed during project preparation and must also be
endorsed by the IABIN Council Meeting planned for August 2003. The following is a tentative
description
of the project components (see also Annex 1).

1. Consolidate and Maintain IABIN Hub and Internet-based portal. IABIN currently exists as an
inter-governmental agreement whose only physical presence is a virtual secretariat, staffed by
contributed personnel from the OAS and USGS. Under this component, the project will consolidate an
IABIN Hub with sufficient personnel and facilities to ensure a more tangible existence of IABIN. An
IABIN portal will also be built and maintained. Together with its members and partners, the Hub will

                                                        4
                                                                                                        PID



recommend to the IABIN Council the adoption of some basic principles of data sharing and intellectual
property rights which will underpin its future operations.

The bulk of the funding for this component will come from the GEF with counterpart funds from the
OAS and perhaps other cofinanciers. Funds will cover personnel, goods, and specialized consultancies.

2. Improve Interoperability among Networked Information Sources. Under this component, the project
will develop the standards and protocols essential to ensure compatibility between diverse data sources.
To the degree that standards exist (developed by NBII or GBIF for example) they may simply be adopted
after appropriate consultation (it is expected that many important protocols will be adopted during the
preparation phase). Other standards and protocols will need to be developed. Specialized tools and
toolkits will be developed to facilitate interoperability. Of particular importance for IABIN will be the
development of interoperability standards for a Catalogue and guidelines for data standards in selected
thematic areas (e.g., specimen data, ecosystem data, protected area information, etc.).

The GEF will provide $750,000 of funds which we expect to be matched by $3 million in funds from
partners collaborating in development of standards and specialized tools.

3. Facilitate Access to and Use of Network Content. Once standards and protocols exist and are adopted
by IABIN, an effort must be made to increase access to information and increase its usability. Under this
component, the Project will develop analytical tools to search for and analyze data so as to produce
useful information. Extensive work will be undertaken with data holders to provide them training and
assistance in converting existing data to IABIN-compatible standards. Particular emphasis will be given
to development of network content in priority thematic areas.

In financial terms this is expected to be the most important component of the project with $1.5 million in
GEF funds and with very significant co-financing of $7.0 million, primarily as cofinancing from recipient
organizations. It is expected that GEF funds under the component will be disbursed largely in previously
negotiated partnerships with lead organizations who will develop thematic networks and partially as a
small competitive fund for innovative projects in content creation.

4. Implement a Communications and Partnership Strategy. Development of inter-governmental and
inter-institutional relationships is critical to IABIN. This will be done through support to two IABIN
Council meetings during the lifetime of the project, negotiation of agreements with key organizations and
initiatives, promotion of CHM national focal points and IABIN focal points, and participation in other
global and regional biodiversity informatics initatives.

This component also includes significant training activities for member countries in biological
informatics. It will be financed by $500,000 in GEF funding and about $1 million in parallel financing.

5. Ensure Sustainability. A financial sustainability strategy already exists for IABIN but will be improved
and implemented during the project execution. A key element of this strategy is the creation of a fund for
IABIN under an independent IABIN Foundation. The project proposes providing $1 million of GEF
funds as seed funding for this fund to be matched by other donors.

6. Project Administration. Project execution will be the responsibility of OAS who have indicated they
are willing to provide significant cofinancing for project administration costs.
1. Consolidate and Maintain IABIN Hub and Internet-based Portal
2. Improve Interoperability among Networked Information Sources

                                                  5
                                                                                               PID



3. Facilitate Access to and Use of Network Content
4. Implement a Communications and Partnership Stategy
5. Ensure Sustainability
6. Project Administration

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER/RECIPIENT ($0.00)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY ($5.00)
IBRD GUARANTEE ($0.00)
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY ($4.50)
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) ($4.00)
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) ($2.00)
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF BORROWING COUNTRY ($0.50)
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) ($2.00)
Total Project Cost: $18.00

6. Implementation
The estimated period of implementation is 5 years.

Implementing Agency
The IABIN Executive Committee has requested that the World Bank be the Implementing
Agency for this project.

IABIN Council and Executive Committee
IABIN operates through a membership assembly called the IABIN Council which comprises:
     national Focal Points (at present, thirty-two countries have officially designated IABIN
      Focal Points);
     representatives from approved organizations, centers, institutions or initiatives of
      hemispheric or international scope; and
     a representative of the Diplomatic host organization (OAS).

The Council meets about once per year, or as determined by the Council, and makes all decisions
regarding IABIN. The IABIN Executive Committee guides the operations of IABIN and executes
the policy decisions of the IABIN Council. The Executive Committee consists of nine voting
members, including:
     the Council Chair (presently the U.S.) and Vice-Chair (presently Jamaica);
     governmental representation elected at large (presently Antigua & Barbuda, Brazil,
      Colombia, Guatemala, Mexico, and Peru );
     non-governmental representative (presently GBIF);

Executing Agency
The OAS has been designated by the IABIN Executive Committee to be the Executing Agency
of the PDF Grant and to be the Executing Agency of a future GEF Project. The OAS will
however work under the direction and review of the Executive Committee. The OAS was
charged, at the Summit of the Americas in 1996, with following up on the Plan of Action for
IABIN. Since that time, the OAS has provided significant financing and support for IABIN,
including informal Secretariat functions. This is a good fit with OAS' mandate to respond to

                                                   6
                                                                                                 PID



member states in matters of environmental sustainability. The OAS has served as executing
agency of GEF projects since 1995 and to date has been executing agency for 13 projects
totalling $US 26.5 million of GEF resources.

IABIN Hub
In order for IABIN to operate effectively, it must have a small but dedicated support staff. The
staff will form the Hub or Secretariat for IABIN. The Hub can be located at any National Focal
Point or institution and can be relocated as required. It is not intended to become a bureaucracy.
It should be headed by an Executive Secretary and consist of perhaps two or three other staff
members.

The key functions of the Hub include:
        Maintain the IABIN portal (web site);
        Support for the Council, Executive Committee, and Technical Working Groups;
        Promote cooperation among the network's partners (e.g., meetings, workshops,
        newsletters);
        Facilitate preparation and implementation of strategic plans agreed to by the Executive
        Committee (e.g., through formation of multi-partner teams);
        Facilitate access to data (e.g., through custodianship, data access agreements, metadata,
        and standards);
        Facilitate the development of the network (e.g., access capacity, identify areas for
        restructuring or investment);
        Coordinate support group activities; and
        Provide network and user support, particularly to national focal points.

Procurement
The Organization of American States (OAS), as the designated recipient of the Grant funds in
representation of the IABIN Council, will be the executing entity for the Project and thus
responsible for compliance with Bank procurement procedures. The OAS has the necessary
infrastructure and human resources to carry out and manage its procurement in an orderly and
well established manner. It would provide support, as needed, in the procurement, legal and
financial management areas which would facilitate Project execution. The OAS has considerable
prior experience in executing World Bank-implemented GEF projects. The OAS' Environment
and Sustainable Development Unit will carry out day-to-day operations including procurement
under the direction and review of the Executive Committee. The draft Project Implementation
Plan (to be finalized by grant effectiveness) will specify applicable procedures and requirements.

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs)
Disbursements will be made on the basis of traditional Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and
Direct Withdrawal Applications (DWAs). In the case of the latter, disbursements will be made on
the basis of full documentation for all expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review
by the Bank, and contracts whose value will be raised above the prior review limits as a result of
amendments. For all other expenditures, disbursements will be made against SOEs. All
consolidated SOEs documentation will be maintained by the OAS for post-review and audit
purposes. Reimbursement requests will be sent to the Bank on a monthly basis.

                                                       7
                                                                                                           PID



Special account
A Special Account in US dollars (or some other mechanism mutually agreeable to the Bank and
the OAS) would be opened by the OAS, using its commercial bank - Bank of America. The
Authorized Allocation to the Special Account will be determined during preparation. Monthly
replenishment of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous
advance(s) as evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement
applications. Deposits into the Special Account and its replenishments, up to the Authorized
Allocation(s), will be made initially on the basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903)
accompanied by the supporting documentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook.

Audits
An external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, will be contracted by the OAS to carry out an annual
financial audit of the project as required by OP/BP 10.02. The company to be hired annually by
the OAS for auditing of the General Secretariat of the OAS, will also audit the present Project.
For this audit, the separate TOR agreed with the Bank will be applied and a separate audit report
will be furnished.

Potential Partner Organizations in Implementation
IABIN is envisioned as a distributed system in which the countries and its diverse members play
a key role in the development and maintenance of the information underlying the network, while
IABIN plays the role of a facilitator. During Phase I of the PDF Grant, potential participants in
IABIN will be identified. These include data providers in specific thematic areas (such as
Conservation Data Centers, Missouri Botanical Garden, and the Smithsonian), key national and
sub-regional initiatives (NBII, NABIN, SIAM, AndinoNET, etc.), leading national institutions
(the USGS [US], CONABIO [Mexico], etc.), key NGOs (INBio [Costa Rica], CRIA [Brazil],
NatureServe [US], Instituto Alexander von Humboldt [Colombia], etc.), and international
initiatives (GBIF, CHM, UNEP-WCMC, etc.). During Phase II, plans will be developed to
coordinate the leading institutions who are working in a specific thematic area with the data
holding institutions. IABIN will facilitate this process.


7. Sustainability

To date, IABIN has been supported by grants from the OAS, the U.S. Agency for International
Development, the World Bank, the Brazilian Government, and by in-kind contributions from nations of
the hemisphere. An increasing number of nations have committed to the development of IABIN and will
support it with in-kind contributions to varying levels according to their capacities. However, continued
development and maintenance of the network requires that a strategy for the financial sustainability of
IABIN be developed and implemented.

Financial sustainability for IABIN has two components. First, sources of recurring funding for the
operation of the hub and other periodic activities (e.g., annual IABIN Council meetings) must be
identified. Second, participating agencies and institutions must be assured of continued internal funding
for IABIN-related activities that are their in-kind contributions to the development of IABIN. IABIN
itself will not be a source of funding for projects; rather, it is expected to facilitate the fund-seeking
process by helping its members identify potential funding sources and potential partners with whom
collaborations can be formed to leverage available resources.

                                                       8
                                                                                                             PID




To begin the process of ensuring the availability of recurrent funding, the U.S. Agency for International
Development funded a study in 2001 to investigate and recommend a financial sustainability strategy for
IABIN. Interviews were conducted with IABIN Focal Points and people outside the network, an
electronic survey was sent to every Focal Point, preliminary findings were presented and feedback was
gathered at the Second IABIN Council Meeting, and the funding structures of similar organizations and
networks were analyzed. Each of twelve types of potential funding sources were evaluated for their
likelihood of success, as well as for the skills required to obtain funds from that particular source, the
level of investment required to launch the enterprise, the risks involved, the possible conflicts within the
network, and the longer term availability of this type of funding.

To provide stability to the network's operational structure, it was recommended that the funding strategy
for IABIN be a mix of activities. Because there is a very low probability of obtaining all financial
resources from a single source, the financial sustainability of IABIN will be achieved by a combination
of several strategies directed at specific types of funding sources. Initial efforts will be focused on
obtaining the funds that will allow the establishment of a secretariat and ensure a minimal level of
operations. The secretariat should include at least one full-time, trained person with the expertise to
manage the overall fund-raising campaign. The secretariat should carry out an organized fund-raising
campaign with different strategies for each particular potential funding source. Strategies include user
access fees, soliciting support from the private sector or from international NGOs, dues paid by
governments, dues paid by participating institutions, advertising, sale of value-added services, etc. The
most promising strategy to date appears to be to seek support from selected institutions and initiatives to
capitalize an IABIN endowment that will be administered by a legally established, private, non-profit
organization on behalf of IABIN. Sources of initial capital for the endowment might include funds from
the proposed GEF project, the U.S. Government and other governments, foundations interested in
biodiversity, partner organizations such as Conservation International, the Wildlife Conservation Society,
The Nature Conservancy and World Wildlife Fund, and perhaps corporate sponsorships from Microsoft,
Oracle, and other information technology companies.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In order for a network to operate effectively, it must have a small support staff dedicated to the
development of the network as recommended in a 1999 IABIN Governance Paper (at <
http://www.iabin-us.org>). The hub in a managed network is a facilitator, not controller, of the network.
It serves the collective interest that includes the stimulation of bilateral and multilateral efforts of its
network members. The details of the architecture of the IABIN network need to be developed in the
context of this managed network model.

The lessons from UNEP's Biodiversity Data Management Project (GEF) suggest that the project design
take into account limited in-country expertise, low technical capacity and weak institutional
arrangements. It is thus advisable to avoid centralized network models which resulted in some problems
for this project.

UNEP's evaluation also showed that the BDM project faced major implementation problems because of
the difficulty of getting active central government personnel to work with. In countries like Ghana, the
suitable focal persons were already overloaded with day-to-day duties. In such cases, the staff concerned
simply accepted the extra UNEP project activities but never really gave them priority, or simply
abandoned them. IABIN as a decentralized network based on voluntary web-based sharing of data using
IABIN-compatible standards does not obligatorily require participation of any given country or
institution but rather builds gradually on the participation of interested partners.

                                                   9
                                                                                            PID




9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
     Issues : No safeguard issues are triggered by this project.




10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     Douglas J. Graham
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
    Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone:
      Fax:

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
        The InfoShop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-5454
        Fax:     (202) 522-1500
        Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop


Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.

