E709
March 2003
VI. 'SAFEGUARD REVIEW PROCEDURES
1.    This section summarizes the procedures that TSKB shall apply to sub-loans to be
financed under the World Bank Special Purpose Debt Facility (SPDF) with regard to
issues regarding:
VI. 1  Environmental Impact Assessment
VI.2 Resettlement
VI.3  Projects on International Waterways
VIA   Dam Safety
VI.1 Environmental Impact Assessment
2.    All sub-loans to be financed under the World Bank Special Purpose Debt Facility
(SPDF) will be subject to an environmental and resettlement review process by TSKB
incorporating the procedures described in this section. These procedures and
requirements incorporate the Republic of Turkey's regulatory requirements for
Environmental Review (Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
published in Official Gazette No: 24777 and dated June 6th, 2002, as supplemented by
Article 10 of Environmental Act No: 2872 dated August 9th, 1983) and World Bank
policies. In addition Expropriation Law (no: 2942), Resettlement Law (no: 2510),
Foundation of General Directorate of Rural Services (no: 3203) and Involuntary
Resettlement (World Bank OP/BP 4.12) are taken into consideration.
3.    The Environmental Impact Assessment is to be carried out to determine the
possible affirmative or negative impacts of projects planned to be realized and to evaluate
the precautions to be taken in order to prevent or minimize the negative impacts which
may damage the environment by specifying the chosen site and technological alternatives
and the supervision and inspection of the implementation of projects.
4.    The current Turkish EIA Regulation classifies projects into two categories: (a)
projects which have significant potential impacts and require an EIA (see Appendix
VI.A), and (b) projects which may have significant potential impacts and require further
analysis. For the latter projects, a pre EIA report (see Appendix VI.B) is prepared by the
private sponsor and submitted to local authorities (governor) for a determination as to
whether or not a full EIA report is required (discussed in detail below). Under current
Turkish Regulations projects, which do not fall into these two categories, are not required
to take any further action with regards to the environment.
Screening
5.    Private sponsor prepares a Project File (See Appendix VI.C for format), which
includes a recommendation for the environmental screening category for the subproject,
and submits it to TSKB. The classifications for the four screening groups are given in
Annex 4. Group 1 requires EIA, Group 2 requires pre EIA report; Group 3 projects
FILE COPYu                                Page 1 of 30



require no action according to current regulations but will be treated as Group 2 projects
for the purposes of financing from the SPDF. Projects which fall under Group 4 are not
eligible for finaning from the SPDF.
6.    The Project File is then sent by the sponsor to the Ministry of Environment which
reviews the file and verifies the proposed screening group.
7.    If the project is assigned to Group 1 an EIA is required. If the project is assigned
to Group 2 a pre EIA report is prepared by the project sponsor and submitted to local
authority (governor) for a decision on either "to prepare an EIA" or "no further
environmental documentation is required". For projects assigned to Group 3, Turkish
regulations do not require any further environmental documentation. However, for
purposes of the SPDF the Ministry of Environment has agreed to subject Group 3
projects to the same procedures as Group 2 projects.
8.    Environmental assessment procedures for each of the Groups are presented
below.
GROUP 1 PROJECTS (MANDATORY EIA)
9.    Ministry of Environment (MoE) forms a committee consisting of, inter alia,
university scholars, institutions, expertise institutions, professional labor unions, NGOs,
stakeholders, etc. The first duty of the committee is to decide on the date for the initial
public consultation. At this consultation committee members, project affected groups,
and local environmental authorities have discussions taking into consideration views and
concerns of the local people in establishing the scope of the EIA (scoping).
10.   Committee sends the list of issues identified in the scoping meeting to the private
sponsor for inclusion in the EIA report.
11.   About the same time, the MoE informs the private sponsor of the required
composition of the Task Team responsible for the preparation of the EIA report.
12.   Private sponsor prepares the draft EIA report and submits to the MoE which in
turn sends a copy to the committee for their technical assessment. MoE also makes the
draft EIA report available to the public and to solicit their views (consultation).
13.   The committee upon completion of their review of the EIA and taking into
consideration any further issues identified during the public consultation makes a
decision on whether all impacts are properly assessed and adequate mitigation measures
are included. If the decision is positive, the project is approved to proceed. If the impacts
are determined to be significant and cannot be properly mitigated, a decision to stop
further processing is made.
Page 2 of 30



14.   MoE then formally adopts the committee decision and then notifies the private
sponsor and the public (disclosure).
15.   TSKB will then review the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) section of
the EIA to determine if it accurately reflects all the important issues identified in the EIA.
If TSKB is satisfied with the EMP it notifies the private sponsor. Additionally, if the
EMP includes items (e.g. monitoring) which are identified as the responsibility of local
environmental authorities, TSKB will request the private sponsor to send the EMP to
these local environmental authorities to receive their approval. EMP will be prepared by
the private sponsor and submitted to TSKB and its format is given in Annex VI.A.
16.   Upon approval of the EMP by the local authorities, TSKB will insure that the
subproject loan agreements include a commitment of the private sponsor to implement
the EMP.
GROUP 2 PROJECTS (MANDATORY Pre-EIA)
17.   The private sponsor submits his Pre-EIA report (see Appendix VI.B for Format)
to the local environmental authorities which evaluate the material for accuracy and
completeness.
18.   If the local authority is satisfied, a public consultation is conducted by the local
governor and private sponsor.
19.   After the consultation, the local authority submits the minutes of the meeting and
the Pre-EIA report to the MoE, which in turn forms a committee (smaller in composition
than the Group 1 committee) for an assessment to deternine whether or not an EIA
report is required.
20.   If the MoE decision requires the private sponsor to prepare an EIA, the
procedures subsequently followed are the same as indicated above for the Group 1
subprojects. If the MoE gives a decision that no EIA is required, no further procedures
with respect to environmental aspects are required. However even with the 'No EIA "
required decision, the MoE may still require certain measures be taken to mitigate
certain impacts. A simple EMP will be prepared by private sponsor if it is deemed
necessary by TSKB.
GROUP 3 PROJECTS (NO GOVERNMENT ACTION LEGALLY REQUIRED)
21.   Turkish environmental regulations do not require any formal intervention for
subprojects in this Group. However, for purposes of the World Bank Renewable Energy
Project, the MoE has provisionally agreed to subject Group 3 subprojects to the same
procedures as Group 2 subprojects (see above discussion). At the written request of the
PFIs and the Ministry of Energy the MoE has informally agreed to this arrangement.
Formal agreement by the MoE regarding this process is required.
Page 3 of 30



Page 4 of 30



VI.2. Resettlement
22.   Necessary steps would be undertaken by TSKB to ensure that no negative impacts
arise from land acquisition or involuntary resettlement. Specifically, EMRA shall not
provide a "Public Benefit Document" for renewable energy generation facilities that
would lead to the exercise of eminent domain and acquisition of land for any sub-project.
There are two possible conditions under which private sponsors may obtain land
title/rights to develop sub-projects:
I.    Site where the generation facilities are to be constructed belongs to private
persons
23.   In this case, the following requirements will be reflected in the Legal Agreements
between the Bank and TKSB. These requirements shall also be included in the legal
agreements that TSKB enters into with project sponsors:
(a) An agreement by the owner to transfer the title and rights to this land and/or
any intangibles related to the land to the private sponsor, will have to be made
through an agreement reached freely and certified by a notary public.
(b) All land must be purchased in the open market.
(c) Sub-project sponsors will provide notarized documents attesting to the
willing-buyer/willing-seller status of land transactions. Sub-project sponsors
will procure all land necessary for the sub-project prior to the sub-loan
application, and will submit notarized documentation that attests to the
"willing buyer - willing seller" status of land transactions.
(d) The TSKB will interview landowners to assure that the land transfer is
voluntary.
24.   The World Bank will review the first two projects prepared to ensure that the land
was procured through market mechanisms and that no involuntary resettlement is
involved.   Subsequently, the Bank would also review yearly with TSKB the
documentation for land acquisition provided by private sponsors and on a random basis
would carry out post review.
II.   Site where the generation facilities are to be constructed belongs to
Government (represented by a Ministry or Public Authority)
25.   In this case the following requirements will be reflected in the Legal Agreements
between the Bank and TSKB. These requirements shall also be included in the legal
agreements that TSKB enters into with project sponsors:
(a) Since the EMRA shall not provide a "Public Benefit Document" for
renewable energy generation facilities, the exercise of eminent domain and
acquisition of land for any sub-project is ruled out. However, transfer of
currently held public lands with title/rights to this land and/or any intangibles
Page 5 of 30



related to the land, from the government to the sub-project sponsor, may occur
under applicable law relating to transfer of public land for projects.
(b) Each Fl will conduct an assessment to verify and re-affirm that there are no
secondary claims on the Government land that have been transferred to the
sub-project sponsors.
26.   The World Bank will review the first two projects to ensure that there are no
secondary claims on Government land acquired for the project. Subsequently, the Bank
would also review yearly with TSKB the documentation for land acquisition provided by
private sponsors and on a random basis would carry out post review.
Page 6 of 30



VI. 3 Projects on International Waterways
International Waterways
27.   All sub-loans to be financed under the project will be subject to the provisions of
the World Bank Operational Policy 7.50, Projects on International Waterways (Appendix
VI.F). Under Operational Policy 7.50, other riparian countries have to be notified and
given time to express their concerns (if any), for projects which impact the flow or
quality of water in international water ways.
28.   TSKB may not finance and projects on the following three international
waterways or their tributaries.
-     Aras
-     Dicle (Tigris)
-     Firat (Euphrates)
29.   TSKB may not finance and projects on the following two international waterways
or their tributaries unless: (i) it is deemed by the World Bank to qualify for an exception
to notification requirements per provisions of OP 7.50; or (ii) the notification
requirements per OP 7.50 are followed.
-     Asi
-     Coruh
Page 7 of 30



VI.4 Dam Safety
30.   All sub-loans to be financed under the project will be subject to the provisions of
the World Bank Operational Policy 4.37 Safety of Dams (Appendix VI. G). TSKB will
screen all sub-projects to be financed under the loan, to determine whether any contain
small dams or large dams in accordance with the definitions of OP 4.37: (a) dams greater
than 15 m in height; (b) dams greater than 10 m but less than 15 m in height and having a
crest length greater than 500m, or a spillway design discharge of more than 2000 m3/s, or
having a reservoir volume of greater than 1.0 million m3; or (c) if they present special
design complexities for example, location in a zone of high seismicity, foundations that
are complex and difficult to prepare, or retention of toxic materials
31.   For sub-projects involving large dams TSKB will require the sub-borrower to:
a) appoint an independent panel of experts (the Panel) to review the
investigation, design, and construction of the dam and the start of operations;
b) prepare and implement detailed plans: a plan for construction supervision and
quality assurance, an instrumentation plan, an operation and maintenance
plan, and an emergency preparedness plan;
c) prequalify bidders for civil works involving dams and associated structures;
d) carry out periodic safety inspections of the dam after completion.
32.   For sub-projects that will rely on the performance of an existing dam or a dam
under construction (DUC) as defined in OP 4.37, TSKB will require the sub-borrower to
appoint an independent expert or experts to carry out the due diligence work on the
existing dam as defined in Paras 8 and 9 of OP 4.37. A Model Terms of Reference
(TOR) for a Dam Safety Review Panel for eligible project involving large dams has been
prepared (attached as Appendix VI.F)
33.   The Panel shall consist of three or more experts, appointed by the sub-borrower
and acceptable to TSKB and the World Bank, with expertise in the various technical
fields relevant to the safety aspects of the particular dam.. A model Terms of Reference is
included in the Operational Manual. For convenience of project sponsors, TSKB will
compile a list of specialists who are acceptable to TSKB and the World Bank. However,
individual sub-borrowers will be responsible for constitution of their own panel and are
not confined to the list of specialists compiled by the TSKB. All such panel members
will, however, be required to receive the no objection of TSKB and the World Bank.
Page 8 of 30



Appendix Vl.A
EIA REPORT FORMAT FOR GROUP I
1.TITLE PAGE
* name, address, phone and fax number of project developer
* name of the project
* name and location of project site
* name, address, phone and fax number of report developer
* preparation date of report
2. CONTENT OF REPORT
PART l: DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE OF THE PROJECT
* description, period, goal, importance and necessity of investment
* description of the physical characteristics of the whole project and the land-use
requirements during the construction and operational phases,
* general explanation of important environmental impacts of proposed project
(water, air, soil pollution, noise, vibration, light, heat, radiation etc.)
* outline of the main alternatives studied by the developer and an indication of the
main reasons for this choice of selected location,
PART Il: LOCATION OF PROJECT SITE
* information about the location, coordinate and alternatives of selected project
location
PART III: EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECT LOCATION AND
INFLUENCE AREA
Description of the aspect of the environment likely to be significantly affected by the
proposed project, including, in particular, population, fauna, flora, geologic and hydro
geologic characteristics, natural disaster conditions, soil, water, air, climatic factors,
ownership status, architectural and archeological heritage, landscape characteristics,
land use, sensitivity degree (taking into account of sensitive area which are defined in
EIA regulation), and the inter-relationship between the above factors.
PART IV: IMPORTANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PROJECT AND MITIGATION MEASURES
Description of the likely significant effects of the proposed project on the environment
resulting from(definition should cover short, medium and long term, permanent and
temporary, positive and negative impacts):
* area used for project
* the use of natural resources
* the amount of pollutant (interaction of atmospheric conditions and pollutant),
* description of problems which create pollution on the environment and how to
minimize of wastes
* description of the forecasting methods to assess the effects on the environment
* description of the measures envisaged to reduce any significant adverse effects
on the environmental (additional research should be completed about if any
Page 9 of 30



migration fish exist or not and construct a "fish pass platform" considering
compensation water if long tunnel exist for hydro project)
PART V: PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
* determination of public (citizen) likely be impacted by the project and
suggested methods to take care of public opinion in EIA studies
* other related sides to be applied for opinion
* any other information and document
PART VI: A NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY OF THE INFORMATION PROVIDED UNDER THE ABOVE
HEADINGS
Part VII: Environmental Management Plan (EMP), see attached EMP format
Notes: An indication of difficulties encountered by the developer in compiling of required
information.
Page 10 of 30



Appendix Vl.A
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT
A. MITIGATION PLAN
Cost                   Institutional Responsibility  Comments
(e.g. secondary
._________                          impacts)
Phase            Issue                 Mitigating         Install     Operate    Install     Operate
Measure
Construction
:
:
0
Operation
0
Decommissioning
Page 11 of 30



B. MONITORING PLAN
COST                Responsibility
Phase            What       Where      How         When        Why         Install  Operate   Install   Operate
parameter  is    the  is      the    is the
is to  be  parameter parameter      parameter  Is the
monitored  to     be  to       be    to be    parameter to
monitored  monitored!   monitored-  be
?   type  of  frequency  monitored
monitoring   measureof  (optional)?
monitn'na measureme
equipment?      nt or
continuous?
Baseline
Construct
Operate
Decommission
Page 12 of 30



C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. Equipment Purchases (Tabular Presentation Preferred)
List:
*  Type of equipment
*  Number of Units
*  Unit cost
*  Total Cost
*  Local or International Purchase
2. Training/Study Tours
List:
*  Type of Training (Mitigation, Monitoring, Environmental Management, Other)
*  Number of Students
Current and Future Organizational Unit in Which They Work or Current and Future
Title/Job Description
*  Duration of Training
*  Start Date/End Date (for each student)
*  Venue of Training (Domestic or Abroad)
*  Institute or Organization to Provide Training
*  Cost (Local and Foreign)
3. Consultant Services
* Type of Service
* Terms of Reference
*  Justification
*  Cost
4. Special Studies
*  Justification
* Terms of Reference
* Cost
D. SCHEDULE
Present (preferably in Chart Form) Start Dates and Finish Dates for:
* Mitigation Activities
*  Monitoring Activities
* Training Activities
This information should be on the same chart defining the overall project schedule
(Project Implementation Plan)
Page 13 of30



E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A narrative discussion supported by organizational charts detailing:
* Responsibilities for mitigation and monitoring
* Environmental information flow (reporting-from who and to who and how often)
* Decision making chain of command for environmental management (to take action,
to authorize expenditures, to shut down, etc.)
IN SHORT, HOW IS ALL THE MONITORING DATA GOING TO BE USED TO MAINTAIN SOUND
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE-WHO COLLECTS THE DATA, WHO ANALYZES IT, WHO
PREPARES REPORTS, WHO ARE THE REPORTS SENT TO AND HOW OFTEN, AND WHO DOES
THAT PERSON SEND IT TO, OR WHAT DOES HE/SHE DO WITH THE INFORMATION-WHO HAS
THE AUTHORITY TO SPEND, SHUTDOWN, CHANGE OPERATIONS ETC.
F. CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT- AFFECTED GROUPS
PROVIDE DOCUMENTATION OF THE FOLLOWING:
* DATE(S) CONSULTATION(S) WAS (WERE) HELD
* Location(s) consultation(s) was (were) held
* Who was invited
Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail number/address
(home and/or office)
* Who attended
Name, Organization or Occupation, Telephone/Fax/e-mail number/address
(home and/or office)
* Meeting Program/Schedule
* What is to be presented and by whom
* Summary Meeting Minutes (Comments, Questions and Response by Presenters)
Page 14 of 30



Appendix Vl.B
PRE-EIA REPORT FORMAT (GROUP 11 and 111)
TITLE PAGE
* Name, address, phone and fax number of project developer
* Name of the project
* Name and location of project site
* Purpose and definition of project
* Name, address, phone and fax number of report developer
* Preparation date of report
1. NON-TECHNICAL SUMMARY OF REPORT
2. Characteristics of project
The characteristics of project must be considered having regard, in particular, to:
* The size of the project and required area etc,
* The interaction with other facilities,
* The use of natural resources,
* The production of waste,
* Pollution,
* The risk of accident, having regard in particular to substances or technologies
used.
3. Location of projects
The environmental sensitivity of geographical areas likely to be affected by project must
be considered, having regard, in particular:
* The existing land use,
* The characteristics of geologic and hydro geologic and natural disaster condition
* The relative abundance, quality and regenerative capacity of natural resources in
the area
*  The evaluation of the natural environment, paying particular attention to the
sensitive area list given in the annex-V in EIA Regulation (wetlands, coastal
zones, mountain and forest area, agricultural lands, national parks, special
protection areas, densely populated area, landscape of historical, cultural or
archaeological significance, etc,)
4. Characteristics of potential impacts
The potential significant effects of projects must be considered in relation to criteria set
under 2 and 3 above, and having regard in particular:
* The extent of impact (geographical area and size of the affected population),
* The characteristics, magnitude, duration, frequency and renewably of the
impacts
* (additional research should be completed on if any migration of fish exists or not
and construction of a "fish pass platform", considering compensation water if long
tunnel exist for hydro project)
5. Alternatives of projects and location
6. Conclusions
Page 15 of 30



General evaluation will cover the important environmental impacts and comparison of
alternatives of the project and brief summary of the information provided under the
-above heading.
Page 16 of 30



Appendix VI.C
PROJECT FILE (to be completed by private sponsor)
Eligible project title:
Energy sector/Generation type
* Brief description of eligible project (nature of project, eligible project cost, physical
site[site area, location, capacity, etc],)
* The potential impacts (water, soil, air, noise, geographical area and the human and
natural environment)
Page 17 of 30



Appendix VI.D
CLASSIFICATION OF CATEGORIES
Group I
1. River based power plants at a single location, total capacity 50 MW or above
2. Small hydro with dam or reservoir which have the lake volume more than 100
million m3 or lake surface area more than 15 km2.
Group II
1. River based power plants at a single location, total capacity between 10-50 MW
2. ALL WIND ENERGY BASED ELECTRICITY GENERATION STATIONS
3. SMALL HYDRO PROJECTS WITH DAM OR RESERVOIR WHICH HAVE THE LAKE VOLUME
MORE THAN 10 MILLION M3 OR LAKE SURFACE AREA MORE THAN 1 KM2.
Group Ill
1. River based power plants single location, total capacity less than 10 MW
2. Small hydro projects with dam or reservoir which are not included Group I and 11.
Group IV
1. For hydropower stations involving water flows into neighboring countries with
which Turkey does not have water flow agreements.
2. Any other restrictions not foreseen in this report.
Page 18 of 30



Appendix VI.E
(Written agreement from MoE- to be obtained)
Page 19 of 30



Appendix VI.F
OP 7.50
I II    THE WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL MANUAL                         June 2001
Operational Policies
|These polici'es were preparedfor use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a
|complete treatment of the subject.
Projects on International Waterways
Applicability of Policy
1.    This policy applies to the following types of international waterways:
(a) any river, canal, lake, or similar body of water that forms a boundary between,
or any river or body of surface water that flows through, two or more states,
whether Bankl members or not;
(b) any tributary or other body of surface water that is a component of any
waterway described in (a) above; and
(c) any bay, gulf, strait, or channel bounded by two or more states or, if within
one state, recognized as a necessary channel of communication between the
open sea and other states-and any river flowing into such waters.
2.    This policy applies to the following types of projects:
(a) hydroelectric, irrigation, flood control, navigation, drainage, water and
sewerage, industrial, and similar projects that involve the use or potential
pollution of international waterways as described in para. 1 above; and
(b) detailed design and engineering studies of projects under para. 2(a) above,
including those to be carried out by the Bank as executing agency or in any
other capacity.
Agreements/Arrangements
3.    Projects on international waterways may affect relations between the Bank and its
borrowers and between states (whether members of the Bank or not). The Bank
recognizes that the cooperation and goodwill of riparians is essential for the efficient use
and protection of the waterway. Therefore, it attaches great importance to riparians'
making appropriate agreements or arrangements for these purposes for the entire
waterway or any part thereof. The Bank stands ready to assist riparians in achieving this
end. In cases where differences remain unresolved between the state proposing the
project (beneficiary state) and the other riparians, prior to financing the project the Bank
normally urges the beneficiary state to offer to negotiate in good faith with the other
riparians to reach appropriate agreements or arrangements.
Page 20 of 30



Notification
4.    The Bank ensures that the international aspects of a project on an international
waterway are dealt with at the earliest possible opportunity. If such a project is proposed,
the Bank requires the beneficiary state, if it has not already done so, formally to notify the
other riparians of the pro-posed project and its Project Details (see BP 7.50, para. 3). If
the prospective borrower indicates to the Bank that it does not wish to give notification,
normally the Bank itself does so. If the borrower also objects to the Bank's doing so, the
Bank discontinues processing of the project. The executive directors concerned are
informed of these developments and any further steps taken.
5.    The Bank ascertains whether the riparians have entered into agreements or
arrangements or have established any institutional framework for the international
waterway concerned. In the latter case, the Bank ascertains the scope of the institution's
activities and functions and the status of its involvement in the proposed project, bearing
in mind the possible need for notifying the institution.
6.    Following notification, if the other riparians raise objections to the proposed
project, the Bank in appropriate cases may appoint one or more independent experts to
examine the issues in accordance with BP 7.50, paras. 8-12. Should the Bank decide to
proceed with the project despite the objections of the other riparians, the Bank informs
them of its decision.
Exceptions to Notification Requirement
7.    The following exceptions are allowed to the Bank's requirement that the other
riparian states be notified of the proposed project:
(a) For any ongoing schemes, projects involving additions or alterations that
require rehabilitation, construction, or other changes that in the judgment of
the Bank
(i) will not adversely change the quality or quantity of water flows to the other
riparians; and
(ii) will not be adversely affected by the other riparians' possible water use.
This exception applies only to minor additions or alterations to the ongoing scheme; it
does not cover works and activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its
nature, or so alter or expand its scope and extent as to make it appear a new or different
scheme. In case of doubt regarding the extent to which a project meets the criteria of this
exception, the executive directors representing the riparians concerned are informed and
given at least two months to reply. Even if projects meet the criteria of this exception, the
Bank tries to secure compliance with the requirements of any agreement or arrangement
between the riparians.
Page 21 of 30



(b) Water resource surveys and feasibility studies on or involving international
waterways. However, the state proposing such activities includes in the terms
of reference for the activities an examination of any potential riparian issues.
(c) Any project that relates to a tributary of an international waterway where the
tributary runs exclusively in one state and the state is the lowest downstream
riparian, unless there is concern that the project could cause appreciable harm
to other states.
Presentation of Loans to the Executive Directors
8. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for a project on an international waterway
deals with the international aspects of the project, and states that Bank staff have
considered these aspects and are satisfied that
(a) the issues involved are covered by an appropriate agreement or arrangement
between the beneficiary state and the other riparians; or
(b) the other riparians have given a positive response to the beneficiary state or
Bank, in the form of consent, no objection, support to the project, or
confirmation that the project will not harm their interests; or
(c) in all other cases, in the assessment of Bank staff, the project will not cause
appreciable harm to the other riparians, and will not be appreciably harmed by
the other riparians' possible water use. The PAD also contains in an annex the
salient features of any objection and, where applicable, the report and
conclusions of the independent experts.
1. "Bank" includes IDA; "loans" include credits; and "project" includes all projects
financed under Bank loans or IDA credits, but does not include adjustment programs
supported under Bank loans and IDA credits; and "borrower" refers to the member
country in whose territory the project is carried out, whether or not the country is the
borrower or the guarantor.
Note: OP and BP 7.50 replace OP and BP 7.50, dated October 1994. Questions may be addressed to
the Chief Counsel, Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development and International Law.
Page 22 of 30



Appendix VI.G
OP 4.37
I| I    TIHE WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL MANUAL                       October 2001
Operational Policies
These policies were preparedfor use by World Bank staff and are not necessarily a
complete treatment of the subject.
Safety of Dams
Note: OP and BP 4.37 replace the versions dated September 1996. Other Bank
policies that may apply to projects that involve dams include the following: OP/BP
4.01, EnvironmentalAssessment; OP/BP 4.04, Natural Habitats; OP 4.11, Cultural
Property; OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples; O    Involuntary Resettlement; and
OP/BP 7.50, Projects on International Waterways. Questions on dam safety should be
addressed to the Director, Rural Development Department (RDV).
1. For the life of any dam, the ownerl is responsible for ensuring that appropriate
measures are taken and sufficient resources provided for the safety of the dam,
irrespective of its funding sources or construction status. Because there are serious
consequences if a dam does not function properly or fails, the Bank2 is concerned about
the safety of new dams it finances and existing dams on which a Bank-financed project is
directly dependent.
New Dams
2.    When the Bank finances a project that includes the construction of a new dam,3 it
requires that the dam be designed and its construction supervised by experienced and
competent professionals. It also requires that the borrower4 adopt and implement certain
dam safety measures for the design, bid tendering, construction, operation, and
maintenance of the dam and associated works.
3. The Bank distinguishes between small and large dams.
a) Small dams are normally less than 15 meters in height. This category includes, for
example, farm ponds, local silt retention dams, and low embankment tanks.
b) Large dams are 15 meters or more in height. Dams that are between 10 and 15
meters in height are treated as large dams if they present special design
complexities-for example, an unusually large flood-handling requirement,
location in a zone of high seismicity, foundations that are complex and difficult to
prepare, or retention of toxic materials.5 Dams under 10 meters in height are
Page 23 of 30



treated as large dams if they are expected to become large dams during the
operation of the facility.
4.    For small dams, generic dam safety measures designed by qualified engineers are
usually adequate. For large dams, the Bank requires
a) reviews by an independent panel of experts (the Panel) of the investigation, design,
and construction of the dam and the start of operations;
b) preparation and implementation of detailed plans: a plan for construction
supervision and quality assurance, an instrumentation plan, an operation and
maintenance plan, and an emergency preparedness plan; 6
c) prequalification of bidders during procurement and bid tendering,7 and
d) periodic safety inspections of the dam after completion.
5.    The Panel consists of three or more experts, appointed by the borrower and
acceptable to the Bank, with expertise in the various technical fields relevant to the safety
aspects of the particular dam.8 The primary purpose of the Panel is to review and advise
the borrower on matters relative to dam safety and other critical aspects of the dam, its
appurtenant structures, the catchment area, the area surrounding the reservoir, and
downstream areas. However, the borrower normally extends the Panel's composition and
terms of reference beyond dam safety to cover such areas as project formulation;
technical design; construction procedures; and, for water storage dams, associated works
such as power facilities, river diversion during construction, shiplifts, and fish ladders.
6.    The borrower contracts the services of the Panel and provides administrative
support for the Panel's activities. Beginning as early in project preparation as possible, the
borrower arranges for periodic Panel meetings and reviews, which continue through the
investigation, design, construction, and initial filling and start-up phases of the dam.9 The
borrower informs the Bank in advance of the Panel meetings, and the Bank normally
sends an observer to these meetings. After each meeting, the Panel provides the borrower
a written report of its conclusions and recommendations, signed by each participating
member; the borrower provides a copy of that report to the Bank. Following the filling of
the reservoir and start-up of the dam, the Bank reviews the Panel's findings and
recommendations. If no significant difficulties are encountered in the filling and start-up
of the dam, the borrower may disband the Panel .
Existing Dams and Dams under Construction
7.    The Bank may finance the following types of projects that do not include a new
dam but will rely on the performance of an existing dam or a dam under construction
(DUG): power stations or water supply systems that draw directly from a reservoir
controlled by an existing dam or a DUC; diversion dams or hydraulic structures
downstream from an existing dam or a DUC, where failure of the upstream dam could
cause extensive damage to or failure of the new Bank-funded structure; and irrigation or
water supply projects that will depend on the storage and operation of an existing dam or
a DUC for their supply of water and could not function if the dam failed. Projects in this
Page 24 of 30



category also include operations that require increases in the capacity of an existing dam,
or changes in the characteristics of the impounded materials, where failure of the existing
dam could cause extensive damage to or failure of the Bank-funded facilities.
8.    If such a project, as described in para. 7, involves an existing dam or DUC in the
borrower's territory, the Bank requires that the borrower arrange for one or more
independent dam specialists to (a) inspect and evaluate the safety status of the existing
dam or DUC, its appurtenances, and its performance history; (b) review and evaluate the
owner's operation and maintenance procedures; and (c) provide a written report of
findings and recommendations for any remedial work or safety-related measures
necessary to upgrade the existing dam or DUC to an acceptable standard of safety.
9.     The Bank may accept previous assessments of dam safety or recommendations of
improvements needed in the existing dam or DUC if the borrower provides evidence that
(a) an effective dam safety program is already in operation, and (b) full-level inspections
and dam safety assessments of the existing dam or DUC, which are satisfactory to the
Bank, have already been conducted and documented.
10.   Necessary additional dam safety measures or remedial work may be financed
under the proposed project. When substantial remedial work is needed, the Bank requires
that (a) the work be designed and supervised by competent professionals, and (b) the
same reports and plans as for a new Bank-financed dam (see para. 4(b)) be prepared and
implemented. For high-hazard cases involving significant and complex remedial work,
the Bank also requires that a panel of independent experts be employed on the same basis
as for a new Bank-financed dam (see paras. 4(a) and 5).
11.    When the owner of the existing dam or DUC is an entity other than the borrower,
the borrower enters into agreements or arrangements providing for the measures set out
in paras. 8-10 to be undertaken by the owner.
Policy Dialogue
12.   Where appropriate, as part of policy dialogue with the country, Bank staff discuss
any measures necessary to strengthen the institutional, legislative, and regulatory frame-
works for dam safety programs in the country.
1. The owner may be a national or local government, a parastatal, a private company or a consortium of
entities. If an entity other than the one with legal title to the dam site, dam, and/or reservoir holds a license
to operate the dam, and has responsibility for its safety, the term "owner" includes such other entity.
2. "Bank" includes IDA, and "loans" mclude credits.
3. For example, a water storage dam for a hydropower, water supply, igation, flood control, or
multipurpose project; a tailings or a slimes dam for a mine project; or an ash impoundment dam for a
thermal power plant
Page 25 of 30



4. When the owner is not the borrower, the borrower ensures that the obligations of the borrower under this
OP are properly assumed by the owner under arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
5. The definition of "large dams" is based on the criteria used to compile the list of large dams in the World
Register of Dams, published by the International Commussion on Large Dams.
6. BP 4 37, Annex A, sets out the conteiit of these plans and the timetable for preparing and finalizing
them. In the dam safety practice of several counties, the operation and maintenance plan includes both the
instrumentation plan and the emergency preparedness plan as specific sections. This practice is acceptable
to the Bank, provided the relevant sections are prepared and finalized according to the timetable set out in
BP 4 37, Annex A.
7. See Guidlelines Procuremitelnt utnder 1BRD Loans and IDA .
8. The number, professional breadth, technical expertise, and experience of Panel members are appropriate
to the size, complexity, and hazard potential of the dam under consideration. For high-hazard dams, in
particular, the Panel members should be internationally known experts in their field.
9. If the Bank's involvement begms at a later stage than project preparation, the Panel is constituted as soon
as possible and reviews any aspects of the project that have already been carned out.
Page 26 of 30



Appendix VI.H
Turkey - Renewable Energy Project
[Model] Terms of Reference (TOR) for the Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP)
General
The Turkey Renewable Energy Project is assisting to finance privately developed
renewable energy projects, which include low impact hydropower projects with reservoir
areas less than [15] km2, reservoir volumes less than [100] million m3, and installed
capacities less than [50] MW - based on the Annex II limits of the Turkish
Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation.
As part of the Renewable Energy Project a Special Purpose Debt Facility (SPDF)
will be established in two financial intermediaries (FIs), specifically TSKB and TKB,
who will make sub loans to private developers [Eligible project Owner]
Eligible projects involving large dams are subject to the provisions of the World
Bank Operational Policy OP 4.37 (attached). For such projects the World Bank requires
the appointment of an independent panel of experts to review the investigation, design,
and construction of the dam and the start of operations.
These Terms of Reference outline the responsibilities of the Dam Safety Review
Panel (DSRP).
Organization and Membership
The DSRP is appointed by the sub-borrowers and shall initially contain at least
three permanent members with wide and specialized experience which collectively
covers the following fields [may vary depending on individual eligible projects]:
- Engineering Geology
- Concrete Dam Design.
- Embankment Dam Design
- Hydraulic Structures Design Layout and Operation.
- Rock Mechanics and Design of Underground Works.
- Concrete Technology
- Construction of Dams and Hydropower Facilities.
If necessary, the DSRP can be enlarged on a temporary basis by the addition of
specialists with expertise in areas such as: flood hydrology, sedimentology, seismology,
Seismic-related analysis and design etc.
Page 27 of 30



A Chairman will be appointed by the sub-borrower to co-ordinate
communications of the DSRP, to call and chair its meetings, to ensure the membership's
activity and to provide balance to its reviews and recommendations.
Composition of the DSRP, and the areas of expertise which it covers may vary
during the course of the Project as considered appropriate by the [Eligible project Owner]
in consultation with the Chairman and concurrence of the [FI] and the World Bank.
Meetings and Schedules
The DSRP will convene at regular intervals to review the status of work in
progress. Frequency of meetings, their location and timing will be adjusted to conform to
the schedule of design and construction, but the time between meetings shall not
normally exceed nine months. At each meeting the scheduled dates for the next meeting
and tentative timing for the subsequent meeting will be approximately fixed, to enable
DSRP members to arrange their individual schedules. Extraordinary meetings of the
DSRP may be called in critical situations, and services of individual members may be
solicited between meetings as considered necessary or desirable by the Owner, with
copies of their input being sent to other DSRP members.
Prior to adjournment of DSRP meetings, the DSRP will prepare and submit
written findings, conclusions, and recommendations (regular or extraordinary), signed by
all members in attendance. All reports will be submitted to [Eligible project Owner] and
through [Eligible project Owner] to [FI] and thence to the World Bank.
Scope of Reviews
The primary purpose of the Panel is to review and advise the [Eligible project
Owner] on matters relative to dam safety and other critical aspects of the dam, its
appurtenant structures, the catchment area, the area surrounding the reservoir, and
downstream areas. Specific subjects on which the DSRP are expected to comment, as
relevant to the specific eligible project, are listed below. The DSRP should also commnent
on any other matter which it perceives to be important to the successful design,
construction and operation of the projects and to the long-term safety of the dams and
appurtenances.
* Engineering Geology: Quality and sufficiency of geological investigations and
interpretation thereof, correctness of geological and hydro-geological models of
the regions, reservoir areas and dam sites; engineering implications with respect
to foundation design, stability of natural and excavated slopes; and support of
surface and underground excavations.
* Rock Mechanics/Underground Excavations: Design of surface and underground
excavations, including selection of stable slopes; appropriate shapes and
orientations for underground excavations; design of temporary and permanent
support systems and linings; and drainage of excavated areas.
Page 28 of 30



* Concrete and Embankment Dam Design: Choice of materials, analysis and design
procedures, factors of safety, provisions for earthquake, specified construction
procedures.
*  Hydraulic Structures Design: Hydraulic and structural design and specifications
for the spillways and diversion facilities.
* Flood Hydrology: Appropriateness of selection of design flood, and provisions for
extreme events.
* Concrete Technology: Application of appropriate technology for the design &
manufacture of concrete mixes
* Construction of Dams and Hydropower Facilities: With particular reference to
quality control procedures.
The DSRP will also review the various detailed plans required to be prepared in
accordance with OP4.37: the plan for construction supervision and quality assurance, the
instrumentation plan, the operation and maintenance plan, and an emergency
preparedness plan.
Report on Project Completion
Following the filling of the reservoir and start-up of the dam, the DSRP will
prepare a final report summarizing its findings on project design, construction and
preparation for operations. Based on this report, and if no significant difficulties are
encountered in the filling and start-up of the dam, the work of the DSRP with regard to
the specific eligible project would be deemed to have been successfully completed.
Page 29 of 30



This Page Left Intentionally Blank
Page 30 of 30



