Report No. PID11166
Project Name                      TURKEY-Renewable Energy Project (@)
Region                            Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                            Renewable energy (50%); Micro- and SME finance (50%)
Project ID                        P072480
Borrower(s)                       GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency
Address FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES -- TSKB AND TKB
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources [MENRI
Address: Inonu Bulvari 36, ANKARA
Contact Person: Mr. Budak Dilli, Deputy Director General
Tel: (90-312) 222 4059
Fax: (90 312) 212 6984
Email: budakd@tedas.gov.tr
Turkish Industrial Development Bank [TSKB - Turkiye
Sinai Kalkinma Bankasil
Address: Meclis Mebusan Caddesi No. 161, 80040
Findikli, ISTANBUL, Turkey
Contact Person: Mr. Orhan Beskoc, Executive
Vice-President
Tel: (90-212)-334-5007
Fax: (90-212)-334-5261
Email: beskoko@tskb.com.tr
Turkish Development Bank [TKB - Turkiye Kalkinma
Bankasil
Address: Necatibey Caddesi No.98, Bakanliklar 06100,
ANKARA, Turkey
Contact Person: Ms. Cansel Inankur, Deputy General
Manager
Tel: (90-312)-231-0062
Fax: (90-312-)-230-2394
Email: c-inankur@tkb.com.tr
Environment Category              F
Date PID Prepared                 March 13, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date               March 14, 2003
Bank Approval Date                June 19, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
There are three main issues facing the power sector in Turkey:
First -- to reform the sector in order to shift to a sustainable private
investment approach where commercial risk is borne by the private
investor.     There have been several approaches employed over the last two
decades to restructure the sector and obtain private investment.      While
private investment and ownership of generation assets has increased



sharply, these arrangements have substantially increased government
liabilities by transferring much of the commercial risk for these plants
to the government. Four different arrangements were used in the past to
attract private investors. These are the build operate transfer (BOT)
model, the Build Own Operate (BOO) model, the auto-producer model and the
Transfer of Operating Rights (TOOR) model. The first three models (BOT,
BOO, auto-producer) have been used to obtain private investment in new
power plants. The TOOR model has been used to try and concession existing
generating assets and distribution companies to private investors. The
BOT and BOO approaches attracted substantial new investment in power
plants -- however, the energy prices from BOT plants are extremely high,
and both approaches have created huge contingent public obligations with
the government covering the market risk through take-or-pay contracts. In
this respect the Turkish experience is similar to the IPP programs in a
number of South and East Asian countries.    The auto-producer model, which
is essentially a form of self-generation employed by industries who also
sell surplus energy to the national grid, is in many respects the most
successful as it has created a large amount of capacity without any
associated public liabilities. The TOOR approach, which did get a lot of
private investor interest, has been recently largely cancelled by the
Government owing to the implied liabilities and the constraints it would
impose on fundamental reform of the sector.
In response to the need for sustainable private involvement in the sector,
the Government has embarked on a far-reaching reform program that aims to
establish a competitive market structure with separate generation and
distribution firms that will gradually be privatized. These reforms are
progressing in accordance with the principles and time frames defined in
the Electricity Market Law (Law 4628) which was enacted in February,
2001. A separate regulatory institution, the Energy Market Regulatory
Authority (EMRA) has also been created per the provisions of the
Electricity Market Law.
Second -- to overcome sectoral implementation challenges to a smooth
reform transition.   Although important steps have been taken to advance
fundamental reforms in the Turkish power sector, several implementation
challenges lie ahead -- the principal challenges are:
(a) Resolving the problem of growing revenue deficits in the power
sector. These revenue deficits arise in the distribution sector and have
a major impact on the other upstream segments of the electricity supply
chain (i.e. transmission, generation and gas supply to power plants).
Basically, the distribution sector is unable to pay for all the energy it
purchases due to losses, failure to pay bills and electricity that has
been provided free to mosques and for street lighting. Unless these
problems are corrected to a level that ensures adequate cash flow in the
sector, privatization of distribution and generation will be much more
difficult without substantial government backstops.
(b) Dealing with the potential stranded costs that arise from the
above-market price contracts signed with BOT and BOO project sponsors.
Many of these contracts embody extremely high offtake prices and volumes,
that will require special administrative arrangements to absorb within the
market framework. The law assigns these contract obligations to a
government-owned electricity trader (TETTAS) who has to meet them by
reselling the electricity to distributors. To ensure that the electricity
can be sold at a price that is close to market and does not create
perverse economic signals, it is necessary to moderate the cost of this
- 2 -



high priced electricity with cheap hydropower (i.e. priced at close to its
operating cost).    The Government needs to ensure that the hydropower
price is appropriate and to ensure that a clear long-term framework to
recover stranded costs is in place.
(c) Achieving regulatory certainty and clarity.    The market structure
being implemented in Turkey represents a significant shift from the
present operating arrangements and requires an entirely new framework of
rules, regulations and procedures, the principles for many of which have
been defined in the last 12 months. Work remains to be done inter alia in
developing/completing: the actual multi-year tariff setting and review
methodology for each of the distribution regions; the balancing and
settlement code for market operation; the methodology to determine the
allowable wholesale energy price pass-through to final captive consumers.
The timely completion of this work and its acceptance by the sector
participants, many of whom will be private, will be central to achieving
the regulatory certainty and clarity required for private investment.
(d) Coordinating reform implementation across multiple agencies. The
reform program requires the alignment of eight main implementing agencies
behind a single coordinated strategy -- these agencies include: Ministry
of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR), EMRA, Treasury, Privatization
Administration (PA), the transmission company (TEIAS), the generation
company (EUAS), the distribution company (TEDAS), and the trading company
(TETTAS).   The reform program entails changes in the roles and
responsibilities of many of these agencies, some of whom are resistant to
this change. Strong program management is required to ensure
accountability for task completion.
The Government and EMRA are aware of these issues and have been working
hard to address them. A World Bank loan for reform implementation (Loan
No. 4344-1) is helping the Government obtain advisory services to
evaluate and determine appropriate solutions to these issues.
Third, to ensure that economic renewable energy resources are adequately
and safely exploited to meet domestic energy demand.     Turkey is extremely
well endowed with renewable energy resources, in contrast to its general
lack of fossil fuels. Total potential generation from hydropower is
estimated at about 164 TWh of which 112 TWh would be from large hydropower
plants and 52 TWh in small plants. DSI has made considerable progress in
exploiting the larger hydropower sites but relatively little progress has
been made in developing the smaller hydropower sites.     Currently, 88
projects, having a site capacity less than 30 MW, are in operation for a
total installed capacity of 486 MW and generation potential of 1.9 TWh per
year. Of this 348 MW which have been privately developed as BOT, BOO and
autoproducer projects.
Preliminary studies conducted by the Department of State Hydraulic Works
(DSI) and the General Directorate of Electric Power Resources (EIE) for
the 26 river basins in Turkey have led to the identification of 344 small
hydropower projects (i.e. those less than 30 MW) with a generating
capacity of 3,400 MW and potential to produce 14.1 TWh of electricity a
year.   Ten (10) projects are under construction with a capacity of 153 MW
and generation potential of 0.6 TWh. The remaining projects are in
various stages of preparation/development -- ranging from having promoters
with detailed feasibility studies and resource use rights, to those at the
stage of pre-feasibility analysis prepared by DSI/EIE. In addition to
these projects, topographical analysis of the basins indicates that there
may be as much as an additional 5,000 MW of potential small hydropower
- 3 -



capacity capable of producing around 38 TWh. As mentioned above, this
means that the total small hydropower potential may be as much as 52 TWh
which is equivalent to about   40t of current demand.    Detailed analysis
of the river basins is likely to yield a substantial potential for small
hydropower.
Turkey is also rich in wind and geothermal resources. It is estimated
that Turkey has the potential for up to 11,000 MW of wind capacity,
capable of generating about 25 tWh of electricity per year. Most of this
capacity is along the country's sea coasts especially along the Sea of
Marmara, the Aegean and the Black Sea. However, it is not clear how much,
if any, of this capacity is currently economic at the forecast wholesale
electricity price of about 5.0 US cents/kWh Nevertheless as the cost of
wind generating equipment continues to fall, it may well become economic.
Proven geothermal capacity is only about 200 MW of electricity generating
capacity and about 2,250 MW of thermal ( heat generating) capacity.
However, the potential for electricity generation from geothermal
resources ( including proven resources) is thought to be as much as 4,500
MW.
2. Objectives
The project objective is to increase privately owned and operated
distributed power generation from renewable sources within the
market-based framework of the new Turkish Electricity Market Law.
The project aims to demonstrate the feasibility of private development of
economic and financially viable renewable energy projects within a
competitive market framework. This will be achieved by establishing the
necessary institutional procedures and capacity, supporting regulations,
and a financing mechanism to provide commercial long-term debt for
renewable energy projects.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank project will assist the Government of Turkey in
establishing a comprehensive framework for renewables development, and a
credible financial intermediation mechanism, that will enable Turkey in
attracting other grant, concessional and bilateral sources of funds for
renewable energy resource development.
One possible source of funds is the GEF which Turkey should soon become
eligible for. Turkey has recently signed the UNFCCC as an Annex I country
but this signing has not yet been ratified by Parliament. There does not
appear to be any significant opposition in Parliament to ratification but
rather Parliament has delayed ratification because it has more urgent
matters to deal with. Once the UNFCCC Agreement has been ratified,
Turkey would be eligible for GEF funding for projects to reduce the impact
of climate change, such as these renewable energy projects. The issue has
been discussed with GEF and a proposal will be made to it after
ratification, asking for funds to help implement the project or to help
subsidize the development of wind power which is probably not economic
currently but can probably become so. The Prototype Carbon Fund ( PCF) has
also been approached but they cannot provide funding unless Turkey
ratifies the Kyoto Convention which is less certain both as to whether it
might occur and when.
Bilateral donors have also been contacted and have shown interest
including KFW. The EU might provide additional sources of funding or
-4 -



technical assistance. Thus the World Bank project will play an extremely
useful development role in helping Turkey mobilize such additional sources
of financing and technical assistance.
The Bank will also assist Turkey with the development of its renewable
energy policy and coordination of this policy with energy and electricity
policy in general. The Bank has considerable experience with renewable
energy projects in other countries as is mentioned above and also in
electricity sector restructuring. Bank involvement will increase the
likelihood of the country developing an effective renewable energy policy
and approach, consistent with the new competitive electricity market which
is being introduced.
4. Description
The project has four main components:
1. The Special Purpose Debt Facility (SPDF) for Renewable Energy
Generation Financing
Total investment in renewable energy generation financing under the
project is expected to be around $500 Million which would include equity
financing from the private sponsors, debt financing from export credit
agencies, the World Bank Special Purpose Debt Facility ( SPDF) as well as
commercial banks.
The SPDF is a term lending facility which will be established and will be
operated by the two financial intermediaries (FIs).     The two FIs selected
are:
(a) Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB) -- the Turkish Industrial
Development Bank ( private)
(b) Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi (TKB) -- the Turkish Development Bank
Government)
The World Bank loan for the SPDF will be on-lent from Treasury (the
Borrower) to the FIs.    The FIs will utilize the SPDF to provide long-term
debt financing to private sponsors of renewable energy projects. The SPDF
is intended to leverage equity investment from local private developers,
export credit financing and other financing for the construction and
operation of qualified renewable generation projects.
The two FIs have been selected based on their financial strength, their
capacity to appraise and supervise project implementation, and the ability
of the Turkish Treasury to on-lend public funds to these organizations.
2.   Project Pipeline Development Capacity:
For the immediate to medium-term (next 2-3 years) there is a substantial
potential pipeline of projects which are at an advanced stage of
development by private sponsors. The potential pipeline of projects for
the immediate-term are listed in Annex 2. Some were developed originally
as autoproducer projects and have been granted resource use rights (i.e.
water-use rights), and others are BOT projects with signed implementation
agreements which are not going to receive Treasury Guarantees.
In order to sustain the pipeline of potential projects into the
longer-term, institutional strengthening and capacity building is needed
to enable MENR and its supporting agencies (DSI and EIE) to collect,
evaluate and disseminate technical data and information about potential
sites to prospective private sector developers. This project component
will provide project implementation support by:
- Improving the methodologies and analytic tools used to evaluate, analyze
- 5-



and screen renewable energy projects.
- Implementing improved river basin modeling approaches that incorporate
environmental and social criteria within the context of integrated river
basin development plans.
- Developing a Wind Energy Atlas to better determine wind sites that are
suitable for economic power generation
- Undertaking additional feasibility studies on Turkey's renewable energy
potential -- particularly geothermal resources.
- Assisting with the implementation of improved web-based procedures for
project status tracking and public notification.
3.   Legislation for Renewable Energy Resource Development:
Apart from the Electricity Market Law ( EML) and the MENR-DSI Regulation
on Principles and Procedures for Obtaining a Water-Use Rights Agreement,
Turkey does not have a specific and comprehensive law for renewable energy
resource development. Although the EML and associated secondary
regulations do define generation from renewable energy sources and provide
for limited market-based incentives for their development, there remains a
need for the Government to establish its long-term objectives for
renewable energy development and clarify an appropriate legal basis for
this purpose.
This project component is intended to assist MENR in the preparation of a
Renewable Energy Law, as well as define the required changes and
modifications to related legislation such as the EML( Law 4628) , Law No.
3154 on the Organization and Duties of the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources, and Law No. 6200 on the Organization and Duties of the General
Directorate of DSI. These changes are needed because of the changing
policy and regulatory roles of MENR and DSI as the private sector begins
to play a more significant role in developing and operating renewable
energy project.
4.   Project Implementation and Monitoring Support:
The roles and responsibilities of MENR, DSI, and EIE will change as the
Electricity Market Law is implemented and the competitive market structure
(with privately owned generation and distribution entities) emerges. The
responsibility for developing generation capacity, including renewable
generation, will shift to the private sector.    The implications of this
change will be most significant for hydro-electric power generation which
has been close to a Government monopoly but where the role of the private
sector will rapidly increase. This project component would assist in
developing revised procedures for the regulation of design, construction
and operation of renewable energy projects, particularly hydro, to ensure
that the resource development does not endanger public safety; nor
negatively impact other users; and, is in accordance with environmental
and social protection rules and regulations.
This elements of this work will include:
- Clarifying the dam safety regulations and supervision roles of DSI
- Develop responsibilities and procedures for water resource development
planning in the context of a particular basin taking into account the
intent of the Dublin principles. [ Three fundamental principles (known as
"the Dublin Principles") for modern water resources management were
defined during the Rio Earth Summit. These are (a) the ecological
principle, which argues for coordinated management of water resources, the
river basin becoming the unit of analysis, land and water resources being
managed together, and much greater attention paid to the environment.; (2)
the institutional principle, which argues that water resources management
- 6 -



is best done when all stakeholders participate; (3) the instrument
principle, which argues that water is a scarce resource, and that greater
use needs to be made of incentives and economic principles in improving
allocation and enhancing quality.
- Develop responsibilities and procedures for allocation of water,
contracting of water rights and the supervision of water usage;
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD $205.00
IDA
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY $50.00
SUB-BORROWER(S) $150.00
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED) $3.00
EXPORT CREDIT (UNIDENTIFIED) $100.00
Total Project Cost $508.00
6. Implementation
Figure 1. below outlines the institutional and implementation arrangements
for the project.
Special Purpose Debt Facility:
The Borrower will be the Government of Turkey, specifically the
Undersecretariat of Treasury. Treasury will on-lend the IBRD loan to the
two financial intermediaries, TSKB and TKB.
The two financial intermediaries will operate the Special Purpose Debt
Facility and provide long-term debt for eligible renewable energy project
investments. The operation of the Special Purpose Debt Facility shall be
in accordance with an "Operations Manual" prepared by each FI and agreed
with the World Bank. The Operations Manual details the:
(a) The procedures for the operating the SPDF between FI, Treasury and
World Bank.
(b) On-lending terms and conditions between Treasury and the FI,
(c) Sub-project eligibility criteria for financing by the SPDF.
(d) Lending terms and conditions for sub-projects -- agreements between
the FI and the private renewable energy sponsors.
(e) Project evaluation guidelines.
(f) Environmental and resettlement review procedures including dam safety
and riparian issues;
(g) Procurement processes and applicable limits for commercial practice
(h) Disbursement procedures.
The FIs will bear the credit-risk on the SPDF funds that they provide for
eligible private sector renewable energy projects -- and for assessing the
commercial risk of the renewable energy projects.     The lending spreads on
these loans will be based on the creditworthiness of the borrowers. The
FIs will only provide long-term debt financing to local private developers
who submit proposals which, inter alia, have fulfilled all necessary
licensing requirements of the Electricity Market Regulatory Authority
(EMRA).
Project Processing -- MENR, DSI, EIE and EMRA
-7 -



DSI and EIE shall maintain a database of identified renewable energy
project opportunities.    The identified project opportunities are at
different stages of development -- ranging from reconnaissance study
reports to feasibility study reports prepared by DSI/EIE. In addition,
for the immediate-term, there are about 400 MW of hydro electric projects,
an additional 161 MW of wind energy projects and one geothermal project
(25 MW) which are fairly far advanced and supported by individual private
sector sponsors. These developers already have the resource rights and
feasibility studies approved and could move for implementation provided
they obtain a license from EMRA. To obtain a license from EMRA all
projects would have to conform to the requirements of the Licensing
Regulation and the principles of the Electricity Market Law.
The Regulation (to be) issued by MENR and implemented by DSI that relates
to renewable energy development from hydro-resources covers the following
steps:
(a) Procedures for the preparation, public announcement, and updating of
the list of potential hydro-electric projects
(b) Procedures for private sponsors to register their project application,
and then advance through the stages of feasibility report preparation,
submission, and evaluation. Multiple applications for a specific project
are possible, and DSI shall review them based on technical feasibility,
safety, and optimal resource utilization.
(c) Provision of conditional water-use-rights to sponsors whose
feasibility studies are found to be acceptable by DSI. The sponsor(s) for
the project can then apply to EMRA for a license -- once again there can
be multiple license applications for a single project. EMRA will select
between competing license applications for a single project based on
criteria that include: increasing competition; level of sponsor
preparedness and experience; local participation; as well as preference to
those who sell directly to eligible consumers (rather than requiring EMRA
to oblige retailers/ distributors to purchase the power)
(d) Issuance of final water-use rights. A model Water-Use Agreement is
attached to the Regulation, which will be the basis for negotiation and
finalization of the water-use-right between DSI and the sponsor.
For the case of wind energy projects the sponsor has his feasibility study
reviewed by EIE which issues a no-objection and then the sponsor proceeds
directly to EMRA to obtain a license.
7. Sustainability
The project is highly sustainable especially the hydropower plants. These
plants once built last for a long period ( often sixty years or more) and
the cash flow should be more than sufficient to operate and maintain them
(since this is very low cost) and to replace them at the end of the
period. Wind plants once built are also quite sustainable though they do
not last as long as hydropower plants.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
1. Lessons from Renewable Energy Development Projects
The proposed Renewable Energy Project takes into account the lessons
learned from the implementation of similar IDA and IBRD financed renewable
power generation projects in Indonesia, Sri Lanka and India (Indonesia
Renewable Energy Small Power Project, Sri Lanka Energy Services Delivery
- 8-



Project, India Renewable Resources Development Project). The main lesson
are:
(a) Governments need to set up and transparently apply a set of clear
policies and regulations that would provide predictability on
tariff-setting for power supply transactions between local distribution
utilities and private power developers.
(b) To move beyond "one-of-a-kind" demonstration projects and/or pilot
projects for grid-connected renewable power generation projects, it is
prudent to provide support to countries through a strategic mix of
investment and TA instruments, focusing on the financial intermediation
for private developers but also on local capacity building and
pre-investment activities to ensure sustainability of developmental
outcomes.
(c) Timely development of a pipeline of prospective renewable power
generation projects (i.e., identification and pre-feasibility studies)
facilitates implementation efforts by financial intermediaries and
sustains the interest of private developers who might otherwise opt to
pursue alternative investment opportunities.
(d) The interest of local financial institutions to serve as promoters and
intermediaries to retail IDA and IBRD financing can best be sustained if
commercial business practices are adopted for procurement and the
processes adopted for disbursement of funds is streamlined to the extent
feasible.
(e) Long-term commitment by financial intermediaries, the Government and
regulatory entities is required to sustain the interest of private power
developers and thereby mainstream renewable power generation initiatives,
as compared to conventional options.
2. Lessons from Financial Intermediation Projects
The proposed Renewable Energy Project design takes into account lessons
learnt in financial intermediation operations -- both in renewable energy
and for other forms of financial intermediation projects. The main
lessons are that:
(a) It is far from ideal to have a government entity act as in an "apex"
capacity, as such entities generally do not have the skills, in-house
systems (financial, accounting, etc) and -- most importantly -- financial
incentives to proactively pursue successful project implementation.
(b) The design should be kept as flexible as possible, with a minimum
number of, or no restrictions, in terms of minimum loan or sub-loan size,
maturity, currency denomination, cofinancing requirements, etc. The was
clear from the experience with the Turkey - Industrial Export Development
Project, and the Turkey Second Small/Medium Industry Project.
(c) Only strong and committed local financial institutions should be
selected to participate in the project.
(d) It is necessary to ensure quality at entry and closely monitor the
performance of private developers in the Bank supported portfolio ; and
(e) Private power developers should be required to put up a significant
amount of equity towards each proposal to be supported by Bank funds.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The subject project has been classified as FI. In accordance with World
Bank procedures the Operations Manual will contain a section on
Environmental Review Procedures that would describe documentation,
-9-



consultation and disclosure requirements. This section has been prepared
and agreed upon by the FIs and the World Bank. All sub-loans to be
financed under the "Renewable Energy Loan (REL) will be subject to an
environmental and resettlement review process. These process and
requirements incorporate the Republic of Turkey's regulatory requirements
for Environmental Review (Regulation on of Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) published in Official Gazette No: 24777 and dated June 6th, 2002, as
supplemented by Article 10 of Environmental Act No: 2872 dated August 9th,
1983) and World Bank safeguard policies. In particular, the policies on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) and Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).
Since it is an FI loan, specific environmental issues are not known a
priori, but are generally believed to be small, as related to small
facilities that are built as "run-of-river" facilities or schemes that
utilize existing hydraulic facilities (irrigation canals, existing dams).
Stakeholder will be consulted in a manner consistent with World Bank
policies and Turkish regulations and is described fully in the
environmental section of the Operations Manual. Stakeholders will be
consulted during the environmental assessments of the individual
projects. The Ministry of Environment is charged with this
responsibility.
This Environmental Review Procedures Section of the Operations Manual
will be delivered to the Infoshop prior by March 10th, 2003, prior to the
departure of the appraisal mission.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ranjit Lamech
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-3282
Fax:   (202) 614-1582
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 10 -



