                                              Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 25497-TU




                                 PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                               INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$202.03 MILLION

                                               TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                                FORA

                                  RENEWABLE ENERGYPROJECT

                                           February26,2004




InfrastructureandEnergyDepartment
EuropeandCentralAsia Region
 This document has a restricteddistribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
 official duties. Its contents maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective February 26,2004)
                         Currency Unit = TurkishLira ( TL)
                              1,334,947 = US$1
                         US$0.0000007 = 1TL

                                   FISCALYEAR
                              January 1 -- December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOO                   BuildOwnOperate
BOT                   BuildOwnTransfer
BRSA                  Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Agency
CAR                   Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
DSI                   General Directorate o f State Hydraulic Works
EIE                   General Directorate of Electric Power Resources
EML                   Energy Market Law
EMRA                  Energy MarketRegulatory Authority
EU                    European Union
EUAS                  Electricity GenerationCompany
FI                    Financial Intermediary
FSL                   Fixed SpreadLoan
HESIAD                WindPower Producers Association
MENR                  MinistryofEnergyandNaturalResources
MW                    Megawatt
PCF                   Prototype Carbon Fund
RESIAD                Hydropower Producers Association
SPDF                  Special Purpose Debt Facility
TEDAS                 TurkishElectricity Distribution Company
TEIAS                 TurkishElectricity TransmissionCompany
TETTAS                TurkishElectricity Trading andContractingCompany
TKB                   Development Bank o f Turkey
TOOR                  Transfer o f OperatingRights
TSKB                  IndustrialDevelopment Bank o f Turkey
TWh                   Terawatthour
UNFCCC                UnitedNationsFramework Conventionon Climate Change




                        Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
              Country Managermirector:       Andrew Vorkink
               Sector ManagerDirector:       Henk Busz
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Ranjit Lamech

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                     TURKEY
                                        RENEWABLEENERGYPROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




      A. ProjectDevelbpmentObjective                                                          Page

          1. Project development objective                                                      3
          2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

      B. Strategic Context

          1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      3
          2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                          3
          3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                  6

      C. Project Description Summary

          1. Project components                                                                  8
          2. Keypolicy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                        10
          3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
          4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12

       D.ProjectRationale

          1. Project alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection                           14
          2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       15
          3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                 15
          4. Indications of borrower commitmentand ownership                                    16
          5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        17

       E. Summary Project Analysis

          1. Economic                                                                           17
          2. Financial                                                                          18
          3. Technical                                                                          19
          4. Institutional                                                                      19
          5. Environmental                                                                      22
          6. Social                                                                             23
          7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25

       F. Sustainabilityand Risks

          1. Sustainability                                                                     26
          2. Criticalrisks                                                                      26

This document has a restricted distributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                                         -

  3. Possiblecontroversial aspects                                                       27


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             27
  2. Other                                                                               27

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          28

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             28


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     31
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    39
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    49
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements                             54
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     60
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    61
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 62
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            65
Annex 11: Indicative List o f Renewable Energy Power GenerationProspects                 67
Annex 12: Overview ofthe Financial Intermediaries TSKB and TKB
                                                  -                                      72
Annex 13: Summary Assessment o f TSKB and TKB Eligibility                                75




MWS)
Renewable Energy Project RiverBasins andWindPower Prospects, IBRD32412
                          -

                                                     TURKEY
                                              RenewableEnergyProject
                                       Project Appraisal Document
                                           Europe andCentral Asia Region
                                                      ECSIE

Date: February 26,2004                                   Team Leader: Ranjit J. Lamech
Sector ManagerDirector: Henk Busz                        Sector(s): Renewable energy (50%), Micro- and S M E
Zountry ManageriDirector: Andrew Vorkink                 finance (50%)
Project ID: PO72480                                      Theme@): Climate change (P), Other financial and private
LendingInstrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        sector development (P), Water resourcemanagement (S)


 [XI Loan       [ ]Credit       [ ]Grant        [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): 202.03
BorrowerRationalefor Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:Ixi Yes
ProposedTerms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period(years): 4                                  Years to maturity: 12
                                                        Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                                                        Paymentfor FEF: Capitalize from LoanProceeds

Initial choice of Interest-ratebasis: Maintainas Variable
Type of repaymentschedule:
 [ ] Fixedat Commitment,withthe following repaymentmethod (chooseone):
 [XI, Linkedto Disbursement
Conversion options: [XICurrency      [ ]Interest Rate [x]Caps/Collars:



:BRD                                                                   82.03            120.00        202.03
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                                     50.00              0.00          50.00
WB-BORROWER(S)                                                        150.00              0.00         150.00
3XPORT CREDIT (UNIDENTIFIED)                                            0.00            100.00         100.00
rotal:                                                                282.03            220.00        502.03

Borrower: REPUBLICOF TURKEY
GovernmentofTurkey will on-lendthe proceedsto two financial intermediaries who will implementthe
project. The Ministry ofEnergyandNaturalResources(MENR)will implementthe complementary
institutionaldevelopmentactivities.

Responsible agency: FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES-- TSKB AND TKB
TurlushIndustrialDevelopmentBank [TSKB      - TurkiyeSinai KalkinmaBankasi]
Address: Meclis MebusanCaddesiNo. 161,34427 Findikli, ISTANBUL
Contact Person: Mr.OrhanBeskok, ExecutiveVice-president
Tel: (90-212)-334-5261                 Fax: (90-212)-243-2975              Email: beskoko@tskb.Com.&
Other Agency(ies):
TurkishDevelopmentBank [TKB       - TurkiyeKalkinma Bankasi]
Address: NecatibeyCaddesiNo.98, Bakanliklar 06100, ANKARA, Turkey
Contact Person: Ms.CanselInankur,DeputyGeneralManager
Tel: (90-312)-23 1-0062                Fax: (90-312-)-230-2394,417-0146
                                       Email: c-inankur@tkb.com.&

Ministry ofEnergy andNaturalResources[MENR]
Address: InonuBulvari36, ANKARA
Contact Person: Mr.Budak Dilli,DirectorGeneral
Tel: (90-312) 222 4059
-                 - -                 Fax: (90-312) 212-6984               Email: budakd@tedas.gOv.&
EstimatedDisbursementin US$m Equivalent(Bank FYISemesters):




Project implementationperiod: 2004-2010
Expectedeffectivenessdate: 07/30/2004 Expectedclosing date: 06/30/2010




                                                       - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
      The project objective is to increase privately owned and operated distributed power generation
       from renewable sources, without the need for government guarantees, and within the
       market-basedframework of the new Turkish Electricity Market Law.
       The project objective will be achieved by establishing a commercial financing mechanism for
       renewableenergy projects and demonstratingthe feasibility of private development of economic
       and financially viable renewable energy projectswithin a competitivemarket framework.



2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
        (a) Increasein the: (i) amount of electricity producedfrom privately owned renewablegeneration
            facilities under normal hydraulicand wind conditions (measured in kWh per year); and (ii)
            renewableenergy generatingcapacity addedto system (measuredin MW).
        (b) Reduction in emissions of carbondioxide (measured in tons per year) as a result of
            substitutingrenewable energy producedby the private sector for energy producedfrom fossil
            fuels.
       (c) Amount of privatecapital raisedfor every dollar of World Bank financing through the Special
            Purpose Debt Facility (LeverageRatio).



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber:Report 26756-TU           Dateof latestCAS discussion:November 6,2003
       The sector-related CAS goal supported by this project is to increase private sector investment in
       powergeneration without government guarantees and thereby create a firm foundationto reduce
       the fiscal problems created by government backstops to private sector involvement in the
       Turkish power sector.

       In addition, the project will support the CAS goal of strengthening environmental management
       and disaster mitigation practices that will ensure low environment and social impact, in a manner
       that does not endanger public safety.

       The project also ties into the three priorities of the World Bank in Europe and CentralAsia region
       which are to: (a) support key global public goods including environmental commons; (b) help
       create the conditions for a vibrant private sector; and (c) develop a sound public sector by
       reducing government contingent liabilities and by leveraging Government investment with
       privatefunds.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
There are three main challengesfacingthe powersector inTurkey:

       First  -- to reform the sector in order to shift to a sustainable private investment approach
       where commercial risk is borne by the private investor.                 There have been several
       approaches employed over the last two decades to restructure the sector and obtain private
       investment. While private investment and ownership of generation assets has increased


                                                    - 3 -

sharply, these arrangements have substantially increased government contingent liabilities by
transferring much of the commercial risk for these plants to the government. In addition, these
investments have come with real costs to the country by forcing the utilization of more expensive
generation in lieu of cheaper source of available capacity. Four different arrangements were
used in the past to attract private investors. These are the Build-Operate-Transfer(BOT) model,
the Build-Own-Operate (BOO) model, the auto-producer model and the Transfer of Operating
Rights (TOOR) model. The first three models (BOT, BOO, auto-producer) have been used to
obtain private investment in new power plants. The TOOR model has been used to try and
concession existing generating assets and distribution companiesto private investors. The BOT
and BOO approaches attracted substantial new investment in power plants -- however, the
energy prices from BOT plants are extremely high, and both approaches have created huge
contingent public obligations with the government covering the market risk through take-or-pay
contracts. In this respect the Turkish experience is similar to the IPP programs in a number of
South and East Asian countries.        The auto-producer model, which is essentially a form of
self-generation employed by industries who also sell surplus energy to the national grid, is in
many respects the most successful as it has created a large amount of capacity without any
associated public liabilities.
In response to the need for sustainable private involvement in the sector, the Government has
embarked on a far-reaching reform program that aims to establish a competitive market
structure with separate generation and distribution firms that will gradually be privatized. These
reforms are progressing in accordance with the principles and time frames defined in the
Electricity Market Law (Law 4628) which was enacted in February, 2001. A separate regulatory
institution, the Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) has also been created per the
provisions of the Electricity Market Law.
Second    -- to quickly implement critical reform steps in order to achieve a smooth reform
transition. Although important steps have been taken to advance fundamental reforms in the
Turkish power sector, several critical steps needto be taken, including:
(a) Resolvingthe problem of revenue deficits in the power sector. These revenue deficits arise
    in the distribution sector and have a major impact on the other upstream segments of the
    electricity supply chain (Le. transmission, generation and gas supply to power plants).
    Basically,the distributionsector is unable to pay for all the energy it purchasesdue to losses,
    failure to pay bills and electricity that has been provided free to mosques and for street
    lighting. Unlessthese problems are corrected to a level that ensures adequate cash flow in
    the sector, privatization of distribution and generation will be difficult without substantial
    governmentbackstops.
(b) Dealing with the potential stranded costs that arise from the above-market price contracts
    signed with BOT and BOO project sponsors. Many of these contracts embody extremely
    high offtake prices and volumes, that will requice special administrative arrangements to
    absorb within the market framework. The law assigns these contract obligations to a
    government-owned electricity trader (TETTAS) who has to meet them by reselling the
    electricity to distributors. To ensure that the electricity can be sold at a price that is close to
    market and does not create perverse economic signals, nor undermine political acceptance
    for the reforms, it is necessaryto moderate (Le. cross-subsidize)the cost of this high priced
    electricitywith cheap hydropower(Le. priced at close to its operating cost). The Government
    needs to ensure that the hydropower price is appropriate and that a clear long-term
    framework to recover stranded costs is in place.
(c) Achieving regulatory certainty and clarity. The market structure being implemented in
    Turkey represents a significant shift from the present operating arrangements and requires
    an entirely new framework of rules, regulations and procedures, the principles for many of
    which have been defined in the last 12 months. Work remains to be done inter alia in
    developing/completing:the actual multi-year tariff setting and review methodology for each
    of the distribution regions; the balancing and settlement code for market operation; and the
    methodologyto determine the allowable wholesale energy price pass-throughto final captive



                                            - 4 -

    consumers. The timely completionof this work and its acceptance by the sector participants,
    many of whom will be private,will be centralto achievingthe regulatorycertainty and clarity
    requiredfor private investment.
(d) Coordinatingreformimplementationacross multipleagencies. The reform programrequires
    the alignment of eight main implementingagencies behind a single coordinated strategy       --
    these agencies include: Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR), EMRA,
    Treasury, Privatization Administration (PA), the transmission company (TEIAS), the
    generation company (EUAS), the distribution company (TEDAS), and the trading company
    (TETTAS). The reform programentails changes in the roles and responsibilitiesof many of
    these agencies, some of whom are resistantto this change. Strong programmanagement is
    requiredto ensureaccountabilityfor task completion.
The Government and EMRA are aware of these issues and have been working hard to address
them.     A World Bank loan for reform implementation (Loan No. 4344-1) is helping the
Government obtain advisory services to evaluate and determine appropriate solutions to these
issues, and implementthem.
Third, to ensure that economic renewable energy resources are adequately and safely
exploited to meet domestic energy demand.              Turkey is extremely well endowed with
renewable energy resources, especiallyhydropower, in contrast to its general lack of fossil fuels.
Potential generationfrom hydropoweris estimated at about 126 TWh of which 112 TWh would
be from large hydropower plants and 14.1 TWh in small plants. The Department of State
HydraulicWorks (DSI) has made considerableprogress in exploitingthe larger hydropowersites
but relatively little progress has been made in developing the smaller hydropower sites.
Currently, 88 projects, having a site capacity less than 30 MW, are in operation for a total
installed capacity of 486 MW and generation potential of 1.9 TWh per year. Of this 348 MW
which have been privatelydeveloped as BOT and autoproducer projects.
Preliminary studies conducted by      (DSI) and the General Directorate of Electric Power
Resources (EIE) for the 26 river basins in Turkey have led to the identification of 344 small
hydropower projects (Le. those less than 30 MW) with a generatingcapacity of 3,400 MW and
potentialto produce14.1 TWh of electricitya year. Ten (IO) projectsare under constructionwith
a capacity of 153 MW and generation potentialranging
various stages of preparation/development      --  of 0.6 TWh. The remaining projects are in
                                                          from having promoters with detailed
feasibility studies and resource use rights, to those at the stage of reconnaissance studies
prepared by DSVEIE. In additionto these projects,topographicalanalysisof the basinsindicates
that there may be as much as an additional 5,000 MW of potential small hydropower capacity
capable of producing around 19 TWh. As mentioned above, this means that the total small
hydropower potential may be as much as 33 TWh which is equivalentto about 25% of current
demand. Detailedanalysisof the river basins is thus likely to yield a large number of additional
small hydropower projects.
Turkey is also rich in wind and geothermal resources. It is estimated that Turkey has the
potential for up to 11,000 MW of wind capacity, capable of generating about 25 TWh of
electricityper year. Most of this capacity is along the country's sea coasts especially along the
Sea of Marmara, the Aegean and the Black Sea. However, it is not clear how much, if any, of
this capacity is currently economic at the forecast wholesale electricity price of about 5.0 US
cents/kWh. Neverthelessas the cost of wind generatingequipment continuesto fall, it may well
become economic. Additionally, if the costs of externalities are appropriately estimated and
reflectedinthe priceof power,wind generationmay also becomeeconomic.
Proven geothermal capacity is only about 200 MW of electricity generating capacity and about
2,250 MW of thermal (heat generating) capacity.          However, the potential for electricity
generation from geothermal resources( includingprovenresources) is thought to be as much as
4,500 MW.




                                          - 5 -

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
1.     IssuesAddressed by the Project

       The projectwill address the two issues of (a) shiftingto a sustainable approachin order to obtain
       private investment without government guarantees; and, (b) expanding the economic utilization
       of Turkey's abundant renewableenergy resource base.

       With the move towards a competitive wholesale power market as envisaged in the Electricity
       Market Law and the ending of Treasury guarantees, private developers of power generation
       projects will find it more difficult to obtain financing. Moreover, private developers of renewable
       energy projectswill find it even more difficult because of the followingfactors:

       (a) the capital intensive nature of most renewabletechnologies, resultingin a higherdemand for
           capital and highfixed costs and thereforea greater exposure to market and regulatoryrisks;

       (b) long asset livesof most renewabletechnologies in comparisonto the available maturitiesof
           commercial loans;

       (c) high local cost (e.g. civil works) proportionof some technologies (hydropowerand
           geothermal) notfinanceable by export credits, a primary source of debt financing for private
            power projects;

       (d) the requirementfor reliable resourceassessmentsbased on longterm data, and inthe case
           of hydropowerthe needfor upstreammasterplanstudies to determine additional potential
           configurations in a river basin context;

       (e) higher pre-investmentcosts, particularlyfor hydropowerbecause of the site specific nature
           of designs and the needto advancestudies at least to feasibility levelto obtain an adequate
           cost estimateon which an investmentdecision can be based.

       (9 uncertaintyaboutthe appetite of the soon-to-beprivatizeddistributioncompaniesto enter
           into bilateral contractsto purchaseelectricityfrom renewable powergenerators due to the
           high "hassle factor" involved in dealing with these small plants.

       (9) market based pricingdoes not assign any value to the "public goods" element of renewable
           energy generation (in avoidanceof thermal emissions).

       The local private sponsors of prospective renewable power generation projects have asked the
       Governmentfor assistance to overcome some of the barriers identified above. The Government
       agrees that this is an important issue since the work done by the two Government agencies
       responsiblefor renewables (DSI and EIE) indicates that the economic potential for renewablesis
       very substantial. Also, many of the above barriers were previously overcome using the BOT
       model (which has now been largely eliminated) and the Government is anxious to adopt new
       approaches to deal with the barriers while minimizing Government obligations. They therefore
       asked the World Bank to assist with developing renewable power generation within a market
       framework. This project has been designedand preparedin responseto this request.

       The investment facility provided under the project will help to address the problem of long term
       financing of local costs. Similarly, shifting of the credit risk to strong local banks minimizesthe
       potentialfor call on the government guarantee and governments contingent liability. Agreement
       of the regulator to incorporate in the regulations an obligation to purchase competitively priced
       renewables addresses the "lack of appetite" barrier. Pipeline development addressing the
       resource assessment and masterplanning issues will be handled by the Government as the
       project is underway, while the Renewable Law to address the "public goods" value and possibly
       provide for a degree of tariff certainty for capital intensive renewables is in a draft stage. The


                                                      - 6 -

     sub-projects to be financed by the current investment facility do not appear to require such
     support. However, such support will likely be requiredfor significantdevelopment of wind power
     and, as eventually for small hydropower once the more attractive projects (generally
     piggy-backingon existinginfrastrucure) have been developed.

11.  Strategic Choices

1.   Structuringa Market Based Renewables DevelopmentFramework
     A key strategic choice was to define how to support renewable energy development within an
     electricity market. The easiest way to encourage developmentof renewable energy is to put in
     place a new set of rules and regulations,typically referredto as a "Renewables Obligation"that
     would force the newly privatized distribution companies to buy power from renewable power
     generators. This could be done by the so called standard offer approach under which distribution
     companies are required to buy renewable power if it is less than a certain price set by the
     Government or the portfolio approach under which distribution companies are required to
     purchase a certain minimum percentage of their electricity requirements (minimum supply
     obligation)from renewable sources or through other similar approaches. Normally under any of
     these approaches the price paid for renewable power by the distribution companies is above
     market levels and the companies comply to the extent that they are allowed to pass on the
     higher costs to their customers.

     However, at this stage the Government would prefer not to have to force the distribution
     companies to buy electricity from renewable sources at above market rates since this is an
     additional complication to the new reform program which is under way. Also, with the almost
     total lack of longer term domestic debt financing in Turkey, the above two approaches would
     have favored wind power (which can obtain most of its funds from export credits) as opposed to
     small hydropower plants which need domestic financing for civil works and electromechanical
     equipment. For these reasons the Government and the Bank agreed on the establishmentof a
     financing facility to support private sector-led development of distributed generation with
     renewable energy resources. The authorities believe that there is a large pool of economically
     viable renewable power generation projects which can be commercially developed to produce
     electricityat or below prices that are expected in the Turkish ElectricityMarket. The purpose of
     the proposed financing facility is thus to assist renewable power generation projects to obtain
     long-termdebt.

2.   Projectliming
     A second strategic choice was to do this project now, rather than waiting a few years. Turkey
     currently has a surplus of electricity generating capacity which is expected to last until at least
     2007. If this project were delayed by say two years then the first plants would come on stream
     only after the surplus had been eliminated. It was decided that this delay is unnecessary
     because:
     (a) the earliest new generating plants could be completed under this financing facility is around
         early 2007 and mostly later, just when the surplus is expected to be ending and capacitywill
         be required; and,
     (b) these small renewable energy generating plants would have essentially no impact on the
         surplus if they came on stream early. Basedon the loandisbursement schedule the capacity
         added in the initial years is expectedto be about 25 MW inthe first year, and perhaps about
         75 MW the second year, and about 125-150 MW per year for the next two years before
         tapering off. These additions represent an extremely small fraction of one percent of the
         total capacityinTurkey during theseyears.
     This project is really about breaking barriers and creating a mechanism and procedure for
     financing of renewableenergy by the privatesector, ratherthan resolvingTurkey's energysupply
     problems.     With the new electricity market in the process of being created, and the
     Government's desire to ensure that renewable energy development continues -- this is the


                                                - 7 -

          appropriatetime to put in place a systemthat will assist in achievingthese twin goals.


C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The project has one main component:

The Special Purpose Debt Facility (SPDF) for RenewableEnergyGeneration Financing
         Total investment in renewable energy generation financing under the project is expected to be
         around $500 Million which would include equity financing from the private sponsors, debt
         financing from export credit agencies, the World Bank Special Purpose Debt Facility( SPDF) as
         well as commercialbanks.
         The SPDF is a term lending facility which will be established and will be operated by the two
         financial intermediaries(Fls). The two Fls selected are:
         (a) Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB)              - the Turkish Industrial Development Bank
              (private)
         (b) Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi(TKB)         - the Turkish DevelopmentBank (Government)
         The World Bank loan for the SPDF will be on-lent from Treasury (the Borrower)to the Fls. The
         Fls will utilize the SPDF to provide long-term debt financing to private sponsors of renewable
         energy projects. The SPDF is intended to leverage equity investment from local private
         developers, export credit financing and other financing for the construction and operation of
         qualified renewable generation projects.
         The two Fls have been selected based on their financial strength, and their capacity to appraise
         and supervise project implementation. In addition, their status as "Development Banks" allows
         the TurkishTreasury to on-lend publicfunds to these organizations.
2. Project Supporting Activities
In order to support the implementation of the Project, MENR, DSI and EIE will undertake various
institutional development activities.      These activities will be financed through internal sources. and
grants. The World Bank and the Government will work together to obtain the required grant financing for
these activities. The principal institutionaldevelopment activitiesthat will be pursued include:
(a)      Renewable Energy DevelopmentCapacity:
         For the immediate to medium-term (next 2-3 years) there is a substantial potential pipeline of
         projects which are at an advanced stage of development by private sponsors. The potential
         pipeline of projects for the immediate-term are listed in Annex 2. Some were developed
         originally as autoproducer projects and have been granted resource use rights (Le. water-use
         rights), and others are BOT projects with signed implementation agreements. [Although these
         projects will continue to have the previously granted water rights, they will have to sign new
         water-use rightsagreements in accordancewith the new MENR-DSIregulationof water-use right
         agreements].      In order to sustain the pipeline of potential projects into the longer-term,
         institutional strengthening and capacity building is needed to enable MENR and its supporting
         agencies (DSI and EIE) to collect, evaluate and disseminate technical data and information
         about potentialsites to prospective privatesector developers. The activities will include:
             -    Improving the methodologies and analytic tools used to survey, investigate and plan
                  renewable energy projects.
             -    Implementingimproved river basin modelingapproaches that incorporate environmental
                  and social criteria within the context of integratedriver basin development plans.
             -    Undertaking additional feasibility studies on Turkey's renewable energy potential     --


                                                      - 8 -

             particularlygeothermal resources.
        -    Assisting with the implementation of improved web-based procedures for project status
             trackingand public notification.

(b) Legislationfor RenewableEnergyResource Development:
    Apart from the Electricity Market Law ( EML) and the MENR-DSI Regulationon Principles and
    Proceduresfor Obtaininga Water-Use Rights Agreement, Turkey does not have a specific and
    comprehensive law for renewable energy resource development. Although the EML and
    associated secondary regulations do define generation from renewable energy sources and
    provide for limited market-basedincentivesfor their development,there remains a need for the
    Governmentto establish its long-termobjectivesfor renewableenergy developmentand clarify
    an appropriate legal basis for this purpose. The outputs of these institutional development
    activities include: a Renewable Energy Law (which is now in draft) and requiredchanges and
    modifications to relevant legislation relating to the electricity sector and the organization and
    duties of institutions in the energy sector. These outputs will enhance the changing policy and
    regulatoryroles of MENR, EMRA and DSI as the privatesector beginsto play a more significant
    role indevelopingand operatingrenewable energy project.
(c) Mechanismsfor Public-PrivateHydropowerDevelopment:
    With the implementationof the new Electricity Market Law (Law No. 4628), the responsibilities
    for developingnew hydropower generation will tend to shifttowardsthe privatesector. However,
    given the generally multipurpose nature of Turkey's larger hydropower resources, a
    public-privatedevelopmentmodel is likelyto be appropriatefor large projects    -- asopposed to a
    purely private approachas envisaged for smaller projects. In addition, Governmententities still
    have a very importantrole to play in water resourcedevelopment planningand regulation. The
    institutionaldevelopment studies and tasks that the government would pursuewould include:
        -    Technical Regulation of Hydropower Development        --to define responsibilities, criteria
             and methodology for DSI to review and approve final designs relating to hydropower
             infrastructure (dams; water conveyance facilities, etc), and oversee hydropower project
             implementation. This work will include the issuance of regulations relating to technical
             standards.
        -    Preparation of Dam Safety Regulation -- to transform and enhance existing practices
             and standardsrelatingto dam design into a comprehensive set of world-classregulations
             that can be used to guide privatesector development of hydropowerdams.
        -    Implementation of Modern Techniques for Monitoring Dam Safety and Disaster
             Mitigation --  Introduction of state-of-art techniques and technologies to monitor dam
             safety and implement emergency planningand disastermitigationpractices. This would
             includeimprovedmodellingof innundationanalysis.
        -    Developa Strategyand Models for Public-PrivateDevelopmentof Large Hydropower             --
             The main purpose of the study would be to look at various modes of public private
             development of hydropower, and based on this develop a strategy for public private
             development in Turkey. The possibilityof using existing hydropowerassets to leverage
             new investmentwould also be evaluated.




                                                - 9 -

 1. RenewableEnergyGenerationFinancing                           500.00        99.6      200.00        99.0
 [SPDF =200 mn.US$;Sponsor Equity = 150mn. US$;
 ExportCredit Financing= 100mn.US$;Other Borrowing=




                                                              II
                                          ~Total Proiect Costs
                                                 Front-endfee
                                                                 502.03 I     100.0 I    202.03 I
                                 ~~~Total Financing Reauired                                          100.0




2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
Institutionaland Policy ReformsSupported Priorto Implementation
       Within the framework of the Turkish Electricity Market Law, the following policy and institutional
       measures have been developed and established during project preparation to support the
       expansionof privately sponsored renewablegeneration facilities:
       1. Licensing Definitionof RenewableGeneration: A clear definition of the term "generation
           facilities based on renewable resources" has been incorporated in EMRA's Licensing
           Regulation. This definition clarifies the type-of resources,as well as size limitson renewable
           generation plants (in the case of hydro) that would qualify for preferential and fast-track
           treatment within the market-basedprinciples of the ElectricityMarket Law.
       2. Project Processing Procedures: Establishment of streamlined procedures for: publishing
           project potential; receiving applications from private sponsors; reviewing the applications
           and feasibility studies; granting conditional and then final resource-use-rights after EMRA
           licensing. These procedures have been implementedfor hydro-electricprojects through an
           MENR-DSI Regulation. This Regulation is consistent with the Electricity Market Law and
           clearly defines the rights, responsibilities and accountability of all the involved agencies--
           specifically, DSI, EIE and the private sponsors.
       3. Market-Based Renewables Obligation: Implementation of a market-based renewable
           energy obligation that requires retailers to purchase energy from renewable generator if the
           price of this energy is less than the allowable wholesale energy price pass-through to
           consumers. Temporarily, the wholesale energy price is the TETTAS (Turkish Electricity
           Trading and Contracting Company) price. This market-based obligation does not distort the
           market, but would assist renewable sponsors in selling their energy and allow them to
           overcome the resistanceof retailersto deal with small, renewable projects.
       4. Implementation of Environmental impact assessment and mitigation procedures that
           will require the treatment of all renewable generation projects below 10 MW in accordance
           with the more stringent procedures for projects above 10 MW. These environmental impact
           assessment procedures for projects below 10 MW will currently apply only to projects that


                                                   - 10-

            are to be financed by the SPDF.
Institutional and Policy Reforms that will be Supported by the Government Durinq
Implementation
       1. InstitutionalMechanismand Capacity to Support Investment Lendingfor Renewables:
            The government will create an institutional base that can be used to attract further sources
            of bilateral and/or multilateral debt that can be utilized to support the financing of renewable
            energy projects in Turkey.
       2. Preparation of the Renewable Energy Law:                   MENR will prepare a comprehensive
            RenewableEnergy Law. The Renewable Energy Law will be compatible with the applicable
            EU Directives and will clarify government objectives, policy and implementation guidelines
            for long-termdevelopment of renewable resourcesin Turkey. This work has begun, using a
            PHRD project preparationgrant and a draft is now available.
       3. Regulation of Dam Safety and Private Hydraulic Infrastructure: MENR and DSI will
            establish procedures for regulating dam safety in the context of private sector development
            of hydraulicinfrastructure.
       4. Pipeline Development Capacity: The institutional capacity of both DSI and EIE will be
            enhanced to ensure that a continuous pipelineof economically feasible and environmentally
            beneficial renewable energy projects are identified. This work also began using a PHRD
            project preparationgrant.


3. Benefitsandtarget population:
   (a) The Government will benefit by not having to provide extensive guarantees against commercial
       risksto these renewable power plants. It will also be able to leverage its funds with privatefunds
       with the latter expected to provide around 70% of investmentcosts.
   (b) The population in general will gain from: (i) the reduction in pollution as energy productionfrom
       these renewable generation projects substitute for generation from fossil fuel fired power plants;
       (ii) improved economic stability by minimizing the fiscal risks stemming from government
       guaranteeson private investmentin the power sector.
   (c) It is expected that most of these renewable plants will be hydro power plants which tend to be
       built in the poorer, mountainous parts of Turkey. At the margin it is these regions that would
       benefit from the employment due to constructionactivity as well as continuing employment from
       operatingand maintainingthe plants once built.
   (d) Prospective private sector developers of renewable generation projects, will benefit from their
       access to longer maturity debt which is expected to cover at least 30% of total investmentcosts,
       This in turn should increasethe investmentin renewablegeneration projects.
   (e) Cross boundarybenefitswill resultfrom the reduction in the emissionof green house gases.




                                                    - 11-

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
        Figure 1. below outlines the institutionaland implementationarrangementsfor the project.




                                                                      .
                                                                      1ProjectPotential
                                                                       FeasibilityEvaluation



             -
             Indicative Financing Plan
              Equity      25%-plus




        Special PurposeDebt Facility:
        The Borrower will be the Republic of Turkey, represented by the Undersecretariatof Treasury.
        Treasurywill on-lend the IBRD loanto the two financial intermediaries,TSKB and TKB.
        The two financial intermediaries will operate the Special Purpose Debt Facility and provide
        long-term debt for eligible renewable energy project investments. The operation of the Special
        Purpose Debt Facility shall be in accordance with an "Operations Manual" prepared by each FI
        and agreed with the World Bank. The Operations Manualdetails the:
        (a) The proceduresfor the operatingthe SPDF between FI, Treasury and World Bank.
        (b) On-lendingterms and conditions betweenTreasuryand the FI,
        (c) Sub-project eligibilitycriteria for financing by the SPDF.
        (d) Lending terms and conditions for sub-projects-- agreements between the FI and the private
            renewable energy sponsors.
        (e) Projectevaluationguidelines.
        (f) Environmentaland resettlement review proceduresincludingdam safety and riparian issues.
        (9) Procurementprocessesand applicable limitsfor commercialpractice.
        (h) Disbursement procedures.



                                                     - 12-

The Fls will be responsible for assessingthe commercial risk of the renewableenergy projects,
and bearthe credit-riskon the SPDF funds that they providefor eligibleprivatesector renewable
energy projects. The lending spreads on these loans will be based on the creditworthinessof
the borrowers. The Fls will only provide long-term debt financing to private developers who
submit proposals which, inter alia, have fulfilled all necessary licensing requirements of the
ElectricityMarket Regulatory Authority (EMRA).
Project Processing MENR, DSI, EIE and EMRA
                         --
DSI and EIE will maintaina database of identified renewableenergy projectopportunities. The
identified project opportunities are at different stages of development        --  ranging from
reconnaissancestudy reportsto feasibilitystudy reportsprepared by DSVEIE. In addition,for the
immediate-term, there are about 400 MW of hydro electric projects, an additional 161 MW of
wind energy projects and one geothermal project (25 MW) which are fairly far advanced and
supported by individual private sector sponsors. These developers already have the resource
rights and feasibility studiesapprovedand could move for implementationprovidedthey obtain a
license from EMRA. To obtain a license from EMRA all projectswould have to conform to the
requirementsof the relevant legislation,specificallyincludingthe LicensingRegulationdefined in
accordancewith the principlesof the ElectricityMarket Law.
The Regulation issued by MENR and implemented by DSI that relates to renewable energy
development from hydro-resourcescovers the followingsteps:
(a) Procedures for the preparation, public announcement, and updating of the list of potential
    hydro-electricprojects.
(b) Procedures for private sponsors to register their project application, and then advance
    through the stages of feasibility report preparation, submission, and evaluation. Multiple
    applicationsfor a specificprojectare possible,and DSIshall review them basedon technical
    feasibility and optimal resourceutilization.
(c) Provisionof conditionalwater-use-rightsto sponsors whose feasibilitystudies are found to be
    acceptable by DSI. The sponsor(s) for the project can then apply to EMRA for a license     --
    once again there can be multiple license applicationsfor a single project. EMRA will select
    between competing license applications for a single project based on criteria that include:
    increasing competition; level of sponsor preparedness and experience; local participation;
    preference to those who sell directly to eligible consumers (rather than requiring EMRA to
    oblige retailers/ distributors to purchase the power); as well as DSI comments on the
    feasibility report.
(d) Issuance of final water-use rights. A model Water-Use Agreement is attached to the
    Regulation, which will be the basis for finalizing the water-use-right between DSI and the
    sponsor.
Forthe case of wind energy projectsthe sponsor proceeds directlyto EMRAto obtain a license.
Special Procedures Applicable for Renewable Energy Sponsors HavingBOT Contracts
Private sponsors having contracts to build renewable energy generation facilities based on the
BOT model, but where all the contract conditionsare not completed,would be eligibleto apply to
TSKB and TKB for financing upon: (a) being eligible for a generation license by the EMRA
Board; and (b) notifying MENR and EMRA in writing that they forfeit those rights that are
contrary to the marketstructureforeseenin Law No. 4628. To actuallyobtainfinancingfrom the
Special Purpose Debt Facility they must also fulfill all the conditions and criteria set forth by
TSKB and TKB for the facility.




                                          - 13-

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection:
       The objective was to find an economically efficient mechanismfor providingWorld Bank support
       to initiate the private development of renewable energy with the right economic, financial and
       commercial incentives. The main project design issue was the choice of a suitable mechanism
       for the World Bank to help overcome the long-termfinancing impedimentfor private developers,
       in order to assist the Government with increasing privately owned electricity generation from
       renewableresources,without requiringthe governmentto underwritemarket risk.
       It is useful to emphasize that Turkey has, to its credit, fewer design issues to be addressed in
       the context of renewable energy development, than have been faced in other countries         --for
       example:
       -    private sector skills and capacity     -  which has been an issue in Sri Lanka, Indonesia,
            China, and Uganda is not an issue in Turkey    -- Turkey has several private sector companies
            who have the skills, financial capacity, and experience to develop and operate renewable
            energy generationprojects;and
       -    project investment and credit appraisal skills of potential financial intermediaries
            which is an issue in countries such as Uganda, and Indonesiais not a key issue in Turkey   ----
            Turkey has a number of development and commercial banks that have built capacity in
            investment and credit appraisal situations (e.9. Akbank, TSKB, TKB). Hence the principal
            focus in project design is to implement an efficient mechanism to channel World Bank
            resourcesto private sector led projects.
       Based on experienceto-date, there are typically three alternative structures to channel financial
       resources to renewables projects.
       1. using an existing Government entity, such as the Ministry of Finance, sectoral
            line-ministry,or power utility to channel the funds to individual projects-- thisapproach has
            (and is) being used in China, Uganda, Vietnam. and elsewhere;
       2. creating a new public agency with the necessary skilled personnel and procedures to
            channel funds to projects  -- this approach has been used in China, India (Ireda), Romania;
            and
       3. utilizing established financial institutions (private and/or public) with adequate skills and
            capacityto channel funds to individualprojects (for example, Sri Lanka).
       The first option of using an existing government entity and the second option of creating a new
       government entity both run contrary to a major goal of the broader economic reforms in Turkey,
       as well as the power sector reforms, which is to shift as much of the responsibility and decision
       making as possible to the private sector. Moreover the existing government entities all have
       various issues associatedwith them including in some cases poor track records, inadequate staff
       to undertakethe job and inabilityto obtainadditionalstaff, or not fully qualified staff.
       It was therefore decided that the best approach is to channel the World Bank funds to private
       sector projectsthrough qualified financial institutions, such as the Turkish IndustrialDevelopment
       Bank (TSKB), and the Turkish Development Bank (TKB). TSKB has considerable relevant
       experience in financing investments, project selection, the energy sector and Bank Projects. It
       was originally establishedwith assistance from the Bank and has been used successfully by the
       Bank as a financial intermediary. It would receive $150 Million from the SPDF. TKB is smaller
       and government owned but performs the same role as TSKB. It would receive$50 Million.




                                                  -14-

2. Major related projects financed bythe Bank and/or other developmentagencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                              Project                   IPSRI Ratings
                                                                           (Bank-fi'nank projectsonly)
                                                                           Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                               Progress(IP)    Objective(DO)

Reform strategy definition; Sector         Turkey  - TEK Restructuring           S               S
infrastructure development.                Project (completed)

Infrastructure creation; Reform            Turkey National Transmission
                                                   -                             S               S
implementation support.                    GridProject (on-going)

Support export expansion, medium and Turkey        - ExportFinance               S               S
Long-term credit.                          Intermediation Loan(closed)

Private sector gridandoff-grid             Indonesia- RenewableEnergy            U               U
renewable energyprojects.                  Small Power Project
                                           (completed)

Private sector gridandoff-grid             Sri Lanka Energy Services
                                                      -                         HS              HS
renewable energy projects.                 Delivery Project (completed)

Support export expansion; Improve          Turkey Industrial Export
                                                   -
credit delivery systems; mediumand         Development Project (closed)
long-term credit.

Support export expansion; improve          Turkey - SecondSmall/Medium           S               S
credit delivery systems; mediumand         IndustryProject




3. Lessonslearned and reflected in the project design:
1.      Lessonsfrom RenewableEnergyDevelopmentProjects
        The proposed Renewable Energy Project takes into account the lessons learned from the
        implementation of similar IDA and IBRD financed renewable power generation projects in
        Indonesia, Sri Lanka and India (Indonesia Renewable Energy Small Power Project, Sri Lanka
        Energy Services Delivery Project, India Renewable Resources Development Project). The main
        lesson are:
        (a) Governments need to set up and transparently apply a set of clear policies and regulations
            that would provide predictabilityon tariff-settingfor power supply transactions between local
            distribution utilitiesand private power developers.
        (b) To move beyond "one-of-a-kind" demonstration projects and/or pilot projects for
            grid-connected renewable power generation projects, it is prudent to provide support to



                                                    - 1 5 -

            countries through a strategic mix of investmentand TA instruments,focusing on the financial
            intermediation for private developers but also on local capacity building and pre-investment
            activitiesto ensure sustainability of developmentaloutcomes.
       (c) Timely development of a pipeline of prospective renewable power generation projects (Le.,
            identification and pre-feasibility studies) facilitates implementation efforts by financial
            intermediaries and sustains the interest of private developers who might otherwise opt to
            pursuealternative investmentopportunities.
       (d) The interest of local financial institutions to serve as promoters and intermediaries to retail
            IDA and IBRDfinancing can best be sustained if commercial business practicesare adopted
            for procurement and the processes adopted for disbursement of funds is streamlined to the
            extentfeasible.
       (e) Long-term commitment by financial intermediaries, the Government and regulatory,entities
            is required to sustain the interest of private power developers and thereby mainstream
            renewable powergenerationinitiatives,as comparedto conventionaloptions.
2.     Lessonsfrom FinancialIntermediationProjects
       The proposed Renewable Energy Project design takes into account lessons learnt in financial
       intermediation operations -- both in renewable energy and in other forms of financial
       intermediation projects. The main lessonsare that:
       (a) It is far from ideal to have a government entity act as in an "apex" capacity, as such entities
            generally do not have the skills, in-house systems (financial, accounting, etc) and    --
            importantly -- financial incentivesto proactively pursue successful project implementation.
                                                                                                     most

       (b) The design should be kept as flexible as possible, with a minimum number of restrictions in
            terms of minimum loan or sub-loan size, maturity, currency denomination, cofinancing
            requirements, etc. The was clear from the experience with the Turkey Industrial Export
                                                                                         -
            DevelopmentProject, and the Turkey Second SmaWMedium Industry Project.
       (c) Only strong and committed local financial institutionsshould be selectedto participate in the
            project.
       (d) It is necessary to ensure quality at entry and closely monitor the performance of private
            developersin the Bank supported portfolio.
       (e) Private power developers should be required to put up a reasonable amount of equity
            towards each proposalto be supported by Bank funds. Fhe project design requires at least
            25% of sponsor equity in the financing   -- thepractice in Turkey is normallyto have in excess
            of 30%)


4. Indicationsofborrower commitmentand ownership:
       The Government has repeatedly asked the Bank to finance this project. The Government
       strongly believesthat Turkey has great potentialto producepower from renewableresourcesand
       that the market oriented reforms of the sector are making development of these resources more
       difficult. This view was held by the old Government and is also held by the new Government.
       In particularthe new Government has publicly stated that its objectives in the energy sector are
       to: (i) continue the liberalization of the energy sector in order to create a competitive energy
       environment; (ii) develop Turkey's role as an East-West Energy Corridor; (iii) give priority to
       national energy resources; (iv) ensure the development of fuels in the framework of an
       environmentallyresponsible, sustainable development approach; and (v) put more emphasis on
       new technologies. The project will help meet four of these objectives including assisting with
       liberalization. In fact the only objective it does not assist with, is development of Turkey as an
       East-WestEnergy Corridor.




                                                   -16-

5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
      The World Bank project will assist the Government of Turkey in establishing a comprehensive
      framework for renewablesdevelopment,and a crediblefinancial intermediationmechanism,that
      will enable Turkey to attract grant, concessional and bilateral sources of funds for renewable
       energy resourcedevelopment.
      The Bank will also assist Turkey with the development of its renewable energy policy and
       legislationand ensure that these are coordinatedwith its energy and electricity policy in general.
      The Bank has considerable experience with renewable energy projects in other countries as
      discussedabove, and also in electricity sector restructuring. Bank involvementwill increase the
       likelihoodof the country implementingan effective approach to renewableenergy development,
      consistentwith the new competitiveelectricitymarketwhich is now being introduced.
       Bilateraldonors, including KFW, have been contactedand have shown interest in the financing
       initiative. The EU might provide additional sources of funding and/or technical assistance. The
      successfulimplementationof the financing intermediationmechanismand the associated credit
      appraisal, fiduciary and other safeguards will definitely give other donors increased comfort in
      contributingto renewableenergy development in Turkey. Thus the World Bank project will play
      an key development role in helping Turkey mobilize such additional sources of financing and
      technical assistance.
      Another possible source of funds is the GEF which Turkey should soon become eligible for.
      Turkey has recently signed the UNFCCC as an Annex I country, and this signing has very
       recently been ratified by Parliament. Turkey should now be eligible for GEF funding to reduce
      the impact of climate change, such as removing barriers to the implementation of renewable
       energy projects. The issue has been discussed with GEF and a proposal will be made to it
       asking for funds to help implement the project or to help subsidize the development of wind
       power which is probably not economic currently but can probably become so. The Prototype
       Carbon Fund (PCF) has also been approached but they cannot provide funding unless Turkey
       ratifiesthe Kyoto Protocol.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see h e x 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit        NPV=USS5.5million; ERR=20 % (see Annex 4)
0Costeffectiveness
0Other(specify)

      As it is not yet completely certain what projects will actually be financed from the Renewable
       Energy Loan, two potentialprojects (Mugla 10.95 MW; Aydin 8.9 MW) and a typical composite
       case (20 MW) were used to do the economic analysis. These are discussedin detail in Annex 4.
      They all have high economic and financial rates of return. Basically they are attractive small
       hydropower projectswhich could not easily be developed in the past, because financing for the
       private investorswas largely lacking and DSI was not much interested in small projects. (The
       ERR above is for the Mugla projectwith the other two projects having ERRSof 23% and 19%).

      A conservative approachwas taken for the economic analysis where the value of the electricity
      output of each privatelydevelopedprojectwas takento be the cost to localelectricitydistributors
      of purchasing wholesale electricity from the Turkish Electricity Market. (Rather than for
      example some estimateof the value of the electricity to retail customers,which would be much
      higherthan its wholesale price, and greatly increasethe economic rate of return on the project.)
       In addition, for the economic analysis (but not the financial analysis) a small supplementary
      value for the electricity is attributed to the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions which would
      occur with the replacement of power generated from fossil fuels by power from renewable
      resources. However, this lattervalue is small and has only a very limited impact on the results.



                                                  - 1 7 -

       In practice, since the Government does not intend to offer any subsidies and/or financial
       incentives to the private power developers other than resources to be obtained from the SPDF,
       the projects selected for financing will of necessity be among the least cost supply options
       availableto the local distributors.

       The projects are economically and financially robust. For the Mugla project, for example, the
       switching values for the critical project variables (Le. the deviation from the base case which
       would yield an ERR of 10%) are:
                81% increase in investmentcost
                45% decrease in capacity factor
                34% decrease in electricityprice (from 5.0 cents/kWhto 3.3 cents/kWh)
       Also in practice, the procedure to be followed for selection of individualprojects will include case
       by case review of available feasibility studies for the initial portfolio of candidate projects. Those
       proposals would be examined to ensure that the relevant economic design criteria are being
       applied to achieve "maximum annual energy productivity" based on a least cost configuration for
       each project. Such a screening approach is necessary to avoid the general tendency towards
       "over-design" of small-hydro facilities, since the goal should not be one of maximizing installed
       power generation capacity, but rather one of maximizingthe annual number of kilowatt-hours of
       electricity producedfor a given cost, water availability and flow characteristics.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$3.4million; FRR= 17% (see Annex4)

       The three projects analysed are financially attractive with high FRRs. The FRR and NPV above
       is for the Mugla project with the other two projects having FRRs of 20% and 16%.
        The financial viability and bankability of renewable energy generation projects will depend on
       the allocation of exchange rate, market, revenue, wind/hydrological, and other risks to the most
       suitable party in linewith a good structure of risk allocation. This is discussed below.
       (a) Exchange rate risk would be borne by private project sponsors           --Le. the debt provided to
           the private sponsor by the financial intermediary (FI) would be denominated in foreign
           exchange. The project agreementswill probably not prohibitthe Fls providingloans in local
           currencyto matchthe localcurrency revenuesearned by the project company. However, this
           would shift much of the exchange risk to the Fls which they have indicated they would be
           very loath to accept. The project sponsors are willing to accept the exchange rate risk as
           the practice in Turkey is to index wholesale and retail electricity prices to exchange rate
           movements.
       (b) Market risk would be shared betweenthe purchaser (eligible consumer and/or retailer) and
           the project sponsor.      For sales to eligible (free) consumers (likely to be industries and
           commercial users) the arrangement between the project sponsor and purchaser would be a
           purely bilateral contract. For sales to a retailer, there are two possibilities, either the retailer
           (as an eligible consumer) enters into a purely bilateral purchase arrangement with the
           generator, or the regulatory framework requires the purchase of renewable energy at below
           the prevailingallowable wholesale energy pass-throughprice.
       (c) WindlHydrological risk would be borne by the project sponsor who will develop the project.
           The incentive would be for the project sponsor to undertake the necessary due diligence in
           preparingthe detailedfeasibility report and justifying the project financially to its financiers.
       As noted in the summary discussion on the economic analyses (Section E.1. above) the
       switching values indicate that the projects are financially quite robust and have a high risk
       tolerancefor movement in market prices and capacity factor (Le. wind/hydrology).



                                                  -18-

        Project sponsors are also able to obtain attractive tax benefitsfrom these projects. Apart from
        exemptions on import duties, the sponsors are also able to benefit from a investment tax
        allowance of up to 40% of the investment cost. The investmenttax allowance permits them to
        shield net incomefrom taxes upto the allowablepercentage of investmentcosts.


Fiscal Impact:
       The fiscal impactof the projectswill be small. There will be no subsidiesfor the projects. There is
        expected to be a VAT exemption on machinery and equipment expenditures based on the
        sponsor obtaining an investmentcertificate from Treasury. Due to the investmenttax allowance
        they will typically not pay taxes until after about 5 years of operation. However, since they are
        quite profitable, once they start to pay taxes they will pay a substantialpart of their revenue in
        taxes assumingthat current tax laws remainunchanged.


3. Technical:
        Small-Hydro Projects:        As described in Annex 11, over 70% of the small-hydro project
        potential is based on irrigation canals and uses existing water conveyance facilities. Of the
        remaining sub-projects many use existing irrigation dams, and only a small number are what
        may be considered greenfield hydro projects.
        geologicalrisk  --                                  Therefore, the principal technical risk  -- the
                           is largelyabsent.

        In the few instancesthat purely greenfield projects are developed and new dams are required,
        the dams are likely to be relatively small and any underground works very limited. Again,
        therefore, geological risks could be considered to be minor.       Some of these dams may be
        classified as "large dams" according to the ICOLD definition (see section 7.2 below). Safety
        panels of expertswould be established for these dams to review all aspects of dam construction
        and operation.

        The electro-mechanical technologies associated with these small-hydro projects, such as
        hydraulicturbines,valves, gates, electricalgenerators,are all maturetechnologies.

        Wind Projects: The technologies associatedwith wind projects are also well established and
        may be considered mature. Although innovationscontinue, there are no technical risks inherent
        to wind projects.

        Geothermal Projects: The technologiesand projectconfigurationsused to produceelectricity
        from geothermal projectsdepend on the natureof the resource(temperature, waterhteam purity)
        and site conditions (geology).      The technical feasibility studies for a 25 MW geothermal
        electricity projectwill be evaluatedduring implementation.

4. Institutional:
        Selection of FinancialIntermediaries (Fls)
        Annex 13, provides a detailed assessment of the eligibility of the two Fls (TSKB and TKB) in
        accordance with the World Bank's ECA Regional Guidelines for Financial Intermediary
        Operations.
        TSKB and TKB were selected basedon their ability to meet certaincriteriawhich include:
            (a) Their status as "Development Banks".        Legally this qualifies them for on-lendingfrom
                 the TurkishTreasury.
            (b) Compliance with minimum BIS risk weighted Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)           --(10% at
                 least)
                         TSKB's      CAR on a consolidated basis was 22.17% at end-2001. As of


                                                    - 19-

                   end-September 2002, TSKB's inflationadjustedsolo CAR was 22.75%.
               -   TKB's regulatoryCAR was 77.11% at end-2001, whereas its Tier ICAR was
                   55.77%. The bank's high capital is somewhat offset by substantial non-performing
                   loans, neverthelesscapital adequacy reducesonly to 67% when existing NPLs are
                   reserved 100%. As of end-September 2002, TKB's CAR was 83%.
               The prudentialregulationsset by the Turkish BankingRegulatoryand Supervisory
               Agency (BRSA) calls for a minimum CAR of 8% and TKB and TSKB are far above that.
           (c) Total assets for each FI exceed US$200 million.
           (d) Uninterruptedprofitablityfrom 2000 onwards.
           (e) Review of their capacity and track record on investment appraisal and lending to
               infrastructureand energy projects.
      Both TSKB and TKB are within the limits set by the prudential requirements of BRSA with
      regard to their single and connected client exposure and foreign currency exposure. Their
      exposure in the form of equity holdings or participation in non-financial entities are also safely
      within the legal limits as defined in the Bankinglaw and applicable BRSA regulations.
4.1 Executingagencies:
      FinancialIntermediaries(TSKB and TKB) Special Purpose Debt Facilityfor
                                                        --
      RenewableGeneration Financing
      The Financial Intermediaries TSKB and TKB will be the executing agencies for the SPDF and
      will process loans to private sponsors for eligible renewable energy generation projects, and
      monitor the implementation of these projects.            Both TSKB and TKB are experienced
      developmentbanks and have undertaken investment lending inthe energy sector.
      TSKB, a privately owned development bank, has substantial experience in implementingWorld
      Bank-funded projects. TSKB has successfully managed these types of loans and is well
      positioned to undertakethis assignment. TKB, although working for the first time with the Bank,
      is also a public development bank experienced in project financing, especially for medium-sized
      investments. TSKB has managed an EIB facility for energy sector lending, and also has a team
      of analystswho follow the energy industryand understandthe sectoral risks.
      TKB has not worked with the bank before, and although TKB is a financial institution with
      adequate institutional capacity in managing the implementation of this project, TKB will have to

      than the criteriathat the TKB has hithertoapplied in its own lending .
      come up along a significant learning curve, especially in using criteria that are more stringent

      Both TSKB's and TKB's project management capacity is satisfactory and proven. Both TSKB
      and TKB have appraisal and credit review procedures that are based on sound investment
      lending practices.    There are no major issues or potential problems foreseen in their ability to
      execute the investmentlendingfor the project.       Both banks have qualified personnel, adequate
      internal procedures and guidelines.
      Both TSKB and TKB have engineering departments whose staff, inter alia, ensure that the
      projects financed are technically feasible and in compliance with environmental regulations and
      other applicable licensing and permitting requirements.
      exclusively on energy projects   --                           These staff members do not focus
                                          but rather all investment lending undertaken by the Fls. The
      TSKB and TKB engineering departments are well aware of their specific safeguard
      implementation responsibilities under the Renewable Energy Project. They may hire specialist
      consultants/firmsto assist with issues requiring such attention. Operation Manuals specifically
      preparedfor this project by each bank will be usefultools for the managementof the projecVloan
      and provide implementationstandards for the banks, in their interactionwith the Bank.
      An issue that was discussed in some detail during project preparation was that both TSKB and
      TKB tend to take fairly conservative corporate lending positions which require high levels of


                                                 - 20 -

       sponsor collateral. An assessment was made of the possibility to institute some elements of
       limited recourse project financing for renewable projects, with the objective of reducing the
       collateral requirements.    It was decided that the pragmatic approach would be for the Fls,
       particularly their own credit review committees,to become comfortable with the risks of these
       projectsand then to graduallyencourage the Fls to reduce their collateraldemands.
       MENR, DSI and EIE for Project PipelineDevelopment and Monitoring
                             --
       MENR and their related agencies DSI and EIE will be responsible for the execution of the
       institutional development activities that support the project. MENR will be responsible for the
       development of the Renewable Energy Law, as well as revisions to related legislation. MENR
       has in the recent past successfully drafted legislation,conducted stakeholderconsultations,and
       has implementedthe ElectricityMarket Law. MENR is clearlycapable of doing the same for the
       next phaseof legislationinthe energysector.
       DSI and EIE will take on much of the implementationresponsibilityfor work on project pipeline
       development, and the tasks associatedwith review and evaluation of project applicationsfrom
       privatesponsors, issuanceof water rights,and technicalmonitoringof implementation. DSIand
       EIE are very capable institutionswith decades of experienceand an extensive regional network
       of offices/branchesthat: undertakeresourcemeasurements over long periods; conduct detailed
       assessment of project potential; prepare investigation and feasibility studies; etc. DSI is a
       world-class organization in its ability to plan and execute complex hydraulic resource utilization
       and irrigationschemes. The staff in both DSI and EIE are extremelywell qualifiedfor the tasks
       to be undertakenduring implementation. The sole issue during projectimplementationwill befor
       both DSI and EIE to assign an adequate number of staff to work on development and
       implementationtasks.
       Private Project Sponsors
       There are an adequate number of potential private project sponsors in Turkey who have
       implemented bothsmall hydro and wind projects. Based onthe ability of these firms to develop
       and operate such projects, and the procurement capacity assessment (see Annex 6A), the
       privateprojectsponsors would be able to implement renewable energyprojects.

4.2 Project management:
       Management of the projectwill be undertakenby TSKB and TKB. In both banks, specific bank
       staff will be     in charge of Project management (including financial management) and
       implementation. There will be designated personnel who will be responsible for financial
       reporting, document controland disbursement from the specialaccount.

       In TSKB, marketingof the loan will be undertakenby the Corporate Marketing Division and the
       project appraisal will be carried out by Technical Services Division. In TKB, marketing of the
       loan will be done by the Credit Department and the project appraisal by the Project Appraisal
       Department. In both banks, marketing and project appraisal functions will be carried out by
       departments which will operate independentlyof each other. Each project proposal submitted
       to the banks will be evaluated by a team of specialistscomprised of an engineer(s), a financial
       analyst(s), and a project economist, who then prepare a project evaluation report. In TSKB,
       these project evaluation reports will be submitted to a credit committee comprised of the chief
       executive officer and the executive vice presidents. In TKB, project evaluation reports will be
       submitted to a credit committee comprised of the directors of the credit and project appraisal
       departments and the deputygeneraldirectors of the bank.

       Upon approval by the credit committees, these reports will be submitted to the boards of
       directors of each bank for approval. After the approval by the boards and signing of the
       (sub)-loan agreement, the (sub)-loan will be ready for disbursement. The first two projects of
       each bank will be sent to the World Bank for prior review. For subsequentprojects, approval by
       the Fls own Board's will be sufficient. Reportsto be sent to the Bank will be jointly prepared by



                                                  -21  -

       the Technical Services, Financial Control and the Operations Divisions in case of TSKB, and in
       case of TKB, will bejointly preparedby the ProjectAppraisal, Credit and funding departments.
4.3 Procurement issues:
       The procurement capacity assessment of the likely beneficiary enterprises was completed
       through a review of some members of the hydropower producers association (HESIAD) and the
       windpower producers association (RESIAD).            Based on this review it was decided that
       commercial practice would be used for procurement of goods contracts costing less than $ 5
       Million equivalent or civil works contracts costing less than $8 Million equivalent. Above these
       levels international competitive bidding would be used. The proceeds of the renewable energy
       loan would not finance any contract with an affiliate of the sponsor of the project. However,
       sponsors could use affiliates for construction management (not Bank financed), with the
       SPDF-Loan financing non-affiliated civil contractors or goods contracts. Prior review would apply
       to all of the stages of contractingfor ICB including biddingdocuments, bid evaluationreports and
       draft contracts. For commercial practices prior review would be undertaken for the first two
       contracts awarded. The Bank would also review yearly with TSKB and TKB their procurement
       procedures and practices and on a random basis would carry out post review for one in five
       contracts.
4.4 Financialmanagement issues:
       The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial
       managementsystem at TKB and TSKB. The current financial managementarrangementsfor the
       project at TKB and TSKB are satisfactoryto the Bank.
5. Environmental:                        Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMPpreparation (including
consultation and disclosure) andthe significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
        This project has been classified as FI. In accordance with World Bank procedures the
        Operations Manual will contain a section on Environmental Review Procedures that would
        describe documentation, consultation and disclosure requirements. This section has been
         prepared and agreed upon by the Fls and the World Bank. All sub-loansto be financed by the
        SPDF will be subject to an environmentaland resettlement review process. These process and
        requirements incorporate the Republic of Turkey's regulatory requirements for Environmental
         Review (Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) published in Official Gazette
         No: 24777 and dated June 6th, 2002, as supplemented by Article 10 of EnvironmentalAct No:
        2872 dated August 9th, 1983) and World Bank safeguard policies. In particular,the policies on
         EnvironmentalAssessment (OP4.01) and Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12).
        Since it is an FI loan, specific environmental issues are not known a priori, but are generally
        believed to be small, as related to small facilities that are built as "run-of-river" facilities or
        schemesthat utilize existing hydraulicfacilities (irrigationcanals, existingdams).

5.2 What are the mainfeatures o f the EMP andare they adequate?
       The EMP will follow the format adopted by the ECA region, namely a: (a) mitigation plan, (b)
       monitoring plan, (c) any necessary institutional strengthening, (d) implementation schedule for

       management, and (9 recordof publicconsultation.
       mitigation and monitoring, (e) institutional arrangements for effective environmental


5.3 For Category A andBprojects, timeline andstatus o f EA:
                   Date ofreceipt o f final draft: Not Relevant since project is category
                                                   FI

5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screeningand (b) draft EA



                                                   - 22 -

report on the environmental impacts andproposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were usedandwhich groups were consulted?
        Stakeholder will be consulted in a manner consistent with World Bank policies and Turkish
        regulations and as described fully in the environmentalsection of the Fl's'Operations Manual.
        Stakeholderswill be consulted during the environmental assessments of the individual projects.
        The Ministryof Environment is chargedwith this responsibility.

                 This Environmental Review Procedures Section of the Operations Manual were
        deliveredto the lnfoshopby March loth, 2003- priorto the departure of the appraisalmission.
5.5 What mechanismshave beenestablishedto monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults ofthe E m ?
        All sub-loan agreements requiring an EMP will includea conditionfor the sub-borrower(Project
        Sponsor)to agree to implementthe EMP.

        Each individual projectwill be evaluated by DSI and the Ministryof Environmentand monitored
        as needed. Measures of the overall impact on the global environment of the whole renewable
        energy projectcan be easily developedsince the renewable electricity resultingfrom the project
        will largely replace electricity produced from fossil fuels. This renewable electricity production
        would thus have a positiveimpact on pollutionand green housegas emissions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, andspecify the project's social
development outcomes.
        The positive social impactsof the project are the benefitsthat would accrue to the populationin
        general from the reductionin pollution associated with energy productionfrom these renewable
        generationprojectsreplacinggenerationfrom fossil fuel fired power plants,whileIn    cross boundary
        benefits will result from the reduction in the emission of green house gases.         addition, it is
        expectedthat most of these renewable plantswill be hydro power plantswhich tend to be built in
        the poorer,mountainous partsof Turkey. At the marginit is these regionsthat would benefitfrom
        the employment due to construction activity as well as continuing employment from operating
        and maintainingthe plantsonce built.
        Necessary steps would be undertaken to ensure that no negative impacts arise from land
        acquisition or involutantaryresettlement. Specifically, EMRA shall not provide a "Public Benefit
        Document" for renewable energy generationfacilities that would lead to the exercise of eminent
        domain and acquisition of land for any sub-project. There are two possible conditions under
        which private sponsors may obtain landtitlehightsto develop sub-projects:


        1, Site where the generation facilities are to be constructed belongs to private persons:
        In this case, the following requirementswill be reflected in the Legal Agreements betweenthe
        Bank and the Fls and in the Operational Manuals of the Fls. These requirements shall also be
        includedin the legalagreementsthat the Fls enter intowith project sponsors:
        (a) An agreement by the owner to transfer the title and rightsto this land and/or any intangibles
             related to the land to the private sponsor, will have to be made through an agreement
             reached freely and certified by a notary public attesting to "willing-buyer", "willing-seller"
             status of the transaction.
        (b) All land must be purchased inthe open market. Sub-project sponsorswill providetitle deeds
             certifyingto the transferof ownershipof the land.
        (c) The FIwill interviewlandowners to assure that the land transfer is voluntary.
        The World Bank will review the first two projectspreparedto ensure that the land was procured


                                                   - 23 -

       through market mechanisms and that no involuntary resettlement is involved.             Subsequently,
       the Bank would also review yearly with TSKB and TKB the documentation for land acquisition
       provided by privatesponsors and on a random basis would carry out post review.


       2. Site(represented generation facilities are to be constructed belongs to Government
                  where the
                               by Ministryof PublicAuthority):
       In this case the following requirements will be reflected in the Legal Agreements between the
       Bank and the Fls and in the Operational Manuals of the Fls. These requirementsshall also be
       included inthe legal agreementsthat the Fls enter intowith project sponsors:
       (a) Since the EMRA shall not provide a "Public Benefit Document" for renewable energy
            generation facilities, the exerciseof eminent domain and acquisition of land for any
            sub-project is ruled out. However, transfer of currently held public lands with titlehightsto
            this land and/or any intangibles relatedto the land, from the governmentto the sub-project
            sponsor, may occur under applicable law relatingto transfer of public landfor projects.

       (b) Each FIwill conduct an assessmentto verify and re-affirmthat there are no secondary
            claims on the Governmentlandthat have beentransferredto the sub-project sponsors.

       The World Bank will review the first two projectsto ensure that there are no secondary claims on
       Government land acquired for the project. Subsequently, the Bank would also review yearly
       with TSKB and TKB the documentationfor land acquisition provided by private sponsors and on
       a random basis would carry out post review.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholdersparticipatinginthe project?
       The hydropower producers association (HESIAD) and the windpower producers association
       (RESIAD) have already been consulted and have made significant inputs to the project. The
       Clean Energy Foundation and the Turkish Society for the Protection of Nature were also
       consulted and their views taken into account. Individual sponsors of renewable energy projects
       were also consulted. It is expectedthat further consultationswith all of these groups will continue
       as the projectprogresses.



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration withNGOsor other civil society
organizations?
       See 6.2 above.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
       See 6.1 above.
6.5 Howwill the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?




                                                  - 24 -

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
      See above discussionon approachto environmental assessments and involuntaryresettlement.
      The other safeguardpolicythat is relevantis the safety of dams.

       1. Dam Safety. All sub-loans to be financed underthe project will be subject to the provisions
           of the World Bank Operational Policy 4.37 Safety of Dams. The Operations Manual will
           includeprocedures to be followed in relationto largedams which are summarized as follows:

           The Fl's will screen all sub-projects to be financedunder the loan, to determine whether any
           contain largedams in accordancewith the definitionsof OP 4.37: (a) dams greaterthan 15
           m in height;(b) dams greater than 10 m but less than 15m in height and havinga crest
           length greater than 500m, or a spillwaydesign dischargeof morethan 2000 m3/s, or having
           a reservooirvolume of greater than 1.O million m3; or (c) if they presentspecialdesign
           complexitiesfor example, locationin a zone of high seismicity,foundationsthat are complex
           and difficultto prepare,or retentionof toxic materials

           For sub-projectsinvolvinglargedams the Fls will requirethe sub-borrowerto:

               appointan independent panelof experts(the Panel) to reviewthe investigation,design,
               and constructionof the dam and the start of operations;
               prepareand implement detailedplans: a planfor constructionsupervisionand quality
               assurance, an instrumentation plan, an operationand maintenanceplan, and an
               emergency preparedness plan;
               prequalifybiddersfor civil works involvingdams and associatedstructures; and
               carryout periodicsafety inspectionsof the dam after completion.

           The compositionand activitiesof the independentpanelof expertsshall not precludeany
           dam supervisionactivitiesof DSI.

           For sub-projectsthat will rely on the performanceof an existingdam or a dam under
           construction(DUC) as defined in OP 4.37, the Fls will requirethe sub-borrower to appoint an
           independent expertor experts to carry out the due diligencework on the existingdam as
           defined in Paras 8 and 9 of OP 4.37.

          The Panel of expertsfor largedams shall consist of three or moreexperts, appointedby the



                                                  -25-

             sub-borrower and acceptableto the responsible FI and the World Bank, with expertisein the
            various technical fields relevant to the safetyaspectsof the particulardam.. A modelTerms
            of Referenceis included inthe OperationalManual. For convenienceof projectsponsors,
            the Fls will compiled a list of specialistswho are acceptable to the World Bank. However,
             individualsub-borrowerswill be responsible for constitutionof their own panel and are not
            confinedto the list of specialistscompiledby the Fls. All such panelmemberswill, however,
             be requiredto receivethe no objectionof the responsibleFIand theworld Bank.

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainabiiity:
        Financialsustainabilityshould be achievedowing to the regulatory certaintyachievedthrough
        the licensingand tariff framework applicableto renewableenergy projects, and the availability of
        a potential pool of financially viable projects.        Hydropower assets in particular would be
        financially quite sustainable given their low operating cost once built and the additional
        non-energybenefits they would have inthe Turkishelectricitymarket.

        Environmental sustainability is assured based on the eligibility qualifications and project
        selection process for renewable projects. Social sustainability is also assured as there will be
        no involuntaryresettlement associated with any of these projects.

        Institutional sustainability will be achieved by the establishmentof: (a) credit delivery and
        implementationsupervision mechanism under the umbrella of TSKB and TKB                 -- which should
        serve to attract other sources of financing for renewable energy projects; and (b) institutional
        capacity and processes within the Government to continue the identification of attractive
        renewable energy projects.

2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                          Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
FromOutputsto Objective
The Energy Market Regulatory Authority                  M          On-going dialogue with the Government to
(EMRA)performs its functions efficientlj                           ensure the regulatory independenceo fEMRA.
andmaintains regulatory certainty and                              This dialogue is part o f the overall World Bank
stability. Specifically EMRA should                                support to Turkey.
process license applications efficiently,
and ensure that retailers buy from                                 Continued assistance indeveloping and
renewable energy suppliers who can sell                            implementing a regulatory framework that is
at or below the wholesale marketprice.                             consistentwith achieving regulatory certainty
                                                                   andstability.

Availability o f economically and                       M          A reasonablenumber o fpotentialprojects have
financially attractive renewableenergy                             been identifiedthat will be able to meet the
projects.                                                          market-basedcommercial tests o f financial and
                                                                   economic viability. The institutional
                                                                   developmentactivities that will be undertaken
                                                                   will firher enhance existingcapabilities o fDSI
                                                                   andEIEinidentifyingnewprojects.
From Componentsto Outputs
Willingness and risk appetite o fFinancial              M          TSKB and TKB have assessed the market and
Intermediaries (TSKB and TKB) to use                               the potentialprivate sponsors o frenewable



                                                      - 26 -

 SPDF funds for lendingto eligible                           energyprojects andare comfortable with the
renewable energy projects whde taking                        commercial andcredit risks. The clarification
Icommercial  risks.                                          of the regulatory framework andthe available
                                                             project potential have been key inreducing these  I
                                                             risks.

Willingness ofretailers to purchaseenergy         M          Eh4RAhas issuedan amendmentto its licensing
 onlongterm contracts from renewable                         regulations requiringthat retailers purchase
 energy generators, given their small size                   electricity from small renewable energy
                                                             generators as long as it is at or below the market
                                                             price.
 Overall Risk Rating                              M



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
         None havebeen identified.

G. Main Loanconditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
         1. Executionof the SubsidiaryLoanAgreements (on-lendingagreements) between: (a) the
            Undersecretariatof Treasury and TSKB; and (b) the Undersecretariatof Treasury and TKB.
         2. The OperationsManuals of bothTSKB and TKB are formally adoptedby their respective
            Boards of Directors.
         3. Satisfactorylegal opinionson the legalagreements havebeen received.


2. Other [classifyaccordingto covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]
Processingof Eligible Projects

         1. The first two projects financed by TKB and TSKB shall be subject to prior review by the
            World Bank. This review will include ensuring that: (a) no involuntary resettlementwould
            occur; (b) procurement contracts are awarded in conformitywith the agreed procedures and
            Bank Guidelines; (c) environmental assessments are being carried out according to the
            agreed procedures; and (d) the procedures in the operationalmanualsare beingfollowed.

         2. TSKB and TKB will provide FinancialManagement Reports satisfactory to the World Bank
            as well as auditedfinancialstatements.

         3. Provisionsof Dam Safety OP 4.37 are followed in all cases where large dams are involved.


         4. The SPDFwill not be used to financeany projectinvolving involuntaryresettlement.

FinancialCovenants
         1. Annual IAS basedaudit of the TKB's and TSKB's financial statements.
         2. Annual IAS basedaudit of the projectfinancialstatementsat TKB and TSKB.



                                                - 27 -

            TKB and TSKB shall maintain a minimum risk-weightedcapital adequacy ratio (as defined
             by the Baste Capital Accord) of eight percent (8%).
            TKB and TSKB shall insurethat net incomefor each fiscal year, when added to provisionfor
             losses and loan collection and interest and other charges on debt, adjusted for incometaxes
            shall be at least 1.1 times maximum debt service requirements.
            TSKB and TKB shall maintain a collectionratio of not lessthan 85%.


H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear's activitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestart
        o fproject implementation.
El1.b)Notapplicable.

02. Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
      project implementation.
   3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraisedand found to be realistic ando f satisfactory
      quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
   2. The following exceptionsto Bankpolicies are recommendedfor approval. The project complies with
      all other applicable Bank policies.




                                         Henk Busz                              Andrew Vorkink
                                         Sector ManagedDirector                 Country ManagerlDirector




                                                   -28-

                                         Annex 1: Project DesignSummary
                                        TURKEY: RenewableEnergy Project



Sector-relatedCAS Goal:            Sector indicators:                   Sector1country reports:             (fromGoal to Bank Mission)
Increasedprivate sector investment Adequate newprivateinvestmentin      \nnualsector statistics and reports Govemment and Regulator maintain
in generationwithout govemment     generationto meetdemand.             ireparedby MENRand EMRA.            an attractive economic and
guaranteesandwith low                                                                                       regulatoryenvironmentfor private
environmentalimpact.                                                                                        electricity investors.




ProjectDevelopment                 Outcome I Impact                     'roject reports:                    (fromObjectiveto Goal)
0bjective:                         Indicators:
The project objective is to        (a) Increaseinamount of electricity  rnnualsector statistics and reports Government remains committedto
increaseprivatelyowned and         producedfrom privatelyowned          ireparedby MENR and EMRA.          the objectiveof increasing
operateddistributed power          renewablegenerationfacilities                                           generationfrom renewableenergy
generationfrom renewable sources, under normalhydraulicand wind                                             sourcesin Turkey andthe
withoutthe needfor government      conditions.                                                              implementation of the Electricity
guarantees, within the             [Measuredin GWh per year.]                                               Market Law.
market-basedframework of the new
Turkish Electricity Market Law.    Base                                                                     Regulator (EMRA) ensures
                                   Year 2002           1.490 GWh                                            adequate clarity and certainty of the
                                   Targets:                                                                 regulations and applies them fairly
                                            2006       2,040 GWh                                           and objectively.
                                            2007       2,590 GWh
                                            2008       3,140 GWh
                                            2009       3,690 GWh

                                   (b) Increasein generationcapacity
                                   of privatelyowned renewable
                                   generationfacilities.

                                   Base
                                   Year     2002       348MW
                                   Targets
                                            2006       473MW
                                            2007       598MW
                                            2008       723 MW
                                            2009       848 MW

                                   (c) Annual decrease in carbon
                                   dioxide emissions in metric tons as
                                   a resultof renewableenergy
                                   generation.( First year assumes
                                   renewablesreplacelignite, later
                                   years they replacenaturalgas)
                                            2006       -550,000 tons
                                            2007       -466,000 tons
                                            2008       -700,000 tons
                                            2009       -932,000 tons




                                                                  - 29 -

                                                                        'roject reports:                 (from Outputs to Objective)


                                                                        I.1& 1.2 FinancialManagement    The EnergyMarketRegulatory
                                                                        teports and Progress Reportsfrom Authority (EMRA) performs its
                                                                        3KB and TKB.                     functions efficiently and maintains
                                    of capitalraised from non-WB                                         regulatorycertaintyand stability.
                                    sources for every WB dollar.        '.3 Reportsfrom lending          Specifically EMRAshould process
                                                                        istitutions and MENR onthe       license applications efficiently, and
                                    1.3 Increasein pool of long-term    lrowthof long-term credit and    ensures that retailers buyfrom
                                    financingfor renewableenergy        lrantsfor renewableenergy        renewableenergy supplierswho car
                                                                        irojects.                        sell at belowthewholesale market
                                                                                                         price.

                                                                                                        Availability of economicallyand
                                                                                                         financiallyattractiverenewable
                                                                                                         energy projects.




                                                                        'roject reports:                 (from Componentsto
Sub-components:                     component)                                                           Outputs)
                                                                         On-lending agreementbetween     Willingness and risk appetiteof
(SPDF): To establisha term                                              rreasuwand the Financial         Financial Intermediaries(TSKB and
lendingfacilityto leverage private                                      ntermediaries.                   TKB) to use SPDF funds.for
sector equity investment,export                                                                          lendingto eligible renewableenergy
credit financing and other forms of                                                                      projectswhile taking commercial
localdebt financingfor qualified                                                                         risks.
renewablegeneration projects.




                                                                   - 30 -

                                 Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                                  TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project

By Component:

Project Component1 US$SOO.OO million
                        -

Special Purpose Debt Facility(SPDF)for renewablegenerationfinancing:
         Total investment in renewable energy generation financing under the project is expected to be
around $500 million which would include equity financing from the private sponsors, debt financing from
export credit agencies, the World Bank Special Purpose Debt Facility (SPDF) as well as commercial
banks.
financialThe   SPDF is a term lending facility which will be established and will be operated by two
          intermediaries (Fls). The two Fls selected are:

         (a)      Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi(TSKB)           -- theTurkish IndustrialDevelopmentBank

         (b)      Turkiye KalkinmaBankasi(TKB)            -- theTurkish Development Bank
         The World Bank loan for the SPDF will be on-lent from Treasury (the Borrower)to the Fls. The
Fls will utilize the SPDF to provide long-term debt financing to private sponsors of renewable energy
projects. The SPDF is intended to leverage equity investment from local private developers, export
credit financing and other providers of local debt financing for the constructionand operation of qualified
renewable generation projects.
         The two Fls have been selected based on their financial strength, their capacity to appraise and
supervise project implementation, and also the ability of the Turkish Treasury to on-lend public funds to
these agencies.
Key Featuresof the SPDF
         (a) Choice of Loan Instrument: An IBRD Fixed Spread Loan with Repayment Schedules
              Linked to Actual Disbursementshas been chosen. The main advantage of this instrument is
              that all disbursements in a given semester will have their own repayment schedule. This
              allows the Fls to better link the IBRD loan repaymentsto the repaymentsof the sub-loans by
              the sponsors.      It also offers them the ability to offer reasonable grace periods for all
              sub-loanseven if disbursementsoccur in later years.
         (b) Allocation of Loan Amount to the Fls: In recognition of Treasury's preference to agree
              on an ex-ante allocation of the loan amount to the two Fls, in order to clarify both
              responsibility for commitment charges and also simplify the initial on-lending agreements
              between Treasury and the Fls, it was tentatively agreed that the proposed 200 million USD
              would be allocated as follows:
               --  50 million USD to TKB
                   150 million USD to TSKB
         (c) Disbursement: Four meansof makingdisbursementswould be accepted.These are: 1)
              the Fls will send the disbursementrequestsfor eligible expenditures of sub-loansdirectly to
              IBRDfor payment; 2) disbursementswill be made from the special accounts; 3) the Bank
              could reimbursethe Fls for eligibleexpenditures; 4) special commitment letterswould be
              providedfor letters of credit. It is anticipated that most of the disbursementswill be from the
              special accounts.
         (d) Subsidiary LoanAgreements between Undersecretariatof Treasury and the Fls: The
              IBRDrenewableenergy loanto Treasury shall be on-lent to the Fls on a back-to-backbasis
              (Le. with the same repaymentterms) and denominated in US Dollars. An additional



                                                       - 31 -

   one-time fee as per Law 4749 (Public Financeand Debt Management) will be charged.
(e) Sponsor Eligibility: BeneficiaryEnterprisesborrowingfrom the Fls will be enterpriseswith
   morethan 50% privateownershipthat will be undertaking investmentsto generate electricity
   from renewable resourcesas defined in EMRA's LicensingRegulation. Perthe
   Environmental ImpactAssessment Regulation,this would include hydro-electric projects that
   are below all of the following thresholds: (a) 50 MW installed capacity; (b) reservoir area
   below 15sq. km; and, (c) reservoir storage volume of less than 100 millioncubic meters.
   The 50 MW size limit would also makethese projects qualifyfor connection to the 34.5 kV
   network under the existing Grid Code. In addition, the grid connectionfacilitiesto the 34.5
   kV networkand connectioninfrastructurewould also require only a simplified EIA as per the
   EnvironmentalImpactAssessment Regulation.
(9 Project Eligibility: Apart from complyingwith the definitionof "generationfacilities based
   on renewableresources"in EMRA's LicensingRegulation       -- (see above). The project will
   meet the following conditions:
   --  Minimum25% sponsor equity financing.
       Minimum debt coverage ratio of 1.2 calculated on a three year moving average after
   --  completionof the investmentand throughout the life of the loan.
       Financial rate of return of at least 10 percent.
       Certification from the relevant local or national authorities that the proposed project
       meets all environmental laws and regulations in force in Turkey, as well as the World
   -   Bank policyon environmentalassessment (defined in the Operational Manual).
       Eligibleprojectswould be built on river basins agreed in the project agreements between
   -   TKB, TSKB and the Bank.
       Projects involving involuntary resettlement are not eligible for financing from the SPDF
   -   facility.
       Compliancewith the World Bank procurement proceduresfor the procurement of goods
       and civil works to be financed under the SPDF sub-loans.

(9)    Sub-Loan and FinancialLeaseTerms and Conditions:
   -   Sub-loans will be made for the financing of plant and equipment, goods and civil works
      for investment purposes (where applicable sub-loans can be extended as a leasing
   -  facility). Financialleaseswill be for equipment only.
       Sub-loans extended to beneficiary enterprises will have a minimum total maturity of 6
      years with a minimum grace period of 2 years. Financial leases will be for a minimum
   -  duration of 6 years.
      The SPDF facility can finance up to 50% of the investment cost. The aggregate amount
       of sub-loan or financial leases to a single sub-project cannot exceed USD 20 million.
      Total aggregate value of multiple sub-loans or financial leases (from TSKB and TKB)
   -   made to any Beneficiary Enterpriseand its affiliates shall not exceed USD 40 million.
       Sub-loans will be evaluated in accordance with the Fl's regular project and credit
      evaluation guidelines and will include (where applicable) criteria in the Guidelines for
   -  Sub-loan/EligibleProject Evaluationspecified in Section V of the Operational Manual.
      Sub-loans will be denominated in USD; the foreign exchange risk will be borne by the
   -  beneficiaryenterprise.
      Sub-loan pricing will be determined by the Fls based on the risks of the particular
      beneficiaryenterprise and eligible project being financed  -- The  spread is expected to be
   -  no greaterthan 300-350bp for the riskier projects/sponsorswith tight debt service ratios.
      Inthe case where the beneficiary enterprise seeks funds from both of the Fls, the Fls will
      ensure that the combined funds provided to any single project from the SPDF does not
   -- exceed USD 20 million.
      The first two sub-loansof each FI are subject to prior review by the IBRD.
      No expenditures for a project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
   -  SPDF if such expendituresshall have been made earlier than June 30,2003.
      SPDF sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the FI shall obtain, from the


                                           - 32 -

                beneficiaryenterprisethrough appropriate legal means (a SPDF Sub-LoanAgreement),
                rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Undersecretariatof Turkish
               Treasury, and the World Bank includingthe rightto:
                    -    require the beneficiaryenterprise to carry out and operate the facilities with due
                         diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
                    -    managerialstandards and to maintainadequate records;
                         require: (i) that the goods and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of
                         the sub-loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisionsdefined in the
                         Operational Manual (see Annex 6 for a discussion of these provisions);and (ii)
                         that such goods and civil works shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
                    -    approvedeligibleprojects;
                         inspect, by itself or jointly with representativesof the World Bank, if the World
                         Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, civil works, plants and
                    -    construction,the operationthereof,and any relevantrecordsand documents;
                         require that: (i) the beneficiary enterprise shall take out and maintain with
                         responsible insurerssuch insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
                         shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation
                         upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the
                         acquisition,transportationand delivery of the goods and civil works financed out
                         of the proceeds of the sub-loan to the placeof use or installation,any indemnity
                         thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the beneficiary
                    -    enterpriseto replaceor repair such goods and civil works;
                         obtain all such informationas the World Bank shall reasonably request relating
                         to the foregoing and to the administration,operations and financial condition of
                         the beneficiary enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the eligible
                    -    sub-project; and
                         suspendor terminate the right of the beneficiaryenterpriseto use the proceeds
                         of the sub-loan upon failure by such enterpriseto perform its obligations under
                         its sub-loanAgreement.


Potential Project Pipeline 2004 and 2005
                             --
The short-termpipeline of potential small hydropower projectsthat may be eligible for considerationby
the two Fls providedthat MENR, EMRA and the Fls own eligibility criteria are met, are listed in Table 1
and 2. (Thislist is not restrictive.Other projectscould also be considered by the Fls if they so chose and
the projectsmeetthe requirements.)




                                                     - 33 -

Table 1. BOT Projects -With Signed Contracts and Water Rights




        0,Table 2. Authorized Autoproducer Projects

            Project Developer      Project Name    Design
                                                  Capacity

                               DogurgalarI, II
         Enda                  Akcay I, II            27.75
         Molu                  Karasu                  5.00
         Molu                  IZamantilBahcelik       4.17
         lctas Enerii          IMercan                14.00




                             - 34 -

                                           Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                        TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project

                                                                                                 Local                Foreign                  Total
                                                                                              US $million          US $million             US $million
1. Renewable Energy GenerationFinancing
   ----                                                                                                                                           0.00
       IBRD Special PurposeDebt Facility
                 -                                                                              120.00                  80.00                 200.00
       Sponsor Equity                                                                           150.00                                        150.00
       Export Credit Financing                                                                     0.00               100.00                  100.00
       Other Borrowing                                                                           50.00                    0.00                  50.00
Total Baseline Cost                                                                             320.00                180.00                  500.00
PhysicalContingencies                                                                              0.00                   0.00                    0.00
Price Contingencies                                                                                0.00                   0.00                    0.00
                                         Total Project Cost;                                    320.00         I      180.00            1     500.00        I
                                                               Front-endfee                                               2.03                    2.03
                                 Total Financing Required                                 III   320.00                182.03            I     502.03


   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm)andthe total project cost, net oftaxes, is 502.03 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharingratio is 40.24% of
  total project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                   - 35 -

                             Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                                TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project



SummaryofBenefitsand Costs:

  Name of Project       FinancialRate of    NPV ( Financial) EconomicRateof NPV ( Economic)
                           Return FRR                                Retum ERR
                               17%        I     $3.4 Million    I         20%         I    $5.5 Million   I
        Aydin                 20%               $4.0 Million              23%              $6.4 Million
Typical Composite              16%              $8.1 Million              19%             $13.2 Million


         The table above shows three projectswhich are considered representativeof those which will be
financed by the Fls. The Mugla and Aydin projects (named after the provinces they are in) are actual
projects presented to TSKB for financing when the renewable energy fund is available. The Typical
Composite project is not a single project but a composite prepared by TKB from 3 projects they have
financed and the projects presented to them for financing. This is part of an effort by TKB to keep the
actual projectsconfidential.




          These projects are basically quite attractive and take advantage of existing infrastructure. In
general, they were not exploited by DSI because it largely concentrated on larger projects and was not
very interested in small ones.
         The Financial Internal Rate of Return (FRR) and the Economic Internal Rate of Return ( ERR)
are both shown as well as the net present values of the projects discounted at 10% real. They indicate
that the projects are very robust bothfinancially and economically. There is not a great deal of difference
between the FRR and the ERR since Turkey has a relatively open market economy with prices generally
reflecting costs. All calculations have been done in constant US dollars. Given the volatility of the
Turkish Lira and the extremely high rate of inflation, it is difficult to use it for analysis purposes and
neitherTSKB nor TKB does.

MainAssumptions:

1.       Benefits

         For the financial analysis the gross benefit is the value of the electricity produced. Electricity
production is based on average hydro conditions. The price is in US cents/kWh. It is assumed that the
electricity is sold at wholesale market prices and that the wholesale price over time approximates the
long run marginal cost of production which is about 5.0 US centslkwh. These prices exclude VAT and
other taxes. Currently the average wholesale price is about 5.3 US cents/kwh also excluding VAT and
other taxes.




                                                   - 36 -

         The cash flows for the purposes of the financial analysis are after taxes, which, however, are
fairly low. These projects do not pay VAT on investments, they are exempt from customs and stamp
duties and they have an investmentallowanceof 40% of investments.Under this investmentallowance
scheme, in addition to normal depreciation of 100% of investments,they can write off an additional40%
of investments as needed to eliminate corporate taxes in the early years of the project. Since these
projectsare quitecapital intensivethis benefitis substantial. Moreoverthe depreciationand write offs are
indexed to the revaluation index, set by the Government, which in turn is usually tied to the wholesale
price index so that they are not diminished by inflation. The plants are assumed to have a 20 year life
even though hydropowerplantstypically last much longer- a 40 year life is not uncommon.

         For the economic analysis corporatetaxes are excluded. The only additional benefit considered
for this analysis is the value of the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions due to generation from
renewable resources rather than generation from fossil fuels. For the purpose of this analysis, it is
assumed that the alternative to these renewableenergy plants is a lignite fired power plant during the
first year in which they operate ( these renewable energy plants would back out power produced from
lignite during the period of excess capacity which is expectedto last until at least 2007) and then they
back out power that would have been produced by new gas fired combined cycle power plants      - theleast
polluting fossil fuel fired plants- for the remaining 19 years of the analysis. Therefore the additional
value attached to the electricity generated from renewable plants is the value of avoided emissions of
carbon dioxide from the lignite plants and combinedcycle plants estimated to be $3.25 per ton of carbon
dioxide,following the suggestionof the PCF. [It should be notedthat there is currentlyno mechanismto
reflectthese estimatedexternalitiesintothe price of electricity].

         If VAT, which would be paidon the wholesale electricity produced, were considereda benefitfor
the economic analysisit would raisethe ERR by about 5%, to for example 22 % for the Mugla Project. If
the average retail price includingtaxes was used rather than the wholesale price ( as an indicationof
customer's willingness to pay), then the ERR for the Mugla Project would soar to 40 % . The project
team, however, thinks these latter calculationsare not very meaningfulin this situationsince the issue is
not whether electricity will be provided ( which might justify use of some measure of customer's
willingnessto pay) but ratherfrom what source.

2.       costs

         Costs of constructionfor the financial and economic analyses are based on the proposalsof the
developers. They excludeVAT which would not be leviedon these investments. The constructionperiod
is taken to be 24 months from start to completion. Unit operating costs are assumed at 1.4 US
cents/kWh excluding depreciation (except for the TKB Typical Compositewhich assumes 1.O centlkwh
operating costs). This is much higher than for major hydropowerplants, but it is believedthat the smaller
plantslack the economies of scale of the largerones.
         Calculations: All calculations are done in constant dollars, based on estimated costs and
generation and forecast wholesale electricityprices. The FRR and ERR are real rates of return.The real
interestrate used to calculateNPV is 10%.




                                                   - 37 -

Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of critical items:

       For the purposesof this analysis, the Mugla project is taken as representative.It has an ERR of
20% as comparedwith the assumed economicopportunitycost of capital of 10%. The switching values
of the major variables ( Le. the deviationfrom the base case which would yield an ERR of 10%)are
summarized below.

                       INPUT                                        SWITCHINGVALUE
                  InvestmentCosts                                          +81%
                   Capacity Factor                                         -45%
                   Electricity Price                                       -34%




                                                  - 38 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
                             TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project




                                           MUGLA              AYDIN         TYPICAL
                                             TSKB              TSKB      COMPOSITE
       Inst. Cap. (MW)                        10.95               8.9              20
       Plant UtilizationFactor                 49%               59%             60%
       Unit Inv.Cost ($/kW)                     718              741             1,000
       Unit Prod.Cost (c/kW)                     1.4              I.4               1


The main assumptionsfor this analysis is:

               Investmentperiod:    2 years
               Economic Life:       20 years


FinancingPlan
               Sponsor Equity:      30%
               SPDF/IBRD Loan:      40%
               Other Loan:          30%

SPDF Loan Terms
               Interest Rate:       7.5% (assumed,is World Bank rate with mark-ups by Fls)
               Maturity:            10years total maturitywith 3 year grace period.

Other LoanTerms (probably ECAs)
               Interest Rate:       9.0%
               Maturity:            8 years total maturitywith 2 year grace period.


InvestmentAllowance:                40% [Allows the projectsponsor to obtain a tax allowance for an
amount equal to                                             40% of the total investment cost.]




                                             - 39 -

               Year     1     2      3     4     5     6      7     8     9     10     11    12
                     (AI"keBn    MUSD)
I-                      3,610 4,620
  civilwcwk             3536  1,179
  tiriment                    3,143
  PdlllteESt              74   298

Finanang                3,610 4620
  EmLoEn                1,965 1,179

  4-w
  WEflaan                     ,2357
                        1,645 1 , m




sak!Rice(m)                           5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00   5.00  5.00  5.00   5.00  5.00
UnitOperatingCost(cikWh)              1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40   1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40   1.40  1.40
    (exd.dq")

SalesFhmUes                         2,342  2,342 2342  2,342  2342  2,342 2,342  2,342 2342  2,342
operatingcads                         6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6
CashGeneratedfromSdes               1,686  1,686 1,686 1,686  1,686 1,686 1,686  1,686 1,686 1,686

IncreaseinA43                         195      0    0      0     0      0    0       0    0      0



                                        0   262   262   262    262   262   262    262   131     0
                                        0     0   157   157    157   I57   I57    I57   157    79
                                        0   363   363   363    363   363   363    181     0     0
                                        0 6 2 5 7 8 2 7 8 2 7 8 2 7 8 2 7 8 2 6 0 0 2 8 8       79

IBRD 1I-                              147   142   I23   103     83    64    44     25     5     0
IBRD2Ink&                             88     88    85    74     62    50    38     27    15     3
OtherLOanIntetEd                      212   204   171   139    IC8    73    41      8     0     0
Total Interest                        448   435   380   316    251    187  I23     59    20      3

TotdRepaymentsaInterest               448  1,059 1,161 1,097  1,033  969   905    660   308     82

                                        0      0    0      0 7 6 3 4 3 3 6 4 3 8 5 4 0 5 4 1 6
                                        0      0    0      0     0      0    0       0    0      0

NetcashFkw                 0      0 1,098   627   95    589    577   374   417    641   973  1,189

IRR                      17%

DaMcoyerageRaiio                      3.5    1.6  1.5    1.5    1.6   1.7   1.9    26   55    20.7

P-wdling =me)                               22    1.5    1.5    1.6   1.7   21     3.3  9.6




                                                 - 40 -

                                MUGIAPROJECT-11Mw
                 Year     I 2              3     4     5     6     7     8     9     10     11      12
                      (AllnumbecsinthanandUSD)
NetSales                      0        0   2,342 2,342 2,342 2,342 5342 29342  2,342 2,342  2,342   2,342
operating-                    0        0 6 5 6 6 5 6     656   656   656   656   656    656   6 5 6 6 5 6
Depredabl                                    411   411   411   411   411   411   411    411   411    411
ProlitfromSakS                0        0   1,275 1,275 1275  1275  1275  1275  1275  1,275  1,275   1,275

FinancialExpenses             0        0 4 4 8 4 2 2     364   300   235   171   107     47    14       1
 IBRDILoan                                   147   138   118   98     79   59    39     20      2      0
 lsRD2Loan                                   8 8 8 8      83    71    59   47    35     24     12       1
 Otherhn                                     212   196   163   131    98   65    33      4      0      0

ProlitbeforeTax               0        0 8 2 7 8 5 3     911   975       1,103 1,167        1-      1,273
corporateTax (W?)             0        0       0     0     0    76         364   385          416    420

Net Profit                    0        0 8 2 7 8 5 3     911   900   696   739   782    822   8 4 4 8 5 3




                          1         2      3     4     5     6     7     8     9      I O   I1      12
                                                                                                     ~
                      (NnumbecshbcmsandUSD)
cunentAssets                  0        0   1,293 1,919 2,444 3,033 3,610 3,984 4,401 5,042  6,015   7 m
 cash&banks                  0         0   1,098 1,724 2,249 2,837 3,415 3,789 4,205 4,847  5,820   7,008
 p/R                         0         0     195   195   195   195   195  195    195    195   195     195

F dAssets(net)            3,647    8,341   7,930 7,518 7,107 6,695 6,284 5,872 5,461 5,050  4,638
  G~~ssfixedassets        3,647    8,341   8,341 8,341 8,341 8,341 8,341 8,341 8,341 8,341  8,341   8,341
 Accumulatedd?p"                             411   823 1,234 1,646 2,057 2,469 2,880 3,292  3,703   4,115

TotalAssets               3,647    8,341   9,223 9,438 9,551 9,728 9,894 9,856 9,862 10,091 10,653 11,430


Short-termLiabilities        37      112     791   935   919   979 13230 1262
                                                                            W  1,059    755   551     475
 IBRD 1LoanInstam            0         0     262  262   262   262   262         262     131     0       0
 IBRD2LoanInsta(lmer         0         0      0    I57   157   157   I57   157   157    157    79       0
 OtherLoan install^          0         0     363  363   363   363   363   363    181     0      0       0
 AcauedInte~~l              37       112     112    99    83   67     51   35     19     7      1       0
  -tax=Payabl                0         0      0      0    0     76  343   364   385     4M   416     420
 Dividentstobedisbibut;      0         0      0      0    0      0     0    0      0     0      0       0
  Othershoti4ennIiatW        0         0     55     55   55    55     55   55     55     55    55     55

Long-termLiabilii         1,965    5,501   4,876 4,094 3,312 2,531 1,749   967   367     79     0       0
 IBRDlLOan                1,965    1,965   1,703 1,441 1,179  917   655   393    131     0      0       0
 lsRD2Loan                         1,179   1,179 1,022  864    707  550   393   236      79     0       0
  Otherloan                        2,357   1,995 1,632 1,269  907   544    181     0     0      0       0

Shareholdets'Equity       1,645    2,729   3,555 4,408 5,319 6 3 9 6,915 7,654 8,436 9,258 10,102 10,955
 PaHn aptal               1,645   2,729   2,729  2,729 2,729 2,729 2,729 2,729 2,729 2,729  2,729   2,729
 R e m s                     0         0     827 1,679 2,599 3,490 4,186 4,925 5,707 6,529  7,374   8,227

Total Liabilities         3,647    8,341   9-    9,430 9,551 9,728 9,894 9,856 9,862 10,091 10,653 11,430




                                                          -41-

                                 MUGIAPROJECT-11Mw
                           1        2      3       4        5          6      7         a    9     10    11    12
                       (AllnumbersinkusandUSD)
InvestmentExpenditures     3,647    8,341
InvestmentAllowance R
TotalApplicablelnvestme    1,459    3,337  3,337   3,337    3,337     3,337   3,337    3,337 3,337 3,337 3,337 3,337

ProMbeforeTax                 0        0    827     853       911      975  ' 1,039    1,103 1,167 1,227 1,260 1,273

Allowance Used                0        0    827     853       911      746       0        0     0     0     0     0
Total InvestmentAllowan       0        0    827    1,679   2,590      3,337   3,337   3,337  3,337 3,337 3,337 3,337

TaxableIncome                 0        0       0      0         0      229    1,039    1,103 1,167 1,227 1,260 1,273
Taxation                      0        0       0      0         0       76     343      364   385   405   416   420


Corporatetax rate=33%
Taxableincome= Profitbefmtax Investmentallowance
                                -
Totalapplicableinvestmentallowance= Investmentallowancerate * Total Investmentexpenditures
Investmentallowanceused(t)e= Profitbeforetax (t)
Investmentallowancerateundernew lawis40%




                                                              - 42 -

hvesbnent
 -               Yea       1     2     3      4     5     6     7     a      9     10    11    12
                      ( A ! ~ f l ~ # 3 )
                          3,029  3,876
 civilWcwk                 2,967  989
                                 2,638
 paidlnlerest                62   250

F i d n g                 3,029  3,876
 I B W h                   1,649  989
 *lavl                           1,978
 Eqoity                    1,381  909




                                       5.00    5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00   5.00  5.00
                                       1.40    1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40   1.40  1.40  1.40




op&lngcosts                             6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5
CashGeneratedfrwnSdes                  1,660  1,660 1,660 1,660 1,660 1,660 1,660  1,660 1,660 1,660

IncreaseinAR                            I92       0    0     0      0    0     0      0     0     0
~lxxease shorttermIiTties
        in                               54      0     0     0      0    0     0      0     0     0
c a s h G e l l e & d f r o m ~        1$zl   1,660 1,660 1,660 1,660 1,660 1,660  1,660 1,660 1,660

                                           0   220   220   220   220   220   220    220   110     0
                                           0     0   1 8   1 8   1 8   1 8    I8    1 8   132    66
                                           0 3 0 4 3 0 4 3 0 4 3 0 4 3 0 4 3 0 4 1 5 2      0     0
                                           0 5 2 4 S 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 6 5 6 5 0 4 2 4 2         66

                                        124    120   103    87    70    54    37     2l     4     0
                                         74     74    72    62    52    42    8      22    12     2
                                        178    171   144   116    89    62    34      7     0     0
                                        376    265   319   266   211   I57    103    50    16     2




                                           0      0     0   3 6 3 6 1 3 6 9 3 8 6 4 0 4 4 2 1 4 3 0
                                           0      0     0    0      0    0     0      0     0     0

NetcashFkmr                   0     0  1,146   771   685   703   442   478    514   702   991  1,162

IFW                        23%

Debt--                                  4.0     1.9   1.7   1.8   1.9  20     22    3.0    &4   243
fW=*aver;lge)                                  25     1.8   1.8   1.9  20     24    3.9   11.2




                                                       -43-

                              AYDlNPROJECT-aSMw
               Year     1         2       3     4     5       6      7     8      9     10     11     12
                    (PA n u m hinttausandUSD)
Netsales                    0         0   2305 2305 2305 2305 2305 2305 2305 2305 2305 2305
operatins-                  0         0 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5 6 4 5
oepredation                                3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5 3 4 5
plofitfromsales             0         0   1,314 1,314 1,314  1,314  1,314  1,314  1,314 1,314  1,314  1,314

Financial-                  0         0    376    354   305    251    198    144    %I 40        12       1
 lBRD1Lcan                                 124    115    99     82     66    49     33     16     2       0
 lBRo2Lcan                                  7 4 7 4 6 9 5 9 4 9 4 0 3 0 2 0 1 0                           1
 OnJWLOan                                  178    164   137    110     82    55     27     3      0       0

PfDiitbefofBTaX             0        0     939    961 1,009  1,063  1,117  1,171  1,224 1,275 1,303   1,313
CorporateTax (PA)           0        0       0      0    3 6 3 5 1    3 6 9 3 8 6 4 0 4 4 2 1   4 3 0 4 3 3

Netprofit                   0        0     939    961   973    712    748    784   820    854   873     880




                        1         2       3     4     5       6     7      8      9     10     11     12
                    (AInumbersinttausardUSD)
CuWAssets                   0        0    1,338 2,108 2,794         3,939  M I 6 4,930  5,632 6,613   7,775
 Cash&h?&                   0        0   1,146  1,916 2,601  33,497 3,746
                                                               3 5         4,224 4,738  5,440 6,421   7,583
 AIR                        0        0     192    192   192    192    192    192   192    192   192     192

FiedAssets(net)        3,060     7,000    6,654 6,309 5,%4   5,618  !5,273 4,928 4,583  4,237 3,892   3,547
 Gmtbredassets         3,060     7,000   7,000  7,000 7,000  7,000  7,000  7,000 7,000  7,000 7,000   7,000
 Ammulateddspuath                          345   691  1,036  1,381  1,726  2,072 2,417  2,762 3,108   3,453

TotalAssets            3,060     7,000   7,992  8,417 8,757  9,115  9,212  9,344 9,513  9,870 10,505 11,322


                          31        94     672    793   815  1,117  1,121  1,125   977    722   561     487
                            0        0     220   220   220     220   220    220    220    110     0       0
                            0        0       0   132    132    132    132    132   132    132    66       0
                            0        0     304   304   304     304   304    304    152     0      0       0
                          31        94      94    83     70     56     43    29     16     6      1       0
                            0        0       0     0    36     351   369    386    404   421    430     433
                            0        0       0     0     0       0      0     0      0     0      0       0
                            0        0      54    54    54      54     54    54     54     54    54     54

Long-termLiabilii      1,649    4,616    4,092  3&6   2,780  2,124  1,468    812   308     66     0       0
 IBRDlLOan             1,649    1,649    1,429  1,2@   989     7 B   550    330    110     0      0       0
 lBRD2Loan                         989     989   857   725    583    462    330    198    66      0      0
 OtherLOan                      1,978    1,674  1,370 1,E5     761   457    152      0     0      0      0

Shareholders'Equity    1,381    2,290    3,228 4,189  5,162  5,875  6,623  7pO7  8,228  9,082 9,955 10,834
 PaWncam               1,381    2,290    2,290 2,290  2,290  2,290 2,290   2,290 2,290  2,290 2,290   2,290
 ReS3lW.S                   0        0     939  1,899 2,873  3,585 4,333   5,118 5,938  6,792 7,665   8,545

TotalLiabiliis        3,060     7,000    7,992  8,417 8,757  9,115  9,212  9,344 9,513  9,870 10,505 11,322




                                                       - 44 -

                                  AYDIN PROJECT- 8.9 MW
                             1         2        3     4      5          6      7         8    9     10    11    12
                        (All numbersinthousand USD)
InvestmentExpenditures       3,060    7,000
InvestmentAllowance R
Total Applicablelnvestme     1,224    2,800     2,800 2,800  2,800     2,800   2,800    2,800 2,800 2,800 2,800 2,800

ProfitbeforeTax                 0         0      939   961   1,009     1,063   1,117    1,171 1,224 1,275 1,303 1,313

Allowance Used                  0         0      939   961     901         0      0        0     0     0     0     0
Total InvestmentAllowan'        0         0      939  1,899  2,800     2,800   2,800    2,800 2,800 2,800 2,800 2,800

Taxable Income                  0         0        0     0     109     1,063   1,117    1,171 1,224 1,275 1,303 1,313
Taxation                        0         0        0     0      36      351     369      386   404   421   430   433


Corporatetax rate= 33%
Taxable income= Profit beforetax Investment allowance
                                  -
Totalapplicableinvestmentallowance= Investmentallowance rate * Total Investmentexpenditures
Investmentallowanceused(t) <= Profit beforetax (t)
Investmentallowancerateunder new law is40%




                                                              - 4 5 -

l"t 9,188 11,758
  -              Year         1    2     3      4         5       6     7       a        9        10    11    12
                       ~ ~ i l ~ l ! S D )


   mluIM(                     s,m %m
                                   &am
  paidlntarest                 788  758




-0                                     105,120 iogm 105,izo ior,,im 105,120 105,120 ioqm 105,iao 105,120 105,120

                                         5.00    5.00     5.00     5.00 5.00     5.00     5.00    5.00  5.00  5.00
                                         1.00     1.00    1.00     1.00 1.00      1.00    1.00     1.00  1.00 1.00


sdesF&3erws                             5256    5256     5256     5256  5256    5256     5256     5256  5256  5256
  costs                                 1,051   1,051    1,051    1,051 1,051   1,051    1,051    1,051 1,051 1,051
CashGeneratedfranSdes                   4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 4 2 0 5 42054205

InaeaSeiilPJR                            438        0       0         0    0        0       0         0    0     0
lllcressehshcrcterm liabilities            &a       0       0         0    0        0       0         0    0     0
CashGeneratedfranoperatiOns             9854 4205        4205     4205  4205    4205     4205     4205  4205  4205

                                            0 6 6 7 6 6 7 6 5 7 6 6 7 6 6 7 6 6 7 6 6 7 3 3 3                    0
                                            0       0 4 0 0 4 0 0 ~ 4 0 4 0 0 4 0 0 4 0 2 0 0
                                            0 9 2 3 9 M 9 2 3 9 2 3 9 2 3 9 2 3 4 6 2                      0     0
                                            0   1 m      1,990    1,990 1,990   1,990    1,990    1,528  733   200

                                         375     263      313      263  213       163     113       63    13     0
                                         225     225      278      168   158      123      518      69    38     8
                                         540     519      436      353  270       787     104       21     0     0
                                        1,140   1,107     9%       8a3   40       477     314      151    50     8




                                            0       0       0         0   78      844     888      952  l,m   1,030
                                            0       0       0         0    0        0       0        0     0     0

                                0    0  2714    1,5W     1,249    1,412 1,497     894    1,003    1,574 2p19  2,W

RR                            16%

                                         3.4      1.6     1.4       1.5  1.6      1.7      1.8     25    54   B.3
                                                  21      1.5       1.5  1.6      1.7     20       3.2   9.4




                                                          - 46 -

                              TypK=ALcoMPosrrEsmallHydmpoww~               -   -2oMw
                 Year   1         2       3      4      5      6      7      8      9     10     11     12
                     (AIn t "  hhwrdUSD)
Netsales                     0       0    5,256 5,256  5,256   5,256 5,256  5,256  5,256  5,256  5,256  5,256
0"-                          0       0    1,051  1,051 1,051   1,051 1,051  1,051  1,051  1,051  1,051  1,051
                                          1,047  1,047 1,047   1,047 1,047  1,047  1,047  1,047  1,047  1,047
profitfromsales              0       0    3,158 3,158  3,158   3,158 3,158  3,158  3,158  3,158  3,158  3,158

Financial-                   0       0    1,140  1,073   925     762   599    436    273    120     36      4
 I6RDlLoan                                 375    350   3N      250   200     150    1m      50      6      0
 lBRD2LOan                                 225    225   210      180   150    120     so     60     30      4
 CWlelLoan                                 540   498    415     332   249     166     83     10      0      0

PrOfitbefOBTaX               0       0    2,018 2,084  2,232   2,395 2,558  2,721  2,884  3,037  3,121  3,154
corporateTax (33!%)          0       0        0     0      0      78   844    898    952  1,002  1,030  1,041

Netprofit                    0       0    2,018 2,084  2,232   2,317 1,714  1,823  1,933  2,035  2,091  2,113




                        1         2       3      4      5      6      7      8      9     10     11      12
                     (A4n u m binthousardUSD)
cunentAssets                 0       0    3,152 4,661  5,910   7,322 8,818  9,712 10,715 12,289 14,709 17,676
 cadl&banks                 0        0 2,714    4,223  5,472   6,884 8,380  9,274 10,277 11,851 14,271 17,238
 NR                         0        0 4 3 8 4 3 8 4 3 8 4 3 8 4 3 8 4 3 8 4 3 8 4 3 4 3 8 4 3 8

FbedAssets(net)         9,281 21,230 20,183 19,136 18,088 17,041 15,994 14,947 13,899 12,m 11,805 10,758
  Gmfixedassets         9,281 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230 21,230
 AmmuW&pimatkm                            1,047 2,095  3,142   4,189 5,236  6,284  7,331  8,378  9,425 10,473




                           94      285    1,962 -2,329 2l288   2,326 3,051  3,064  2,616  1,841  1,321   1,128
                            0        0     667    667   667      667   667    667    667   333       0      0
                            0        0       0    400   400     400    400    400    400   400    200       0
                            0        0     923    923   923      923   923    923    462      0      0      0
                           94      285     285    252   211      170   129     89     48     18      4      0
                            0        0       0      0      0      78   844    898    952  1,m2   1,030  1,041
                            0        0       0      0      0       0     0      0      0      0      0      0
                            0        0       88    88     88      88    88     88     88     88     88     88

Long-termLiabilii       5,000 l4ooO 12,410 10,421      8,431   6,441 4,451  2,462    933    200      0      0
  lBRD1Loan             5,000    5,000   4,333  3,667  3,000   2,333 1,667  1,000    333             0      0
  lBRD2Loan                      3,000   3,000  2,600  2,m 1,m       1,400  1,000    600   m0        0      0
  CWlelLoan                      6,000   5,077  4,154  3,231   2308  1,385   462       0      0      0      0

Sharehdders'Equity      4,188    6,945    8,963 11,047 13,279 15,586 17,310 19,133 21,066 23,101 25,192 27,305
  PaWncapita,           4,188    6,945    6,945 6,945  6,945   6,945 6,945  6,945  6,945  6,945  6,945  6,945
  ReS7?IM?S                 0        0   2,018  4,102  6,334   8,651 10,365 12,188 14,121 16,156 18,247 20,360

TotalLiabilii           9,281 21,230 23,335 23,796 23,998 24,363 24,812 24,699 24,615 25,141 26,513 28,433




                                                        - 4 7 -

                                    TYPICAL COMPOSITESmall HydropowerProject 20 MW             -
                              I           2        3     4       5         6        7        0    9     10    11    12
                         (All numbers in thousand USD)
Investment Expenditures       9,281 21,230
Investment Allowance R
Total Applicable lnvestmt    3,713       8,492     8.492 8,492   8,492    8,492    8,492    8,492 8.492 8.492 8,492 8,492

Profit before Tax                0           0     2,018 2,084   2,232    2,395    2,558    2,721 2,884 3,037 3,121 3,154

Allowance Used                   0           0     2,018 2,084   2,232    2,158        0        0     0     0     0     0
Total Investment Allowan         0           0     2,018 4,102   6,334    0,492    8,492    8,492 8,492 8,492 8,492 8,492

Taxable Income                   0           0        0      0       0      237    2,558    2,721 2,884 3,037 3,121 3,154
Taxation                         0           0        0      0       0       78     844       898  952  1,002 1,030 1,041


Corporate tax rate = 33%
Taxable income = Profit before tax Investment allowance
                                   -
Total applicable investment allowance = Investment allowance rate Total Investment expenditures
Investment allowance used (1) <= Profit before tax (t)
Investment allowance rate under new law is 40%




                                                                  -48-

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                              TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project

Procurement

I.       Procurement

         Procurementof goods and works financed by the World Bank will be carried out in accordance
with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurementunder lBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January
1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consulting services
financed by the World Bank will be done in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Selectionand
Employmentof Consultantsby the World Bank Borrowers(issued in January 1997, revised September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002). A General Procurement Notice will be published in the United
NationsDevelopment Businessin May 2004.

II.      Implementation

          The main project component is the Special Purpose Debt Facility for Renewable Energy
Financing-- (seeAnnex 2)     -- itwould establisha term lendingfacility to leverageequity investmentfrom
local private developers, export credit financing and other forms of local debt financing for construction
of qualified renewable energy generation projects. The Special Purpose Debt Facility Component will
have World Bank financing of US$ 200 million. This component will support the renewable power
generation projects through two qualified Turkish development banks (Le. the Fls) who would provide
sub-loansfor investmentlending.

         In case of procurement under sub-loans, the PFls will be responsible for ensuring that the
procurement rules for sub-loansspecified below are complied with by the beneficiaryenterprises.TSKB
and TKB will be responsiblefor reviewingand monitoringthe compliancewith the procurementrules by
the beneficiaries.The Credit OperationsSpecialistswithin the TSKB and TKB will be responsiblefor all
procurement oversight for the management of the project. They will keep the records and copies of the
procurement documents handledthroughthe intermediarybanks.

         The Projectwill be supervisedthrough supervision missions organizedat least twice a year and
periodic procurement post reviewswill be also be carried out by the PAS assignedto this project.

111. ProcurementArrangements

111.1. Procurement Rules for Sub-loans under the SDecial PurDose Debt Facilitv Component of the
Proiect

         Private Sector Procurement Practice in Turkey: In the Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR) dated June 2001, it was determined that there are well-establishedcommercial practices
for the procurement of goods and works by private sector enterprises.

         In the case of goods, the local practice is to prepare well-defined technical specifications and
solicit quotations from the local andlor internationalmarkets. Many purchasers simply accept the terms
and conditions of the contractwhich is offered by the bidder although some conditions,such as payment
schedule and warranty period, may be amended by negotiation.

         In case of medium and large works, the technical specifications are usually prepared by
consultant companies and bids are collected from qualified contractors. Most private-sectorcompanies
prepare detailed designs, technical specificationsand detailed, itemized bills of quantities, use a form of
pre-qualificationfor large civil works contracts, invite competitive quotations or bids from at least 3



                                                   -49-

bidders, especially for high-value requirements and in the great majority of cases, negotiate on price. In
competitive procurement, the most widely-used criteria in bid evaluation are: familiarity / previous
satisfactory performance by the bidder; technical compliance/ quality of goods; price: and warranty. But,
generallythe criteriato be used in evaluationof bids are not disclosedto the bidders.

          In general, bids are invited from short lists of qualified bidders, who are invited either directly or
in response to an advertisement. Those private-sector firms who use standing lists of qualified bidders
generally update these lists every 1 or 2 years. As there are no provisions against direct contracting in
the Commercial Law, many private-sector purchasers use this procurement method, typically for
small-value, repeat purchases and purchasing additional quantities from a supplier previously appointed
by a competitive procedure. When equipment and machinery is needed for expansion of existing
facilities, the purchasers usually prefer     proprietary goods from a single source for the sake of
standardization and minimization of the operation and maintenance cost. The monitoring of contract
implementationis more efficient and effectivecomparedto the publicsector.

         The Procurement Capacity Assessment Report, to assess the capacity of procuring entities to
conduct procurement under the Proposed Renewable Energy Loan, was prepared through an informal
review of local private investors/developers of qualified renewable energy generation projects. Some
members of HESIAD (Hydropower Energy Industrialists and Businessmen Association) and RESIAD
(Wind Energy Industrialistsand BusinessmenAssociation) were interviewed,who will likely be the users
of this Loan, to assess their capacity and capability in handling procurement financed by sub-loans.
Based on preliminary findings, it was determined that the commercial practices are consistent with the
Bank's procedures in terms of economy and efficiency. The general rule in the sector is to procure the
least cost goods and services consistentwith minimumquality requirements.

         Procurement of Goods and Works under Special Purpose Debt Facility Component:
Based on the assessment above, procurement of goods and related services (installation and
maintenance) and construction materials financed under the proposed project will be done according to
the World Bank procurementguidelines. For contracts below US$5.0 million equivalent, established local
private sector commercial practiceswill be followed. Beneficiarieswould seek bidsfrom a list of potential
suppliers broad enoughto ensure competitive prices. Care has to be taken of other relevantfactors such
as time of delivery, efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefore, and in case of non-consultant services, of the quality and competence of the
parties rendering the services. Advertising in the local and international press will not be mandatory. For
contracts above US$l.O million equivalent but less than US$5.0 million equivalent, more than one
quotation must be obtained and documented. However, InternationalCompetitive Bidding (ICB) would be
requiredfor individual contracts of US$ 5.0 million equivalent and above for goods and related services.
All procurement of goods and related services under contracts equal to or above US$ 5.0 million
equivalent will be subject to prior review.

         For civil works estimated to cost less than US$8.0 million equivalent per contract, established
local private sector commercial practiceswill be followed. For contracts above US$1.O millionequivalent
but less than US$8.0 million equivalent, at least two quotations will be obtained and documented.
However, International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be required for individual contracts of US$8.0
millionequivalentand above for works contracts and shall be subject to prior review by the World Bank.

         Procurement of Consultants' Services under Special Purpose Debt Facility Component:
For consultants contracts with firms below US$1.O million equivalent, established local private sector
commercial practices will be followed. However, Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) would be
required for individual contracts of US$ 1.0 million equivalent and above for consultants' services. All
consultancy contractsabove US$ 1.O millionequivalent will be subject to prior review.

         For individualconsultants contracts below US$50,000equivalent, established local private sector
commercial practices will be followed. However, individual consultant contracts above US$ 50,000
equivalentwill be procured in accordancewith SectionV of the Consultants'Guidelines.



                                                     - 50 -

IV. Procurement Review by the Bank

Schedulingof Procurement.
        Procurementof goods, works and services for the projectwill be carried out in accordancewith
the agreed procurement plan, which will be updated as necessary and included in the progress reports
for Bank review and approval. The Bank will review the procurement arrangements proposed by the
Borrower, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and the scheduling of the procurement
processes, for its conformity with Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, the proposed
implementationprogramand disbursement schedule.

(a) PriorThe
         Review:
            following procurement action and documentation would be subject to Prior Review by the
Bank.
        -   Goods and Works:           For ICB Contracts; prior review of bidding document package
            (including, infer alia, Invitationto Bid, Instructionsto Bidders and Bid Data Sheet, General
            and Special Conditions of Contract, Bid Forms, Schedule of Requirements, Technical
            Specifications), Bid Evaluation Reports; Recommendations of Contract award and draft
            Contractwill be conducted.
        -   Consultant Services:        Prior review of procurement documents and actions which will
            -include:
                  QCBS: Prior reviewof short listing criteriafor consultingassignments; ConsultantsShort
                  Lists (three to six consultants per assignment); complete Request for Proposal (RFP)
                  package (including Invitation, Informationto Consultants and Data Sheet, General and
                  Special Conditions of Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal
                  standard forms, and draft Contract Agreement); Terms of Reference, including
                  description of services, consultants' reporting requirements,and required qualifications
                  of consultants' key personnel; Technical and Financial Evaluation Reports (including
                  official minutes); Recommendationsfor contract award; and NegotiatedContract will be
            -     conducted.
                  IC contracts of US$ 50,000 and above:           Prior review of criteria for short listing;
                  Consultants Short Lists (three to six consultants per assignment); Draft Contract
                  Agreement; Terms of Reference, including description of services and consultants'
            -     reportingrequirements;and NegotiatedContract will be conducted.
                  IC contracts of below US$ 50,000: Prior review of criteria for short listing consultants;
                  and (2) Terms of Referencewill be conducted.

        The Bank`s priorreview of procurementactionwould coverthe following;

            (i) All ICBcontracts for goods and works.

            (ii) First two contracts under commercial practices for goods, works and consultancy
                  services(onefrom TSKB and one from TKB).

            (iii) All contracts with consultingfirms estimated to be US$1,000,000 or moreeach.

            (iv) All contracts with individualconsultantsestimated to be US$50,000 or more each.

            (v) The Terms of Referencefor all consultantcontractswith consultingfirms and individuals.


(b) PostThe
         Review:
            procurement documents for all other contractsshall be subject to the Bank's post review on
a random basis, one in five contracts. Post review of the procurement documents will normally be


                                                    - 51 -

undertaken during the Bank supervision mission or as the Bank may request to review any particular
contracts at any time. In such cases, the TSKB and TKB shall provide the Bank for its review the
relevant documentation including letters of invitation to quote, evaluation reports, copies of
biddquotations, signed contracts etc. The post review shall be conducted by the Bank's Procurement
Specialist. The outcome of the post reviewwill be communicatedby the Bank at the earliest time.

V. Procurement Monitoringand Reporting

The TSKB and TKB will keep complete and up-to-date record of all procurement documentation and
relevant correspondence in their files, which will be reviewed by the 'Bank staff during supervision
missions. The Procurement Plan for the project shall be prepared by these banks and furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval in accordance with the provisions of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. The Procurement Plan, which indicatesthe procurement arrangements, contract packaging,
applicable procurement method, schedulingof procurement process, estimated cost etc, will be updated
annually. All procurements shall be undertaken in accordance with the Procurement Plan. Monitoring
reports on procurement progress will be submitted as part of progress reports on program
implementation. The report shall include all information related with the completed, on-going and
plannedcontracts.

Procurementmethods(TableA)

Turkey  - Renewable  Energy Loan
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent]

                                             Procurement
 Expenditure                                 ICB         NCB      Other        Total Cost

A. REL Sub-Loans                                  -          -     500.000       500.000
                                                                  (200.000)     (700.000)
 B. Front End Fee                                 -          -       2.03         2.03
                                                                    (2.03)       (2.03)
TOTAL                                                              502.03        502.03
                                                                   (202.03)     (202.03)




             Table B:Thresholdsfor Procurement Methodsand Prior Review



 ExpenditureCategory   ContractValue Threshold          Procurement    Contracts Subjeci
                                  (US$)                   Method          to Prior Review


                       above $5 millionfor goods,
                       above $8 millionfor works,  (I) ICB and QCBS    (I)All ICBand
Sub-loans              above $1 millionfor         thresholds,
                                                   ('I) belowthese     QCBS contracts
                      consultantfirm and                               (11)Firsttwo
                      above $0.05for individual    commercial
                      consultantcontracts          practices apply     contracts




                                                - 52 -

Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

Section 1: Capacity of the implementingAgency in Procurementand Technical Assistance
requirements
The capacity of the implementing agency to conduct procurements has been assessed. The
overall procurement assessment is medium-risk. The following action plan is recommended as a
result of this assessment. TSKB and TKB shall separately appoint at least one full-time staff and
a back-up, who will be responsible for the review of procurement related documents. The PAS
shall organize two days procurement training (for procurement of goods and works under ICB
procedures and for selection of consultants under QCBS) for these staff and the other staff who
may involve in review of procurement related documents, to familiarize themselves on the Bank's
procurement procedures.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or            Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Countrv Procurement Strateav Paoer status:          actions of the first vear readv bv neaotiations
The CPAR is fina zed in June 2001.                ]YES        NOX                . I .4


                                                                         a
                    I, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date       Estimated date    I Indicate if there  I Domestic            I Domestic
of Project          of publication of    is procurement       Preference for        Preference for
Launch              General              subject to           Goods                 Works, if
Workshop-           Procurement          mandatory SPN        YesX No               applicable
June 2004           Notice               in Development                             Yes   NoX
                    0511612004           Business

                                       I YesX     No        I                     I
Explain briefly the 'rocurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be
monitored through progress reports and supervision missions. Each supervision mission will
include the project procurement specialist for updating the procurement plan and conducting post

Co-financing: None

Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part if Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project: Salih K. Kalyoncu (ECSPS)

Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: There are two procurement
specialists in the Country Office. One of them will be responsible for this project and the other will
provide back-up service in the absence of assigned staff.




                                              - 53 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                                 TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project

FinancialManaeement
1. Summaryof the FinancialManagementAssessment
ExecutiveSummaryand Conclusion
The task team has conducted an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management
system at TKB and TSKB. The current financial management arrangements for the project at TKB and
TSKB are satisfactoryto the Bank.

Country Issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment for Turkey was carried out in 2001. The CFAA report
identified some weaknesses in the Turkish financial accountability, in both the public and the private
sector. The significant part of the REL will be implemented by two development Banks TSKB and TKB.
The 1999 Banks Law established the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency, and among its
powers is the power to determine the accounting and auditing requirements applicable to the banks
under its supervision. Banks must submit non-audited monthly prudential returns to the BRSA, and
publish audited annual financial statements. Only auditors approved by the Treasury/BRSA may carry
out such audits. All changes in auditor must also be approved, and a change can be imposed where
there is dissatisfaction with the performance of the auditor. The external auditor is required to report to
the BRSA on banks' internal control and risk management systems, as well as being obliged to report
direct to the BRSA with respectto certain issueswhich may threatenthe going concern natureof a bank.

Until the 1999 banking law reforms, the Council of Ministers rather than banking supervisors, were
responsiblefor promulgatingrequirements in areas such as loan loss provisioning, and these rules were
relaxed twice in responseto the Asian and Russianfinancial crises (in February 1998 and August 1999).
Requirements with respect to the calculation of capital adequacy on a consolidated basis, and to
disclosuresin the areas of largeexposures, connected lending,foreign exchangeexposures, interest rate
risk exposures, and maturity risk exposures also fell short of the relevant EU, Basel Committee and IAS
norms. This served to underminethe quality and relevance of information provided to regulators and to
the market, and has led to weakening the early-warning signals provided by financial statements and to
understatingthe extent of problems which exist. Since December 1999, efforts were made to strengthen
significantly the regulatory and institutional infrastructurefor banking regulation(includingthe creation of
the BRSA), includingupgradingof the relevantfinancial reportingobligations In June 2000, the Treasury
issued an instruction which brought disclosure rules for banks closer to International Accounting
Standards, and in June 2001, the BRSA issued a new Regulation on Chartering and Operations of
Banks, which further enhances public disclosure requirements.

The Bank in 1999 has extended an Export Finance IntermediationLoanto Eximbank (throughTreasury).
Eximbank on lends to Participating Financial Institutions (PFI) for on lending to beneficiary enterprises.
At the inception of EFlL the PFls were obliged under the terms of SLAs to remain in compliance with
prudential ratios which were stricter than those imposed on the banking system by the Turkish bank
regulatory authorities(at the time the Turkish Treasury and the Central Bank).As conditionality for FSAL
and later PFPSAL the prudential regulations for the Turkish banking system were tightened and in May
2001, the SLAs were amended to replace the original prudential ratios with those set forth in the (new)
bankinglaw and regulationsissued by BRSA.

The BRSA issued a new comprehensive regulation on accounting standards for banks in July 2002,
which brings these standards in line with IAS. However, the BRSA regulation does not require full
application of IAS 27 (consolidation of subsidiaries), as banks only have to consolidate their financial
subsidiaries, while for non-financial subsidiaries separate financial statement disclosure is mandated.
The statements of such non-financial subsidiaries are not IAS-based.Thus their disclosure will not allow
the user to consolidate these with the IAS-based consolidated statements of the parent bank and its


                                                     - 54 -

financial subsidiaries. Also, as the IAS are subject to change, any such change will necessitate an
adjustmentof the BRSA regulation.

The BRSA also issues rules governingthe externalaudit of bank financial statements, and only auditors
approved by the BRSA may carryout such audits. The Regulationon Principlesfor IndependentAuditing
and the Regulationon Authorizationof the Auditing Institutionsand Permanent or TemporaryWithdrawal
of their Authorities, were both published in the Official Gazette Nr. 24657 on January 31, 2002; these
regulationsare broadly in linewith ISA.

The two developmentbanks which will be responsible from managingthe credit linesto the beneficiary
enterprises have been assessed for compliance with BRSA prudentialregulationsby the projectteam
and found to be in compliance.

Strengths and Weaknesses
The significant strengthsthat providethe basis for relianceon the projectfinancial management system
include (a) the disbursements to the beneficiary enterprises will be based on the invoices submitted by
these enterprises(b) funds will be disbursed throughTSKB and TKB which are selectedfor their financial
strength, capacity to appraise and supervise projectimplementation(c) experiencesof both banks inthe
implementationof Bank projectsand projectsfunded by other internationalorganizations.The Bankswill
also have a right to ask for audited financial statements of the beneficiary enterprises if deemed
necessary.


ImplementingEntity
The largestcomponentof the projectwill be implemented by TSKB(150 million US$) and TKB (50 million
US$). The borrowerfor the loan is the Government of Turkey and there will be an on-lendingagreement
between the Treasury and TSKB and TKB.

TSKB was established in 1950 with the support of the World Bank and the cooperation of the
Government of the Republicof Turkey, CentralBank of Turkey and leadingcommercialbanksof Turkey.
TSKB has been founded for the purpose of (i) providing assistance to private sector enterprises in all
sectors of the economy primarily in the industrialsector (ii) to encourage and assist the participationof
privateand foreign capital in corporationsestablished and to be established in Turkey (iii) to assist with
the development of the capital marketinTurkey.

TSKB's largest shareholder is the Is Bankasi Group with 55.24 % of the equity. Consolidatedfinancial
statements are preparedfor Is Bankasiand thereforethere is not a consolidationrequirementfor TSKB.
TSKB has internalregulationsand manuals for internalcontrol and risk management in compliance with
the banking law.

TKB is a also a development and investment bank whose main business is to give medium and
long-termfinancialsupportthroughprojectfinance, financial leasingand equity participationto joint stock
companies in the industrial, tourism, energy, health and education sectors. The Undersecretariat of
Treasury is the mainshareholder of the bank with 99% of registeredcapital.

In2001a separate risk managementgroup withinthe bank was establishedin order to comply with newly
enacted banking regulations.One board member is solely responsiblefor risk management. Credit risk,
market risk and operational risk monitoring functions have been separated. Internal audit and risk
monitoring departments were also established in 2001.

Compliance with the prudentialregulationsset out by Banking RegulatorySupervisoryAuthority (BRSA)
is requiredfor continuingeligibility of TKB and TSKB.




                                                  - 55 -

Funds Flow
There will be two specialaccounts for the project, one inTSKB and one inTKB.

For componentone, TKB implemented portion, the beneficiaryenterpriseswill make their applicationsto
the loan department of TKB. The investigationdepartmentcollects the first informationfrom the market
and based on the firms good standing inthe market will give their positivereport to the loan department.
The project appraisal department will then assesses the project from (a) technical (b) financial and (c)
economical perspectives. The criteria set forward in the project operations manual for becoming an
eligible beneficiary enterprise will' be assessed during this stage. Followingthe positive assessment of
the Project Appraisal Department, the loan will be submitted to the Credit Committee and the Banks
Board of Directors. After the approval of the BOD the loan department will prepare the loan contract.
The Funding Departmentwill be informed. The special account will be the responsibilityof the Funding
Department.Project Appraisal Department will be responsiblefrom controllingthe already paid or to be
paid invoices.They will be checking the mathematicalcorrectnessas well as compliance with the project
framework. Upon their approval the funding department will make funds available to the beneficiary
enterprises.

All the same procedureswill be followed inTSKB.

Staffing
Both TSKB and TKB have given the names of personnel assigned to the project and there are
designated personnel for project accounting and financial reporting, verifying the eligibility of invoices
submitted by the beneficiaryenterprises and disbursement from the special account. The qualifications
and experienceof the nominated staff are satisfactoryto the Bank.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The financial management capacitiesat both TSKB and TKB are satisfactory.They both havequalified
personnel, adequatemanuals and guidelines to conductefficientfinancial management.The accounting
and reportingsystems at bothbanks are geared toward producing statements and informationas
required by Turkishlaw and regulations. TSKB also has accounting and reporting systems geared toward
producingfinancial statements in accordance with InternationalAccountingStandards.
Considering that bothbankshave adequate accountingand reportingsystemsthe maintransactionsthat
is: the movements in the specialaccount, credit lines madeavailableto the beneficiaryenterprises,and
uses of these credit lineswill be in the banks' main accountingsystems. The main accountingsystem
will be supported by a sub-system (MIS) for projectaccountingand reportingpurposes. The follow-upof
documentation submitted by the beneficiariesto withdraw loanfunds will made in this system. The
systemwill also be capable of producing the FMRs.

Reporting and Monitoring
TSKB and TKB will maintainrecords and will ensureappropriateaccountingfor the funds provided. The
formats and contents of the FinancialMonitoring Reports(FMR) are discussed and agreed betweenthe
Bank, TSKB and TKB. The FMRwill be prepared quarterlyand will be submitted to the Bank no later
than 45 days after the end of the quarterlyperiod. A financial management manualfor the projectwill be
prepared by April 11, 2003 and the FM manualwill includea sectionon the FMRs.




                                                  - 56 -

InformationSystems
The maintransactionsthat is the movements of the specialaccount,credit lines madeavailableto the
beneficiaryenterprisesand withdrawalsfrom the credit lines will be inthe TKB and TSKB main
accountingsystems. The mainaccounting systems will be supported by a sub system (MIS) for project
accountingand reporting.Both bankshavecompleted the preparationof such a systemand tried it with
test data. The systems are capable of producing the FMRs.

Action Plan
It is concludedthat the financial management arrangements for the projectmarginallysatisfythe Bank's
minimum requirements. The following action plan is proposed to develop the financial management
system to a satisfactorylevel beforethe loan is submitted to Board:


              Action                                        Responsible           Deadline
               1. Finalization of the development of the TKB and TSKB             Done
               MIS, where the project accounts will be
               recorded and reported.
              2. Sample FMRs satisfactory to the Bank TKB and TSKB                Done
               produced by the MIS
               3. Auditors     contract signed with an TKB                        Done
              acceptable auditor for the audit of financial
              statements in accordance with IAS
              4. IAS financial statements for 2006 TKB and TSKB                 I Done
              submitted to the Bank
              5. Projectauditorto be appointed              TKB and TSKB          Done
              6. Project financial management manual TKB and TSKB                 Done
              finalized


Supervision Plan
Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervisethe project'sfinancial managementarrangements
in two main ways: (i) review the project's quarterly financial management reports as well as the banks'
and project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii) during the
Bank's supervision missions, review the project'sfinancial management and disbursementarrangements
(includinga review of a sample of SOEs and movementson the SpecialAccount) to ensure compliance
with the Bank's minimum requirements.           As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management
Specialist will assist in the supervision process.
2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit

Both TKB and TSKB have internalauditingdepartmentsstaffed with qualifiedaudit professionalswho
are capable of producing basic audit tasks. Transactions underthe loanwill be subjectto internalaudit as
a part of banks' credit portfolioaudits.

External Audit
There will be two sets of project financial statements. TSKB and TKB will be responsible from the
projectfinancial statements coveringthe amounts that they will implement.

Annual and six-monthly (limited review) audits of TSKB are undertakenon an IAS basis in accordance
with International Auditing Standards by a reputed international auditing firm. The current auditor of



                                                  - 57 -

TSKB is Deloitte and Touche Turkey. The last three years' audit reports (in accordance with IAS) were
reviewed and all were unqualified.In order to ensure that the project accounts and the special account
would be audited in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for FinancialReportingand Auditing of
ProjectsFinanced by the World Bank, the mission discussed and agreedwith TSKB that the auditors of
TSKB's annual financial statements will also carry out the project audit. TSKB has engaged the
services of international auditorsfor several years and thereforethe engagement of an auditor will not
be a specific Boardcondition.

2000 and 2001 annual and six monthly accounts of TKB have been audited in accordance with the
auditing principles of the Banking Act no: 4389. The auditors (a local firm) have issued an unqualified
opinion on the financial statements of the bank for the last these years, and stated that the financial
statements reflect TKB's financial position in accordance with the accountingstandards and regulations
as set forward in the Banks Act, Law no:4389, TKB has hired an international auditor (Deloitte and
Touche) and has submitted audited IAS financial statements for 2001 and 2002 to the Bank. Also in
order to ensure that the project accounts and the special account would be audited in accordance with
the World Bank Guidelinesfor FinancialReportingand Auditingof Projects Financedby the World Bank,
the mission discussed and agreed with TKB that the auditors of TKB's annual financial statements will
also carry out the projectaudit.

3. DisbursementArrangements

DisbursementArrangements
The project will be disbursing on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using FMR
based disbursement.

Two specialaccounts will be createdfor the project, one for TKB and one for TSKB. The banks will open
and maintain special accounts in US Dollars by submitting comfort letters to the Bank. The special
accountswill have authorizedallocationsof US$ 15 millionfor TSKB and US$ 5 millionfor TKB.

Authorized persons, who will be specifiedin the projectFM manualswill sign the withdrawal applications.
At the start of the project, the initial deposits will be limited to US$ 2.5 million for TKB and US$ 7.5
million for TSKB, the remaining portion of the authorized allocation will be requested after cumulative
disbursements reach a level of US$ 15 million for TKB and US$ 50 million for TSKB. The minimum
applicationsizefor payments directlyfrom the loan account for issuanceof special commitments is 20%
of the specialaccountallocationfor all the implementing agencies.

Applications for replenishment of the Special Account will be submittedto the Bank on a monthly basis,
or when the balance of the SpecialAccount is equal to about half of the initial deposit or the authorized
allocation, whichever comes first, and will include a reconciled bank statement as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.

Retroactivefinancingupto and aggregateamount of 10% of the loan
US$5 millionfor TKB    -- shall                                        -- US$ 15millionfor TSKB, and
                               be permittedfor eligibleexpendituresmadeafter June 30, 2003 untilthe
effectivenessdate of the Project.

Use of statements of expenditure (SOEs): under the credit line disbursements would be made against
Statements of Expenditures for (a) goods contracts costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent each; and
(b) works contracts costing less than $8,000,000 equivalent each (c) consulting firm contracts costing
less than $1,000,000 equivalent each and (d) individual consultant contracts costing less than $50,000
equivalent each. Detaileddocuments evidencing these expenditureswould be reviewedand retainedby
TSKB and TKB.

Disbursement for the financing of goods, works and consultancy contracts exceeding the above limits
would be made on the basis of full documentation. Disbursement and procurement documents using
SOE procedures would be retained by the implementing agency for a period of at least two years after


                                                    - 58 -

the disbursement and made availableto World Bank staff and extemal audits.




Allocationof loan proceeds(TableC)

                              Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

         Expenditure Category            Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
Component 1of the Project:                      200.00                         100%
Goods, works and consultants' services
fmanced under Sub-loans and Financing
Leases:
Unallocated                                      0.01                          100%
Front-EndFee                                     2.02                          100%

Total Project Costs with Bank                   202.03
 Financing
                           Front-endfee I
Total                                           202.03




                                             - 59 -

                                 Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                                TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project

 Project Schedule                                               Planned                           Actual
/Timetaken to preparethe project (months)          I         18                     I            16             I
IFirst Bank mission (identification)               I         01/07/2002             I           01/07/2002       I
Appraisal mission departure                                  12/04/2002                         0111912003
 Negotiations                                                01/20/2003                         0411512003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                               0513112004

Prepared by:
Government Ministries and Agencies
         1. Ministryo f Energy andNatural Resources (MENR)
        2. Department o f State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
        3. General Directorate of Electric Power Resources (EIE)
        4. Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA)
 FinancialIntermediaries
         1. Turkish Industrial Development Bank (TSKB)
        2. Turkish Development Bank (TKB)

Preparationassistance:
A Japanese Grant for $483,000 was usedto helpprepare the project. Itsprimary purpose was to help establishthe
procedures for processingrenewable energy projects within the Government and to assist the Government with
maintaining the backlog o f projects.

Bank staff who worked on the projec included:
         Name                                                SDecialitv
RanjitLamech                                Team Leader
James Moose                                 EnergyEconomist, Financial Analyst
Amarquaye Amar                              SystemPlanning, Sub-project Analysis
BanyTrembath                                Power Engineer (Dams, Hydropower), Institutionaldevelopment
BernardBaratz                               Environment
 DilekBarlas                                Legal
Radhika Srinivasan                          Resettlement
Gurhan Ozdora                               FinancialIntermediaries
Elmas Arisoy                                Procurement
 Ayse Seda Aroymak                          FinancialManagement
 FuruzanBilir                               Disbursements
RohitMehta                                  Financial issues, Disbursements
Hala Khattar                                Loan choice
Yukari Tsuchiya                             Program Assistant, Washington, D.C.
 Salih Kalyoncu                             Procurement
ElifYonca Yukseker                          Team Assistant, Ankara



                                                    - 60 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                           TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan


1.      Operational Manual                2003
2.      OperationalManual  ---- TSKB, June
                                TKB, January 2004


B. Bank Staff Assessments


1.      Financial Management Assessment o f TSKB andTKB, February 2003
2.      Procurement Assessment

C. Other
Amendments to Electricity Market LicensingRegulations for renewable Energy.
 Annual Reports of TSKB andTKB
 Map of River Basins


*Includingelectronic files




                                                -61 -

                                   Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                      TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project
                                                  03-Feb-2004
                                                                                                           Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                        OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                          IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd
PO82801     2004 EXP FIN2                            303.10      0.00                  0.00    0.00  303.10        0.00       0.00
PO59872     2003 BASICED 2 (APL#2)                   300.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00  292.96      134.19       0.00
PO70286     2002 ARlP                                600.00      0.00  ,               0.00    0.00  411.22      337.89       0.00
PO74408     2002 SRMP                                500.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00  382.55      190.50       0.00
PO69894     2001 PRlV SOC SUPPRT                    250.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00  151.69      121.27       0.00
PO44175     2000 BIODIV/NTRLRESMGMT(GEF)              0.00       0.00                  8.19    0.00     5.79       3.44       0.00
PO68368     2000 MARMARAEARTHQUAKEEMGRECON           505.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00  300.13      299.97      59.37
PO68792     2000 ERL                                 759.60      0.00                  0.00    0.00  375.00      375.00     375.00
PO09073     1999 INDUSTRIALTECH                      155.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   52.10       52.10       0.00
Po09072     1998 PRlVOF IRRIGATION                   20.w        0.00                  0.00    0.00     1.82       1.82       1.82
PO48852     1998 NATLTRNSMGRID                      270.00       0.00                  0.00   27.79  179.41      207.20      -6.79
PO08985     1998 CESMEWS 8 SEWER                      13.10      0.00                  0.00    2.70     5.56       8.26       0.41
PO09076     1995 HEALTH2                             150.00      0.00                  0.00   20.17   25.97       52.48      52.48

                                                                                                                                  ~

                                           Total:  3825.80       0.00                8.19     50.66  2487.31     178411     482.29




                                                      - 62 -

                                            TURKEY
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                       November 15,2003
                                       InMillions US Dollars

                                                        Committed                  Disbursed
                                                     IFC                         IFC
FY Approval     Company                         Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001            Turkish PEF                      0.00   10.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   1.26    0.00   0.00
1999            Unye Cement                     14.59    0.00  0.00  0.00  14.59   0.00    0.00   0.00
1999            Uzel                             9.48    0.00  0.00  5.69   9.48   0.00    0.00   5.69
0170171198      Viking                           8.18    0.00  0.00  0.00   8.18   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995            Yalova Acrylic                   2.50    0.00  0.00   1.33  2.50   0.00    0.00   1.33
1997198         Yapi Kredi Lease                 0.48    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.48   0.00    0.00   0.00
0               ALease                           1.11    0.00  0.00  0.00   1.11   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998            Adana Cement                     2.50    0.00  0.00  0.00   2.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001/03         A k b d                         25.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  25.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
0198            AltematifBank                    1.11    0.00  5.00  0.00   1.11   0.00    5.00   0.00
1995196101103   Arcelik                         17.21    0.00  0.00  0.00  17.21   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            Arcelik L GKlima                13.79    0.00  0.00  4.72  13.79   0.00    0.00   4.72
1994197102      Assan                           25.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  25.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002            Atilim                           6.50    0.00  0.00  0.00   5.49   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            Banvit                          15.00    5.00  0.00  0.00  15.00   5.00    0.00   0.00
0194196         BayindirbankA S                  0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002            Beko                            29.08    0.00  0.00  29.08 29.08   0.00    0.00  29.08
2001            Bilgi                           11.00    0.00  0.00  0.00  11.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
                Borcelik                        10.00    3.21  0.00  0.00  10.00   3.2 1   0.00   0.00
1994195196197   CBSBoyaKimya                    0.00     0.65  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.65    0.00   0.00
1995196         CBS Holding                     4.00     0.00  0.00  0.00   4.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1994            CBS Printas                     0.00     0.01  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.01    0.00   0.00
1996101         Cayeli Bakir                    3.15     0.00  0.00  0.00   3.15   0.00    0.00   0.00
1992            Conrad                          3.50     0.00  0.00  0.00   3.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
1990193102      Demir Leasing                    1.11    0.00  0.00  0.00   1.11   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997198         EKS                             12.16    0.00  0.00  0.00  12.16   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002            Elginkan                        0.40     0.00  0.00  0.00   0.40   0.00    0.00   0.00
1988193196      Entek                          21.25     0.00  0.00  14.91 21.25   0.00    0.00  14.91
1995            FinansLeasing                    1.11    0.00  0.00  0.00   1.11   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997198         Finansbank                      5.56     0.00  0.00  5.18   5.56   0.00    0.00   5.18
0199            Garanti Leasing                 0.00     0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1994198100      GumussuyuKap                    4.00     0.00  3.25  0.00   4.00   0.00    3.25   0.00
1999            Gunk01                          6.70     0.00  6.70  0.00   6.70   0.00    6.70   0.00
2001            IndoramaIplik                   6.25     0.66  0.00  0.00   6.25   0.66    0.00   0.00
1998            IpekPaper                       16.06    0.00  0.00  0.00  16.06   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998100102      Kepez Elektrik                  6.48     0.00  0.00  0.00   6.48   0.00    0.00   0.00
1990            Kiris                           10.06    0.00  0.00  0.00  10.06   0.00    0.00   0.00
0188190         KOY-TU                          0.00     0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1990192         Kula
                                                11.oo
                                                4.93    0.00   0.00  0.00   4.93   0.00    0.00   0.00
1991            MESA Group                              0.00   0.00  0.00   5.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003            Medya                           0.00    0.00   4.99  0.00   0.00   0.00    4.99   0.00
1993196         MilliRe                        50.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002            ModemKarton                    10.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  10.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998102         NASCO                          10.18    0.00   0.00  3.55  10.18   0.00    0.00   3.55
1991
                      Total Portfolio:        514.06  20.71   34.94 121.23 454.28  11.97   34.94 121.23




                                              - 63 -

                                            Approvals PendingCommitment
FYApproval   Company                       Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001         Akbank                        0.03       0.00     0.00     0.00
2004         Akbank BLoanInc               0.00       0.00     0.00     0.02
2003         Cayeli Expan2                 0.02       0.00     0.00     0.00
2000         Erbakir                       0.01       0.01     0.00     0.00
2002         MilliReasurans                0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2004         OyakBank I1                   0.05       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003         SisecamExp.                   0.00       0.00     0.00     0.01
2002         TEB m                         0.00       0.00     0.00     0.05

             Total PendingCommitment:      0.10       0.01     0.01     0.08




                                      - 64 -

                                              Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                                       TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project
                                                             Europe B   Lower-
POVERMand SOCIAL                                               Central mlddle-
                                                       Turkey    Asia  income      Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population, mid-year (millions)                          69.6     476    2,411
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                        2,500   2,160    1,390                   Lifeexpectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                         174.0   1,030    3,352
Average annual growth, 1996-02                                                    I                    T
Population(%)                                             1.7      0.1     1.o
Laborforce (%)                                            2.2      0.4     1.2     GNI

Most recent estlmate (latest year available, 199642)                               per
                                                                                   capita
Poverty I%ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)
Urban population(56 oftotalpopulation)                    67       63       49
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          70       69       69                         1
Infantmortality(per 1,000live births)                     33       25       30    I
Childmalnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                       8               I 1           Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (Om ofpopulation)       82       91       81
Illiteracy(Om of populationage 15+)                       14        3       13
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)       101      102     111                Turkey
    Male                                                 105      103     111                Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                96      101     110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982   1992    2001     2002      Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                64.4  158.9   145.2    182.8
Gross domesticinvestmenUGDP                       17.0  23.9     16.8     21.3
Exportsof goods and ServicedGDP                   11.9  14.4     33.7     28.8                       Trade
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                         13.8  20.9     19.2     19.6
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         18.5  24.4     20.7     20.7                         T

Currentaccount balance/GDP                        -1.5   -0.6     2.3     -0.8
Interestpayments/GDP                               1.8    2.0     3.6      3.4
Total debUGDP                                     30.6  35.6     78.4     71.9
Total debt service/exports                        29.4  32.1     44.0     49.0
Presentvalueof debUGDP                                                                                 l.

Presentvalue of debtlaxports                                                                      Indebtedness
                                     1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002   2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                                -
GDP                                       5.1      2.8   -7.5     7.8      4.7                Turkey

GDP percapita                             2.7      1.0   -9.0     6.1      3.6               Lowermiddleincomegroup
                                                                                         ~




STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                       22.7  15.3     12.8     13.0
Industry                                          25.1  29.9     26.1    25.4
  Manufacturing                                   17.7  18.9     15.8     16.0      0
Services                                          52.2  54.7     61.1    61.6
Privateconsumption                                76.3  66.2                                                            II
                                                                 66.6    66.3        1
                                                                          ...    1-50                              V
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       9.9  12.9     14.2     14.0
Importsof goods andservices                       15.0  17.3     31.3    30.5                -GDI           *GDP

                                                                                                                        II
(average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                        1.4   1.1     -6.0     7.6    40  T
Industry                                           7.2   2.6     -7.2     5.7    20
  Manufacturing                                    7.2   3.3     -8.0     8.2
Services                                           4.2   3.1     -6.2     7.0
Privateconsumption                                 4.3   2.2     -9.2     2.6    -20

Generalgovernmentconsumption
Gross domesticinvestment                           5.0   1.1    42.0     35.7
Importsof goods andservices                                                                -Exports        -Imports




                                                             - 65 -

                                                                                                                              Turkev

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                1982     1992       2001     2002
Domestic prices                                                                        Inflation(%)                                1
(% change)                                                                             100

Consumerprices                                     ..     70.1       53.9    44.8       75
ImplicitGDP deflator                             28.2     63.7       54.8    43.5       50

Government finance                                                                      25
("hofGDP,includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                     ....
                                                   ..      19.0      29.3    28.2
Currentbudgetbalance                                       -1.3     -14.7     -4.7
Overallsurplus/deficit                                   -10.7      -20.9    -12.3             -GDP      deflator  *CPI
                                                                                      ~




TRADE
                                                1982     1992       2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                          Exportandimportlevels (US$mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            5,890    14,891     34,373  39,827      60,030
   Textiles                                    1,145     5,603     10,344  12,066
   Processedagriculturalproducts               1,571     2,293      1,876   1,705
   Manufactures                                4,655    13,440    28,695   32,673      40,MO

Totalimports(cif)                              8,843    22,871    41,399   51,270
   Food                                          123     1,398        848   1,211      2o.wo
   Fuelandenergy                               3,943     3,903      8,316   8,955   I
   Capitalgoods                                2,214     7,970      7,344   8,949          0

Exportprice index (1995=100)                                95         76      75              96     97 98    99     M     01   M

Importprice index (1995=100)                                90         81      80                  &Exports         .Imports
Tens of trade (1995=100)                           ..      105         94      93

BALANCEof PAYMENTSI /
                                                1982     I992       2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (%)
Exports of goods andservices                   7,818    23,343    50,403   54,608
Imports of goods and services                  9,592    26,706    45,816   55,095      ` T
Resource balance                              -1,774    -3,363      4,587    -487

Net income                                    -1,455    -1,670     -5,000  4,549
Net currenttransfers                           2,277     4,059      3,803   3,498
Currentaccountbalance                           -952      -974      3,390  -1,540
Financingitems(net)                            1,120     2,458    .18,314   1,328
Changes in net reserves                         -168    -1,484    12,924      212
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)          2,027    15,252    30.192   38.067
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocallUS$)                162.9   6.881.3 1.228.367  #######

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                               1982      1992       2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                         Compositionof 2002debt (US$ mill.)
Totaldebt outstanding anddisbursed            19,716    56,554   113,806  131,407
   IBRD                                        1,962     5,564      4,707   5,367
   IDA                                           187       148         95      89                        A: 5,367
                                                                                                G: 15.155         8: 89
Total debt service                             2,968     9,086    24,623   28,632                                         21,503
   IBRD                                          209     1,207        723     708
   IDA                                             3         6          7       7
Composition of net resourceflows                                                                                          D 10,400
   Officialgrants                                307       506          0     334
   Officialcreditors                             762     -509          74     797                                        E 6,433
   Privatecreditors                              146     3,604     -2.187   3,811
   Foreigndirectinvestment                        55       779     2,769      862
   Portfolioequity                                 0    -1,194     -4,611  -1,180
World Bankprogram
   Commitments                                   648      686      2,200    1,650      A IBRD                          E Bilateral
                                                                                                                         -
   Disbursements                                 500      286       1,537   1,031      B IDA
                                                                                         --      D Other multilateral  F Private
                                                                                                     ~



   Principalrepayments                            86      733        437      442      C-IMF                           G Short-term
                                                                                                                         --
   Netflows                                      415     -447       1,100     588
   Interest payments                             127      480         292     272
   Nettransfers                                  288     -928         808     316

ueveiopmenrtconomtcs
I /2001and2002 are basedon the newclassification.


                                                               - 66 -

Additional Annex 11:Indicative List of Renewable Energy Power Generation Prospects
                           (Small hydropowerplantsbelow50 MW)
                           TURKEY: Renewable EnergyProject




 NO       NAMEOFTHE PROJECT    INSTALLED       PRODUCTION                                       STAGE
                               CAPACITY
                                            AVERAGE    FIRM     CITYCODEAND        RIVERBASIN
                                                                     NAME

                                  OMW)       (GW)      (Gm)
  1    CAYGC~REN                       3 10        19      15 10BALIKESIR    03 SUSURL.UK        FS

  2    DEVECIKONAGI                    600        33       17 16BURSA        03 SUSLJRLUK        FS

  3    ORHANELI                       4800        161      134 16BURSA       03 SUSLJRLUK        PS

  4    WMBAY-I                         300         14          16BURSA       03 SUSURLUK         FI

  5    EMET                           28 00       78       65 ~~KUTAHYA      03 SUSURLUK         FI

  6    UCKlZLAR                        200         9           16BURSA       03 SUSLJRLUK        FI

  7    BAYRAMIC                        180         9        4 I7CANAKKALE    04KUZEYEGE          FS

  8    KARAMENDERES-I                 1080        28       17 17CANAKKALE    04KUZEYEGE          PS

  9    KARAMENDERES-I1                 540         14       9 17CANAKKALE    04KUZEYEGE          PS

  10   MADRA                           400         9           10BALIKESIR   04KUZEYEGE          FI

  11   BARAK-AFSAR-II                  400         8        0 45MANISA       OSGEDIZ             PS

  12   MARMARA                        2100        42        0 45MANISA       OSGEDIZ             PS

  13   KOCAYATAK                       200         8         1 35 IZMIR      05GEDIZ             FI

  14   ORTAKOY                        27 00       108      65 351ZMIR        OSGEDIZ             FI

  15   YENCEKENT                      2100        76         5 20DENIZLI     07 B. MENDERES      FDL

  16   FESLEK-BEREKET                  8 90       32       20 09AYDIN        07 B. MENDERES      FDL

  17   ADIGUZEL-I1                     600        27        6 20DENIZLI      078 MENDERES        FS

  18   BASARAh'                        040         2        0 09AYDIN        07 B.MENDERES       FS

  19   ERENLER                         420        22        3 20DENIZLI      07 B. MENDERES      FS

  20   GOKBEL                          560        24        6 09AYDIN        07 B.MENDERES       FS

  21   SIRMA                           720        28         5 09AyDlN       07 B.MENDERES       FS

  22   EGE 1,2,3,4                     440        25        10 2ODENIZLI     07 B.MENDERES       FS

  23   AKCAY I                        15 00       65       42 20DENIZLI      07 B. MENDERES      FI

  24   AKCAY I1                       1000        42       26 20DENIZLI      078 MENDERES        FI

  25   SARIKAVAK-DENIZLI               100         7           20DENIZLI     07B. MENDERES       FI

  26   TASCILAR                        0 40        3     -     20DENIZLI     07 B MENDERES       FI

  27   ULUBEY                         28 00       78       63 20DENIZLI      07 B.MENDERES       FI

  28   YLiKARlAKCAY                    200         15       9 48MUGLA        08 B. AKDENIZ       FDL

  29   ALAKIR                          150         12       11 07ANTALYA     08 B AKDENIZ        FS

  30   CALDERE                         800        35       22 48MUGLA        088 AKDENIZ         FS

  31   DODURGALAR1-11                  3 70        12       0 20DEMZLI       08B AKDENIZ         FS

  32   GOKYAR                         1100        43           48 MUGLA      08 B. AKDENIZ       FS

  33   AYKIRCA                         630        36        0 07ANTALYA      08 B. AKDENIZ       FS

  34   BURGULAR-GEBES                 13 00       65        0 07ANTALYA      O8B AKDENIZ         FS

  35   FINIKE                          900        52       14 07ANTALYA      08 B. AKDENIZ       FS

  36   KIZILAGAC-KARACAY1,2           23 40       65        2 07ANTALYA      08 8. AKDENIZ       FS

  37   YANMLAR 1,2                     550        33       16 48MUGLA        08 B AKDENIZ        FS

  38   CAYAGZI                         447        39       25 07ANTALYA      08 B. AKDENIZ       PS

  39   KOZDERE                         440        39        0 07ANTALYA      08 B. AKDENIZ       PS
                                            - 67 -

40   YWARLAKCAY           5 90         16       1 48MUGLA          088 AKDENIZ         PS
41   ELMALI               2.60          8   -     07ANTALYA        08 B. AKDENIZ        FI
42   YAPRAKLI             4.00          9   -     15 BURDLJR        08 B. AKDENIZ       FI
43   KOVADA-III           2.80          6      6 32ISPARTA         09ANTALYA           FDL
44   AKSU-AKDENIZ         8.90         36      9 07ANTALYA         09ANTALYA           FS
45   ANAMAS               2.35         12      2 32ISPARTA         09ANTALYA           FS
46   GOKSU                6.50         28      10 321SPARTA        09ANTALYA           FS
47   GUNWGMUS            50.00        199     115 07ANTALYA        09 ANTALYA          FS
48   UZUMDERE            21 50         75      0 07ANTALYA         09ANTALYA           FS
49   BASAK               47.00        128     86 32ISPARTA         09ANTALYA           MPS

50   DUDEN               15.00        102     45 07ANTALYA         09ANTALYA           PS
51   ZINCIRLI            16.30         72      0 07ANTALYA         09ANTALYA           PS
52   ANTALYA              3.70         13  -      07ANTALYA        09 ANTALYA          FI
53  OBACAYI               4.40         20   -     07ANTALYA        09 ANTALYA          FI
54   SAL-                 2.70         14   -     07ANTALYA        09 ANTALYA          FI
55  DOGANCAY             16.89        148     94 54SAKARYA          12SAKARYA          FDL
56  MANSURLAR1-11        12.60         61     16 54SAKARYA          12SAKARYA          FDL
57  AKCAKOY               0 45          1      o ~ ~ K ~ T A H Y A  12SAKARYA          FS
58  BESKARIS              1.00          3      o ~ ~ K ~ T A H Y A  12SAKARYA          FS
59  GoKCEIUSIK            2.00          9      2 26ESIUSEHIR        12SAKARYA          FS
60  PAZARKOY             1700          78     27 54SAKARYA          12SAKARYA          FS
61  PORSUK                390          14      8 26ESIUSEHIR        12SAKARYA          FS
62  TARAKL.1              5 0 0        I8      2 54SAKARYA          12SAKARYA          FS
63  UCCAMLITEPE           945          37     11 14BOLU             12SAKARYA          FS

64  Y~JRSE                950          36     11 14BOLU             12SAKARYA          FS
65  KAYABriKU            1200          43      9 14BOLU             12SAKARYA          MPS

66  KARAKOWLU            11 00         22  -      06"               12SAKARYA          FI

67  CAY                  25 00        125     87 67ZONGULDAK        13B. KARADENIZ     FDL
68  AFUT                 900           46      5 74BARTlN           13B. KARADENIZ     FDL
69  KIZILCAPINAR-I        150           9      3 67ZONGULDAK        13B. KARADENIZ     FS
70  TEFEN                1350          81     45 78-w               1 3 8 KARADENIZ    FS
71  AKSU (DUZCE)         4100         144     37 14BOLU             13B. KARADENIZ     FS
72  ANDIRA2              36 00         57     33 78KARABl%          13B KARADENIZ      FS
73  B MELEN              30 00        151     160 54SAKARYA         13B KARADENIZ      FS
74  BARTIN               660           41     13 74BARTlN           13B.KARADENIZ      MPS
75  CIDE                 4000         148     97 37KASTAMONU        13B. KARADENIZ     MPS
76  CUROMOREN            600           13     11 37KASTAMONU        13B. KARADENIZ     MPS
77  SUCATI               1050          69     43 78KARABLJK         13B. KARADENIZ     MPS
78  KIZILCAPINAR-11      130            9      5 67ZONGULDAK        13B. KARADENIZ     PS
79  CORBACI              3 00          12      1 37KASTAMONU       138 KARADENIZ       FI

80  DEGIRMEN~NIJ         300           14      2 37KASTAMONU       13B.KARADENIZ       FI
81  DUZCE                5 20          22         14BOLU           13B. KARADENIZ      FI
82  EGERCI               100            8      3 67ZONGULDAK       13B. KARADENIZ      FI
83  HASANLAR-KANAL       5 20          22      8 14BOLU            13B KARADENIZ       FI
84  KUZKOY               100            7      3 37KASTAMONU       13B KARADENIZ       FI
85  ALTINTEPE-SUSEHRI    4.00          24      9 58SIVAS           14YESILIRMAK        FDL
86  BEYPINARI-SUSEHRI    400           23      8 58SIVAS           14YESILIRMAK        FDL
87  KONAK-SUSEHRI        400           25     10 58SIVAS           14YESILIRMAK        FDL
88  INCESU               13.00        48      13 19CORUM           14YESILIRMAK        FS
89  KAY1BEND1            9.60         37      15 58SIVAS           14YESILIRMAK        FS

                                - 68 -

90   NlKSAR             22 40      178     145 6OTOKAT       14YESILIRMAK      FS
91   KOYULHISAR         38 20     311      304 6OTOKAT       14YESILIRMAK      MPS
92   BAYRAMHACILI       45 00     170      119 50NEVSEHIR    15KIZILIRMAK      FS
93   CORAKCIFTLIGI        700      29      15 58SIVAS        15KIZILIRMAK      FS
94   DEVELI               6 70     25      17 38KAYSERI      15KIZILIRMAK      FS
95   IMRANLI              300      11       5 58SIVAS        15KIZILIRMAK      FS
96   MUSLIMABAT           6 80     28      15 58SIVAS        15KIZILIRMAK      FS
97   OBRUCAK              300      14       6 37KASTAMONU    15 KIZILIRMAK     FS
98   TASKOPRU           1400       46      37 37KASTAMONU    15 KIZILIRMAK     FS
99   TIMARLI              700      56      57 18CANKIRI      15KvILIRMAK       FS
100  AVANOS-CEMEL         960      79      65 50NEVSEHIR     15KIZILIRMAK      FS
101  DAMLACIK           15 00      92      68 40KIRSEHIR     15KIZILIRMAK      FS
102 GELINGULLO            200      13      12 66YOZGAT       15 KIZILIRMAK     FS
103 HAMZALI             13 80     100      64 71-E           15 KIZILIRMAK     FS
104 BOZKURT              462       30      17 58SIVAS        15 KIWLIRMAK      PS
105  CERMIKLER           465       30      17 58SIVAS       15KIZILIRMAK       PS
106  OMERLERDUZU          130      10       7 58SIVAS       15KIZILIRMAK       PS
107  SARACBENDI           240      18      13 58SIVAS       15KIZILIRMAK       PS
108 TALAS                200       14         38 KAYSERI    15KIZILIRMAK       PS
109 TUZKOY              1100       54      12 50NEVSEHIR    15KIZILIRMAK       PS
110  SIVAS              1900                  58SNAS        15WLlRMAK          FI
111  APA                 500            --    42KONYA       16KONYA KAPALI     FI
112 DINEKSARAY          I O 60     30       0 42KONYA       16KONYA-KAPALI     FS
113  MAVI               25 00      84       0 42KONYA        16KONYA-KAPALI    FS
114 MGIT                 030        3   -     42KONYA       16KONYA-KAPALI     F1
115  LAMAS-III          1600       84      40 331CEL         17D.AKDENIZ       FDL
116 LAMAS-IV            22 00     109      47 33ICEL        17D.AKDENIZ        FDL
117 PAMUK               I980       81      23 33ICEL        17D. AKDENIZ       FDL
118 mu-SAHMALLAR         8 60      27       0 07ANTALYA     17D.AKDENE         FS
119 BOZKIR              15 00      36       0 42KONYA        17D. AKDENIZ      FS
120 BUCAKKISLA          23 00     125      58 70KARAMAN     17D.AKDENIZ        FS
121 KEPEZKAYA           15 00      77      44 70-           17 D.AKDENE        MPS
122 LAMAS1              1300       82      35 33ICEL        17D AKDENIZ        FS
123 LAMAs-n             I300       83      34 33ICEL        I7D.AKDENIZ        FS
124 SILIFKE-I1          41 00      81      59 331CEL        17D.AKDENE         FS
125 SUGOZU-KIZILD~JZ     900       32       3 07ANTALYA     17D. AKDENIZ       FS
126 TASKENT              500       17       0 42KONYA       17D. AKDENIZ       FS
127 AZMAK-KIRPILIK      15 50      42       9 33ICEL        17D AKDENIZ        FS
128 CEI"                48 00     165      63 800SMANIYE    17D.AKDENIZ        FS
129 DAMLAPINAR           700       35      34 7oKARAMAN     17D.AKDENIZ        MPS
130 KADINCIK-111        4000      148      73 33 ICEL       17D.AKDENIZ        FS
131 KADINCIK-IV         5000      186      92 33ICEL        17D. AKDENIZ       FS
132 PAMUKLUK            1600       58      27 33ICEL        17D.AKDENIZ        FS
133 DmC                  100        4       3 331CEL        17D AKDENIZ        FI
134 EFRENK              26 00      90      51 33 ICEL       17D.AKDENIZ        PS
135 BALKUSAN            38 00     117      77 70KARAMAN     17D. AKDENIZ       FI
136 GOKDERE             20 00     113   -     7OKARAMAN     17D. AKDENIZ       FI
137 SARIKAVAK-MUT       1420       61      53 33ICEL        17D. AKDENIZ       FI
138 TASLIBEL-MUSLUK     1200      40       21 33 ICEL       17D.AKDENIZ        FI
139 BAHCELIK            420        30      25 38KAYSERI     18SEYHAN           FS

                               69-

140  IMAMOGLU            1400         43     0 OIADANA            18SEYHAN           FS
141  MESTAS              4000        163    50 01ADANA            18 SEYHAN          FS

142  CAMLICA-II          2600        133    57 38KAYSERl          18 SEYHAN          FS

143  CAMLICA-III         25 00       123    56 38KAYSERI          18SEYHAN           FS

144  GihdISORES           5 00        12     0 38KAYSERI          18SEYHAN           FS

145  GICIK                100          5     2 38KAYSERI          18 SEYHAN          MPS

146  MESGE               33 00       113    58 01ADANA            18SEYHAN           MPS

147  TOPAKTAS             700         34    12 38KAYSERI          18SEYHAN           MPS
148  YAMANLI-I           22 00       101    34 01ADANA            18 SEYHAN          MPS

149  YAMANLI-111         3000        175    76 01ADANA            18SEYHAN           MPS

150  ASAGI KORKiJN        700         40    37 01ADANA            18SEYHAN           PS
151  EGLESCE             32 00       115    70 OIADANA            18 SEYHAN          PS
152  NUR 1-11-111        30 10       144    121 01ADANA           18SEYHAN           PS

153  ASMACA              22 00        72    62 01ADANA            18SEYHAN           FI
154  MERIH                2 50        20    18 01ADANA            18 SEYHAN          FI

155  ANDIRIN-KARGALIK    41 00       150    24 46KMARAS           20 CEYHAN          FDL

156  SULEYMANLI           4 60        19     7 46KMARAS           20CEYHAN           FDL

157  DEGIRMEMJS~~        38 00       119     2 46KMARAS           20CEYHAN           FS
158  FIRNIS               7 30        36    18 46K.MARAS          20CEYHAN           FS
159  HANCERIRMAGI         5 60        22    10 46KMARAS           20CEYHAN           FS

160  KARAPINAR            150         4      1 4 6 K M A R A S    20CEYHAN           FS

161  KAYRAN               3 20        12     4 46K.MARAS          20CEYHAN           FS
162  SABUNSUYUI1          6 50        26    13 800SMANIYE         20CEYHAN           FS

163  ZEYTIN               500         21     9 46KMARAS           20CEYHAN           FS
164  BULAM                700         24     1 02ADIYAMAN         20CEYHAN           FS
165  KARAPLJR-GOKSU       700         27     6 46KMARAS           20CEYHAN           FS

166  ANDIRINSUYU          5 20        23       46KMARAS           20CEYHAN           FI
167  ASAGIFIRNlS          400         13     6 46KMAFL4S          20CEYHAN           FI
168  CATALOLLK            720         23    10 46K.MARAS          20CEYHAN           FI
169  KMARAS              1000         27       46 KMARAS          20CEYHAN           FI
170  CAMLIHEMSIN         42 00       192    120 53RIZE            22D KARADENIZ      FDL

171  AYDER               35 00       185    63 53RIZE             22 D.KARADENIZ     FS

172  CIRAKDAMI           45 00       128    23 28GIRESUN          22D KARADENIZ      FS
173  DERELI              45 00       144    25 28GIRESUN          22 D.KARADEMZ      FS
174  DIKKAYA             25 00       118    53 53RIZE             22 D.KARADENIZ     FS

175  HISARCIK            2400         89    16 53RIZE             22D KARADEMZ       FS
176  IKISU               4000        134    72 28GIRESUN          22 D.KARADENIZ     FS

177  MACKA               35 00       124    30 61 TRAEZOS         22D.KARADENIZ      FS

178  SAMAN               20 00        56     8 61TRABZOS          22 D.KARADENIZ     FS
179 TIREBOLU             6000        114    59 28GIRESUN          22 D.KARADESIZ     FS

180  TOZKOY II           3140         60    17 53RIZE             22D.KARADENIZ      FS

181 YOKUSLU-EULWERE      3400        131    44 53RIZE             22 D.KARADESIZ     FS
182 CANKAYA              29 00       134    66 61TRABZOS          22D.KARADESIZ      PS

183 GURPINAR             5000        128    86 53RIZE             22 D.KARADESIZ     FS

184 IYISU                1300         66    22 61 TRABZOS         22 D. KARADEhlZ    PS
185 KESTANELIK           1300         61    19 61TRABZOS          22D KARADENIZ      PS

186 ADACAMl              2000        101    41 53RIZE             22D KARADESIZ      PS
187  AKK~Y-ESPIYE        1200         80    24 28GIRESUN          22 D.KARADESIZ     PS

188 ALADERECAM           7 00         18    12 ~~G~JMLISHANE      22D KARADENIZ      PS
189 AVLUCA               45 00       125    87 28GIRESUN          22 D.KARADENIZ     PS

                               - 70 -

190 BASKOY                           1000         59       24 53REE          22 D.KARADENIZ     PS

191 BOLAMAN                          1450         57       32 520RDU         22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

192 CAMAY                            1200         64       26 53RIZE         22 D.KARADENJZ     PS
193 CAWSLU                           I100         41       23 520RDU         22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

194 CILEKLITEPE                      20 w         85       49 28GIRESUN      22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

195 DOGANAY                           200          8        3 53RIZE         22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

196 W E N                            45 00       166      122 28GIRESUN      22D KARADENJZ      PS

197 KARASAY                           4 80        22        9 520RDu         22 D.KARADENIZ     PS
198 KARATAS                          1030         43       19 520RDU         22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

199 KAVSAK                           36 60       160       94 520RDu         22D KARADENJZ      PS

200 KORU                             1600         42       28 29GikviUSHANE  22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

201 KULETASI                         30 00        60       33 BGIMJSHANE     22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

202 ORTAKOY                           900         36       19 520RDU         22 D.KARADENJZ     PS

203 PASALAR                          30 00       139       56 53REE          22D KARADENJZ      PS

204  S O G W I N A R                 1200         43       33 28GIRESUN      22D KARADENJZ      PS

205 ALTINDERE                         1.20         6   -      61TRABZON      22D K A R A D W    FI
                 TOPLAM           3 074.71    12 331    5 662


     FDL (Find DesignLevel)
    FS(FeasibilityReportStage)

    MPS(Master PlanStage)
     PS (Prelmaly Study)
    FI(FirstInvestigation)




                                           -71*

AdditionalAnnex 12 Overviewof the FinancialIntermediaries:TSKB and TKB

                       TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project


 TSKB (Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi)
 TSKB    --The Turkish Industrial Development Bank was established in 1950 with the support of
 the World Bank and the Turkish Central Bank. In 1963, IFC became a shareholder by
 subscribing to 15% of the capital, but in the following years gradually divested its participation.
 TSKB is now principally owned by the leading commercial banking groups in Turkey, namely
 lsbank , Akbank, Vakiflar Bankasi, Turk Ticaret Bankasi , Garanti Bankasi and Disbank. Some
 of TSKB shares are listed on the Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) and are held by individuals. In
 2002 TSKB acquired Sinai Yatirim Bankasi (Industrial Investment Bank) , another private
 investmentbank with similar backgroundand a commonshareholder base. TSKB's mission is to
 channel medium and long-term loans to private companies and provide investment-banking
 services. TSKB conducts its business from its headquarters in Istanbul. There are two regional
 offices; one in lzmir and one in Samsun. As of February2003 TSKB had 296 employees.

 TSKB has played an active role in the development of Turkey's manufacturing and financial
 sectors. Originally focused on earnings from medium and long term lending activities, the bank
 has gradually changed it's orientation towards fee based activities; from 1996 to 2000 the bank
 was the leading underwriter of initial public offerings (IPOs) in Turkey. TSKB maintains a
 long-term loan portfolio and its loans are match funded by long-term borrowings from
 internationalinstitutions. At the end of 2002, close to 80 % of the borrowings of the bank were
 either on-lent from or guaranteed by the Turkish Treasury and close to 20% of the borrowed
 funds were providedby group banksthat were also owners of TSKB.

 TSKB utilizes the medium and long-termfunds it secures from international financial institutions,
 either as a borrower or sub-borrower, to finance industrial investments through loans and
 financial leases. TSKB has funded itselfwith loans secured from the European Investment Bank
 , the Japan Bank For International Cooperation, K W and the World Bank in order to finance
 fixed capital investmentand working capital needs of privateenterprises.

 TSKB established a Risk Management Group in the year 2000. Credit risk, market risk and
 operational risk monitoring functions have been separated. Internal Audit and Risk Monitoring
 departmentshavealso been established and are functioning.

 TSKB has equity participations in certain financial institutions with the primary purpose of
 diversifying its functions. These include Yatirim Finansman (Brokerage House), Is Leasing
 (Leasing Company), Is Faktoring (Factoring Company), TSKB Menkul Kqymetler (Brokerage
 House) and Is Risk Sermayesi (Risk CapitalCompany).

 TSKB's CAR on a consolidated basis was 22.17% at end-2001. As of end-September 2002,
 TSKB's inflationadjustedsolo CAR was 22.75. %.


 TKB (Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi)
 TKB Is a state-owned developmentand investment bankthat was established in 1975 in order to
 utilize the savings of expatriate workers to invest in industry. In 1988, after taking its present
 name, the bank's mandate was widened to include providing finance to joint-stock companies
 operating in all sectors. Turkish Treasury is the main shareholder of the bank, with 99% of
 registered capital. TKB's main business is to: (a) provide medium and long-term finance to
 medium-sizedjoint-stock companies; and (b) act as an intermediaryfor funds received from the
 Treasury by lendingto developingregions.


                                            - 72 -

TKB realizes these through, project financing, financial leasing and equity participation with
joint-stock companies in the industrial, tourism, energy, health and education sectors; with a
focus on areas identified by the government as priority regions. TKB is one of the three
state-owneddevelopmentand investment banks in Turkey. It was originally established in 1975
as DESIYAB      -  State Industrial and Workers Investment Bank with the primary objective of
utilizing savings of expatriate Turkish workers to build and operate companies, as well as
participating in their share capital. In 1988, the bank's name was changed to its present name
and it was also authorizedto providefinancialsupportto all sectors.

In Octoberl999, TKB became a joint stock company, subject to provisions of private law. The
main shareholderof the bank is Treasury with 99.08% of registeredcapital at end-2001. Private
and public companies own the remaining 1%. The members of the Board of Directors are
elected by the bank's GeneralAssembly upon suggestion of the Treasury. The General Director
of the bank is appointed by a joint decree that is signed by the Prime Minister and 2 state
ministers.

TKB, due to it's special status as a development bank, is exempt from certain banking sector
prudentialregulationssuch as provisioningrequirementsfor non-performingloans. Furthermore,
TKB as a developmentbank is not permitted to acceptdeposits.TKB 's head office is in Ankara.
In November 2001, all seven branches of the bank were closed at the request of BRSA in order
to increase efficiency. Local supervision and advisory services are coordinated by the head
office and the 23 local development units which are operating under chambers of commerce in
various regionsof Turkey. TKB had 839 employees at end-2001.

TKB's mainactivities are development and investmentbanking. TKB also extends loans through
various government-fundedincentiveschemes to provincesthat are designatedas development
regions in East and South East Anatolia and Black Sea Regions. The bank receives its funds
primarilyfrom the Turkish Treasury, lends them at its own risk, adding it's commissionfee, and
allocates the loans on a case by case basis. Treasury determines loan pricing and commissions
on these type of government-fundedloans. TKB providesconsultancyservicesto entrepreneurs
through its local development offices. TKB also provides investment banking services such as
primary and secondarypublic offerings and privatizationconsultancy.BesidesTreasuryfunding,
TKB is funded by various internationalagencies. The bank performs its capital market activities
through its subsidiary (owned 99% by TKB) Kalkinma Menkul Degerler AS., which provides
brokerage services to customers of the bank and at the same time acts as an intermediary in
initialand secondary publicofferings.

In 2001, TKB established a Risk Management Group in order to comply with the new bank
regulations. Credit risk, market risk and operational risk monitoring functions have been
separated. Internal Audit and Risk Monitoring departments were also established in 2001. The
Treasury Departmentis responsiblefor applicationof market risk managementpolicies, carrying
on future risk analysis and calculationof duration. TKB calculatesmarket risk usingthe standard
method and reports are sent to BRSA on a monthly basis. VaR analysis and stress testing are
beingdeveloped and applied internally.The Asset LiabilityCommitteemeets weekly to establish
guidelines in line with risk management policies and the business plansof the bank.

Since TKB is a development bank, there is no regulatory limit set by the Banking Law on loan
allocations. However,the Board of Directorsdetermineslimits accordingto its own credit policies
in line with the limitationsof the BankingLaw. Accordingly, cash and non-cash loans to a single
borrower cannot exceed 20% of the bank's equity and loansto one group cannot exceed 75% of
equity. As an investmentbank, TKB cannot accept retail and corporatedeposits but has a stable
funding base provided by the Turkish Treasury and international banks because of its special
status. Treasury is the major funding source for the bank. TKB also raises funds through
international bond issues and also through buyer-sellerlines of credit obtainedfrom international
banks of the related countries. There are also bilateral lines available to the bank from


                                           - 73 -

internationalbanks. All internationalobligationsof TKB are guaranteed by treasury.

TKB' s regulatorycapital adequacy ratio (CAR) was 77.11% at end-2001, whereas its Tier ICAR
was 55.77%. The bank's high capital is somewhat offset by substantial non-performing loans,
nevertheless capital adequacy reduces only to 67% when existing NPLs are reserved 100%. As
of end-September 2002, TKB's CAR was 83%. The prudential regulations set by the Banking
regulatory and SupervisoryAgency (BRSA) calls for a minimum CAR of 8%




                                          - 74 -

            Additional Annex 13: Summary Assessment of TSKB and TKB Eligibility
                                          TURKEY: Renewable Energy Project

Assessment of TSKB and TKB Eligibility per World Bank ECA Region Guidelines for Financial
Intermediary Operations

A.          Compliance of TSKB with the ECA Regional Guidelines

                            World Bank
          ECA Region Guidelinesfor Financial                                                    TSKB
                  IntermediaryOperations
1.I, bank beenduly licencedand at leasttwo years in
      Hasthe                                                       TSKB was established in 1950with the support of the World
operation                                                          bank and the Govemmentof Turkey. TSKB is the oldest
                                                                   investmentand development bank in Turkey.
1.2.Are the Banks owners and managersconsideredfit and             The major shareholder of the bank isT.ls BankasiAS. with
proper                                                             37% ownership at the end of 2001. The Banks remaining
                                                                   shares belong mainlyto other banks (5) operating in Turkey.
                                                                   The qualifications of the managersof the bank comply with
                                                                   the "Regulationfor the establishmentand Operations of
                                                                   banks" published by BDDKon June 27,2001.
1.3.1s the bankin "goodstanding"with itssupervisoryauthorit)       Banks operating in Turkey are requiredto send monthly
(i.e. it should meetall pertinentprudentialand other applicable    prudentialreturnsto BDDK.The criteria includes"Risk
lawsand regulations)                                               weighted capital adequacy ratio","Singleclient exposure
                                                                   expressedas a percentageof the banksregulatorycapital
                                                                   base". "single group of connectedclients exposure expressed
                                                                   as a percentageof the Banks regulatorycapital base", ?he
                                                                   total of single clients and group of connected clients
                                                                   exposureswhose individualrisks exceed 10%of the capital
                                                                   baseof the bank,expressed as a percentageof the Banks
                                                                   regulatorycapitalbase","the total exposuresto insiders",
                                                                   "exposures inthe form of equity holdingsor participations in
                                                                   non-financialentities", "foreigncurrency exposure expressed
                                                                   as a percentageof the banks regulatory capital base". TSKB
                                                                   has been in compliancewith all criteria exceptfor "single
                                                                   client exposure expressed as a percentageof the Banks
                                                                   regulatorycapital base".The requirementis max 25% as per
                                                                   banking law and as at 30.09.2003TSKBs percentageis
                                                                   28.40%. Howeversince the bank is not a deposittakingbank
                                                                   itdoes not haveto complywith this limit.
1.4. Doesthe bank maintainat leastthe minimumcapital               Yes. The minimumrequirementas per BRSA is 8%. TSKB
prescribedby prudentialregulations,of which at least half is       hasa ratioof 22.75% as at September 30,2002.
Tier 1 capital? Itsrisk-basedcapitaladequacyratio should be
at least 8 percent. (In principle,the risk-basedcapital adequac
ratio used in the eligibilitycriteria should comply with the capita
adequacy ratio prescribedby prudentialregulationsfor the
respectivecountry.)
1.5.Doesthe bank have adequateliquidity?                           The auditorsissued an unqualifiedopinion on the Banks
                                                                   financialstatements preparedin accordancewith Banking law
                                                                   which stipulatescompliancewith standard ratios which cover
                                                                   liquidity as well.
1.6. Doesthe bank havepositiveprofitabilifyandacceptable           YeS
riskprofile? It must maintainthe value of itscapital.
1.7. Doesthe bank classifvits assets and off-balance sheet         The bank complieswith the prudential regulationsand loan
credit risk exposures(at leastfour times peryear) and make         lossprovisioning requirementsas stipulated in the Banking
adequateprovisions. It must have adequateportfolioqualify?         Law.
1.8. Doesthe bank havewell defined wlicies andwritten              The Bank has a Risk ManagementGroup established in
proceduresfor managemenfofallfybes offinancialrisks. It            order to comply with the banking regulations.One Board
musthavequalifiedandexperiencedmanagement,adequate                 member is solely responsiblefor risk managementand the
organizationand institutionalcapacity for its specific risk        credit risk, marketrisk and operational risk monitoring
profile?                                                           functions have beenseparated.
1.9. Doesthe bank haveadequateintemalaudits and controls The Bank has an intemalaudit department reporting directly
for its specific risk profile?                                     to the GeneralManager.Thereare adequate internalcontrol
                                                                   procedures in place.
1.IO. Doesthe bankhaveadequatemanagementinformation                The Bank has updated managementinformationsystems in



                                                                   - 75 -

I svstems?                                                           I olace.                                                     I

  2.1. Per paragraph 10of OP 10.02, is the financial intermediary Annualfinancial informationisobtainedfrom the beneficiary
 ableto ensure that sub-borrowershave accounting and intemal enterprisesand evaluated by the analysisdepartment of
 controlsadequateto providefinancial informationon                    TSKB. The informationwill also be madeavailableto IBRD.
  implementationperformance?
 2.2. Per paragraph 5 of BP 10.02,are the financial                  Yes.
  management arrangementsof the financial intermediaries
  described in the PAD? (If PFls not selected at the time of
 appraisal,this cannot befulfilled)
 2.3. Per paragraph3 of BP 10.02, hasthe Bank reviewedthe TSKB hasfinancial statements prepared in accordancewith IAZ
  PFl's lastthree years' auditedfinancial statements?                and the auditors (memberfirm of KPMG in Turkey) have issued
                                                                     unqualifiedaudit opinionsfor the years ended 31 December
                                                                     2001,2000and 1999.Thesestatements have been made
                                                                     availableto the Bank.
 2.4. Per paragraph 3 of OP 10.02, is the financial                  The appointmentof the auditorsfor 2003 is requiredto be
 intermediaryto beauditedannually by auditors acceptableto           completed by May 30,2003.The legal agreementwill include
 the Bankin accordancewith TORSand standards acceptable the audit clause infinancial covenants.




  B.          Complianceof TKB with the ECA RegionalGuidelines

                            World Bank
            ECA RegionGuidelinesfor Financial                                                       TKB
                   IntermediaryOperations
  1.I. bank beenduly licencedand at leasttwo years in
        Hasthe                                                        TKB isestablishedin 1975as a developmentand investment
 operation                                                            bank.
  1.2.Arethe Banks owners and managersconsideredfit and               Major shareholderof the bank is the Undersectretariatof
 proper                                                               Treasurywith 99.08%ownership. The qualifications of the
                                                                      managersof the bankcomply with the "Regulationfor the
                                                                      establishmentand Operationsof Banks" published by BDDK
                                                                      on June 27,2001.
  1.3.1sthe bank in "goodstanding"with its supervisoryauthority Banksoperating in Turkey are required to send monthly
  (i.e. it should meetall pertinentprudentialand other applicable     prudential retumsto BDDK.The criteriaincludes "Risk
  lawsand regulations)                                                weighted capitaladequacyratio", "Singleclient exposure
                                                                      expressed as a percentageof the banksregulatorycapital
                                                                      base", "singlegroup of connectedclientsexposure expressed
                                                                      as a percentageof the Banks regulatory capital base", "the
                                                                      total of single clients and group of connected clients
                                                                      exposures whose individualrisksexceed 10%of the capital
                                                                      base of the bank,expressed as a percentageof the Banks
                                                                      regulatorycapital base", "thetotal exposures to insiders",
                                                                      "exposuresintheform of equity holdings or participationsin
                                                                      non-financialentities","foreign currency exposure expressed
                                                                      as a percentageof the banks regulatory capital base". TKB
                                                                      has been in compliancewith all criteria.
  1.4. Doesthe bank maintainat leastthe minimumcapital                Yes. The minimum requirementas per BRSA is 8%. TKB has
 prescribedby prudentialregulations,of which at least halfas          a ratioof 83% as at September30,2002.
 Tier 1capital? Itsrisk-basedcapitaladequacyratio should be
 at least 8 percent. (In principle,the risk-basedcapital adequac)
 ratio used in the eligibilitycriteria should comply with the capital
 adequacy ratio prescribedby prudential regulationsfor the
 respectivecountry.)
  1.5. Doesthe bankhave adequateliquidiw                              The auditors issuedan unqualifiedopinion onthe Banks
                                                                      financial statements preparedin accordancewith the Banking
                                                                      law which stipulates compliancewith standard ratioswhich
                                                                      cover liquidityas well.
  I.6.Doesthebankhavepositiveprofitabilifyandaccepfable               YeS
 riskpmfile? It must maintainthe value of itscapital.
  1.7. Doesthe bank classify its assets and off-balance sheet         The bank complieswith the prudential regulationsand loan
 credit risk exposures (at leastfour times peryear) and make          loss provisioningrequirementsas stipulated in the Banking
 adequateprovisions. Itmust have adequate porffolio quality?          Law.
 1.8. Doesthe bank havewell defined policiesand written               The Bank has a Risk ManagementGroup established in



                                                                      - 76 -

proceduresfor managementofall types offinancialrisks. It      order to complywith the banking regulations.One Board
must havequalifiedand experiencedmanagement, adequate         memberis solely responsiblefor risk managementand the
organization and institutional capacityfor itsspecific risk   credit risk, market risk and operational risk monitoring
profile?                                                      functions have been separated.
1.9. Doesthe bank have adequateintemalauditsand controls The Bank has Boardof Auditorsand InternalControl
for itsspecificrisk profile?                                  Department. IC Departmentworks on controlswhich includes
                                                              faults and deficienciesinprocedureson a daily basis. Board
                                                              of Auditors audit alltransactionsand activities.
1.I Doesthe bank have adequatemanagementinformafion
    0.                                                        The Bank has updatedmanagementinformationsystems in
systems?                                                      place.

2.1. Per paragraph 10of OP 10.02,is the financial intermedia0 Annualfinancial informationis obtainedfrom the beneficiary
able to ensure that sub-borrowers haveaccountingand internal enterprises and isevaluated bythe analysisdepartmentof
controls adequateto providefinancialinformationon             TKB. The informationwill also be madeavailableto IBRD.
implementation performance?
2.2. Per *oaraaraoh 5 of BP 10.02.are the financial
              - .                                            'es.
managementarrangementsof the financialintermediaries
described inthe PAD? (If PFls not selected at the time of
appraisal,this cannot befulfilled)
2.3. Per paragraph3 of BP 10.02, hasthe Bank reviewedthe     'KB hasfinancial statementsprepared inaccordancewith the
PFl's lastthree years' auditedfinancial statements?          anking law. The auditors haveissued unqualifiedaudit opinions
                                                             )r the years ended31 December2001,2000 and 1999.
2.4. Per paragraph 3 of OP 10.02,is the financial            'he appointmentof independentauditors acceptableto the
intermediaryto be auditedannually by auditorsacceptableto    lankfor TKB isa conditionof effectivenes.
the Bank in accordancewith TORSand standards acceotable
to the Bank?




                                                             - 77 -


