Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY
 
January 17, 2003 
 
Mr. Ersen Ekren 
Director General 
General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  
The Undersecretariat of Treasury 
Ankara, Republic of Turkey 
 
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Preparation of Renewable Energy Project 
 
Grant Number TF051629                                                             
Dear Sir: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the 
Government of Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding four hundred eighty three 
thousand United States Dollars (US$483,000) (the Grant) to Republic of Turkey (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber 
Country Director, Turkey 
Country Department VI 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
Page  2
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By: /s/ Seven Yucel 
 Authorized 
Representative 
Title: Acting Deputy Director General 
Date: January 23, 2003 
 
Page  3
cleared and cc:  R. Mehta (LOAG1), O. Hayat (TFO), Z. Farooq (ACTTF),  
S. Battacharya (ECSCS), D. Barlas (LEGEC) 
 
Page  4
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
1.1. 
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Renewable 
Energy Project, which has as main objective to increase privately owned and operated distributed 
power generation from renewable sources in the Recipient’s territory, in order to encourage more 
environmentally friendly energy production (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which 
the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a)  Establishing methodology, criteria and regulations to evaluate, screen and license 
renewable energy plants
.
Provision of goods and technical assistance for: (i) preparation of 
regulations to be issued by the Energy Market Regulatory Authority (EMRA) defining the criteria for 
“qualified renewable generation projects” and including a workshop to discuss issues with NGOs; 
(ii) validation of MENR river basin studies model to ensure optimum economic and environmental 
impact selection of small hydro generation sites, and testing of the model on 1 or 2 river basins; and 
(iii) establishment of systems to collect, process, and disseminate information on prospective 
renewable energy projects, including software and hardware equipment, which is estimated to cost 
US$368,500 equivalent; and 
 
(b)  Establishing detailed environmental impact assessment procedures for small hydro and 
wind energy generation projects
.
Provision of technical assistance for: (i) a review of existing 
environmental guidelines and procedures used to prepare Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) 
for renewable energy projects in the Recipient’s territory, to determine their consistency with 
international best practice and the Bank’s standards, and make modifications to the guidelines if 
necessary; (ii) preparation of revised guidelines for EIAs of renewable energy projects if needed; and 
(iii) completion of sample EIAs for two candidate projects in accordance with revised guidelines, 
which is estimated to cost US$114,500 equivalent. 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the 
progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank 
to visit the territory of the Republic of Turkey for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation 
on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and 
goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2. The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
Page  5
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
Item
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services  
 
461,000 
100% 
 
(2) Training  
 
15,000 
100% 
 
(3) Goods 
 
7,000
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85% of local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally 
 
TOTAL 
 
483,000
For purposes of this paragraph: 
 
(a)  the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Republic of Turkey for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Republic of Turkey; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures, 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Republic of Turkey is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures; and 
 
(c) 
the term “training” means the cost of workshops, related travel expenditures, boarding, 
lodging and per diem allowances. 
 
Page  6
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or 
services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after July 8, 2003 or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date) . However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by the Bank within four months after the 
Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed by the authorized representative of the Recipient 
authorized by the General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations of the Undersecretariat of 
Treasury of the Recipient; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign 
withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  
Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such 
amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account 
only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less 
than US$50,000 equivalent each; (c) training under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent 
each; and (d) goods, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in the Central Bank of Turkey on terms and 
Page  7
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.  
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or 
(d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Project. 
Page  8
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short list of 
consultants for services for assisting with the preparation of a renewable energy project under 
paragraph 1.1 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and 
footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for assisting with the preparation of a renewable energy project, including: the 
economic analysis of renewable energy projects; technical review of projects and validation; of 
basin modeling studies; preparation of regulations and licensing support for renewables; 
establishment of systems to collect, process, and disseminate information on prospective renewable 
energy projects; environmental review and procedures for small hydro projects; and the 
development of risk management and project finance guidelines of the Annex estimated to cost 
less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for assisting with the preparation of a renewable 
energy project, including: environmental review and procedures for wind energy projects; 
renewable energy project appraisal under paragraph 1.1 (a) and (b) of the Annex shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and services related to establishment of systems to collect, 
process, and disseminate information on prospective renewable energy projects under paragraph 1.1 
(a) of the Annex may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Page  9
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months during the execution of the Activities, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from 
time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be 
selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished 
to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth 
in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the 
word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations.” 
Page  10
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, services and training  required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account 
under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
Page  11
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
