                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001319



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-72210)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF

                             US $ 202.03 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                       FOR A

                       RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT



                                 March 9, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Turkey Country Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective 11/16/09)

                     Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
                           1.00 = US$ 0.68
                          US$ 1.00 = 1.47

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1- December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOO    Build Own Operate Agreement
BOT    Build Own Transfer Agreement
BDDK   Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Agency
CTF    Clean Technology Fund
DSI    State Hydraulic Agency (of Turkey)
EA     Environmental Assessment
EMRA   Electricity Market Regulatory Authority (of Turkey)
EÜA    Electricity Generating Company (of Turkey)
GWh    Gigawatt hour
kWh    kilowatt hour
MENR   Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MW     Megawatt
PDO    Project Development Objective
SPDF   Special Purpose Debt Facility
TEDA   Turkish Electricity Distribution Company
TEIA   Turkish Electricity Transmission Company
TETA   Turkish Electricity Trading and Contracting Company
TKB    Turkish Development Bank
TOOR   Transfer of Operating Rights
TSKB   Turkish Industrial Development Bank
TWh    Terawatt hour




                     Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                   Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
                    Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech
               Project Team Leader: Gurhan Ozdora
                  ICR Team Leader: Fan Zhang
                                                TURKEY
                                          Renewable Energy Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 24
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 27
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 29
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 33
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 34
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 39
  MAP (TUR33501) to be inserted before the Printshop
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Renewable Energy
Country:                Turkey                  Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P072480                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72210
ICR Date:               03/10/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          TURKEY
Original Total
                        USD 202.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 201.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 201.0M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 TSKB
 Turkiye Kalkinma Bankasi (TKB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/07/2002     Effectiveness:             07/30/2004       07/30/2004
Appraisal:            03/14/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/25/2004     Mid-term Review:           01/14/2008       01/14/2008
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2010       06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           No                                             Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                    10
Micro- and SME finance                                               40                   30
Renewable energy                                                     50                   70


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                       29                   50
Legal institutions for a market economy                              28                   10
Other financial and private sector development                       29                   30
Water resource management                                            14                   10

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou              Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Ulrich Zachau                       Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                    Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora                 Ranjit J. Lamech
ICR Team Leader:           Fan Zhang
ICR Primary Author:        Fan Zhang


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objective is to increase privately owned and operated distributed power
generation from renewable sources, without the need for government guarantees, within
the market-based framework of the new Turkish Electricity Market Law.




                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target       Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
                Increase in the amount of electricity produced from privately owned renewable
Indicator 1 :
                generations facilities under normal hydraulic and wind conditions.
                                            2006 - 2040 GWh
Value
                                            2007 - 2590 GWh
quantitative or 1490 Gwh                                                      3810 GWh
                                            2008 - 3140 GWh
Qualitative)
                                            2009 - 3690 GWh
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                The target for this indicator was exceeded by about 7%. The increase in
(incl. %
                renewable energy generation is 2356 GWH versus a target of 2200 GWH.
achievement)
                Increase in Generation Capacity of Privately Owned renewable generation
Indicator 2 :
                facilities
                                            2006 - 473 MW
Value
                                            2007 - 598 MW
quantitative or 348 MW                                                        966.5 MW
                                            2008 - 723 MW
Qualitative)
                                            2009 - 848 MW
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
                The target for this indicator was exceeded by 23%. The increase in renewable
(incl. %
                generation capacity is 618.5 MW versus a target of 500 MW.
achievement)
                Annual decrease in carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in metric tons as a result
Indicator 3 :
                of increased renewable energy generation resulting from the project.
Value
quantitative or 550,000 tons                932,000 tons                      1,690,750
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/31/2009                        12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The target for this indicator was exceeded by 100%.
achievement)
                Amount of private capital raised for every dollar of World Bank financing
Indicator 4 :
                through the Special Purpose Debt Facility.
Value
quantitative or 0                           1.48                              2.65
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/30/2004                    12/31/2009                        09/07/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The target for this indicator was exceeded by 79%.
achievement)



                                               iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                           Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised
                                             approval                             Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                            documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Commitments of Funds by TKB and TSKB
Value
(quantitative     0                        $ 200 Million                        $200 Million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/30/2004               12/31/2008                           12/13/2008
Comments
                  After the procurement issues were resolved in mid 2006, by amending the project
(incl. %
                  agreement, the project moved very fast.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/18/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/09/2004            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      1.01
  3     05/24/2005            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                      3.99
  4     01/04/2006            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             16.35
  5     07/25/2006            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory             30.84
  6     03/29/2007            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    80.11
  7     04/18/2008            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                   119.43
  8     04/07/2009         Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory               185.33


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 iv
I. Disbursement Profile




                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country Background: Until the recent global financial crisis in 2008, Turkey experienced a
long period of brisk growth dating back to the recovery from the 2001 banking crisis. During the
period of 2002-07, economic growth was nearly 7 percent on average; inflation was brought
down to single digit levels, and public debt fell to below 40 percent of GDP. Turkey's impressive
economic growth is largely due to the sustained stabilization, strong fiscal discipline, and the
Government's ambitious structural reform agenda. The prospect of Turkey's European Union
accession has remained a key anchor of the ongoing political and economic reforms.

Sector Background: Since 1996, the Turkish Government has embarked on a comprehensive
electricity reform program that aims to establish a competitive electricity market with the goal to
increase private investment, improve supply- and demand-side efficiency, and ensure energy
supply security in an environmentally sustainable manner.

At project appraisal, important progress had been made in reforming the power sector, with
advisory and investment lending support from the Bank, although significant challenges
remained. The originally vertically-integrated state owned electricity monopoly (TEK) had been
split into two state owned companies: a generation and transmission company (TEAS) and a
distribution company (TEDAS). In 2001, the Government passed the Electricity Market Law
(Law 4628) which inter alia further split TEAS into three companies: the Turkish Electricity
Transmission Company (TEIAS), the Turkish Electricity Trading and Contracting Company
(TETAS) and the Electricity Generating Company (EUAS). It also established the Electricity
Market Regulatory Agency (EMRA), as an independent regulatory commission which provides
generating licenses and sets tariffs. The law also laid the basis for the establishment of a
wholesale electricity market and gradual opening of the retail electricity market.

At the same time, the sector faced three major challenges:

The first challenge was to establish a sustainable framework for private investment such
that commercial risk for new generation investment was borne by the market. There had
been several approaches employed in the past to obtain private investment in generation,
including the Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) Model, the Build-Own-Operate Model (BOO), the
Auto-Producer Model and the Transfer of Operating Rights Model (TOOR). The first three
models (BOT, BOO, Auto-producer) had been used to obtain private investment in new power
plants. The TOOR model was used to transfer existing generating assets and distribution
companies to private investors. The BOT and BOO approaches attracted substantial new
investment in power plants. However, the energy prices from BOT plants were high. The auto-
producer model, which is essentially a form of self-generation employed by industries who also
sell surplus energy to the national grid, was in many respects, the most successful as it had
created a substantial amount of capacity without any associated liabilities. However, its use was
limited in that it was primarily aimed at self-generation and not for supplying the outside market
(although after the establishment of the wholesale market in 2006, some of this generation has
been sold in the market).




                                                 1
The second challenge was to quickly implement critical reform steps in order to achieve a
smooth reform transition. Several critical steps needed to be taken, including:

    ·   Resolving the problems of inadequate tariffs and revenue deficits in the power sector.
    ·   Dealing with the potential stranded costs that arose from the above-market price contracts
        signed with BOT and BOO project sponsors.
    ·   Achieving regulatory certainty and clarity.
    ·   Coordinating reform implementation across multiple agencies, including the Ministry of
        Energy and Natural Resources (MENR), Electricity Market Regulatory Authority
        (EMRA), Treasury, Privatization Agency, TEIAS, TETAS, EUAS and TEDAS.

The third challenge was to ensure that economic renewable energy resources are adequately
and safely exploited to meet domestic energy demand. Turkey is well-endowed with
renewable energy resources, especially hydropower, in contrast to its general lack of fossil fuels.
Potential generation from hydropower is estimated at about 126 TWh of which 112 TWh would
be from large hydropower plants and 14.1 TWh in small plants. The Department of State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) had made considerable progress in exploiting the larger hydropower sites
but relatively little progress had been made in developing the smaller ones. Turkey is also rich in
wind, geothermal and solar resources (mostly unexploited at project appraisal). It was estimated
that Turkey had the potential for up to 11,000 MW of wind capacity, capable of generating about
25 TWh of electricity per year, and about 2450 MW of geothermal capacity.

Rational for Bank Involvement: The Renewable Energy Project was prepared at the specific
request of the Government, to address the first and third challenges identified above. The project
would assist the Government in establishing a financial intermediation mechanism that would
encourage private investment in electricity generation within the new market structure without
requiring government guarantees and to expand the economic utilization of Turkey's abundant
renewable energy resources.

By pioneering a new financing mechanism and supporting institutional development activities for
the introduction of laws, mechanisms and procedures for private investment in renewable energy,
the project would help Turkey in mobilizing additional sources of financing from commercial
banks and international financial institutions to provide long-term financing for renewable energy
development. In line with the focus of the World Bank's assistance program in Turkey, the
project would also support convergence with the EU on environmental and renewable energy
targets, and fiscal stabilization by spurring private investment in power generation without
government having to take on additional liabilities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stated that the project development objective (PDO) was
"to increase privately owned and operated distributed power generation from renewable sources,
without the need for government guarantees, and within the market-based framework of the new
Turkish Electricity Market Law." The PDO stated in the Loan Agreement was to "expand
privately owned and operated distributed power generation from renewable sources within the
market-based legal framework."

The project objective would "be achieved by establishing a commercial financing mechanism for
renewable energy projects and demonstrating the feasibility of private development of economic
and financially viable renewable energy projects within a competitive market framework".



                                                 2
Three key performance indicators were identified at approval. They are:

    (a) Increase in the (i) amount of electricity produced from privately owned renewable
        generation facilities under normal hydraulic and wind conditions (measured in kWh per
        year); and (ii) renewable energy generating capacity added to system (measured in MW).

    (b) Reduction in emissions of carbon dioxide (measured in tons per year) as a result of
        substituting renewable energy produced by the private sector for energy produced from
        fossil fuels.

    (c) Amount of private capital raised for every dollar of World Bank financing through the
        Special Purpose Debt Facility (Leverage Ratio).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Neither the PDO nor the Key Indicators were revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main direct beneficiaries of the project are private investors in renewable generation projects
in Turkey who benefited from an expanded availability of long-term financing either directly
from the loan or as a result of the demonstration effect of the project. The population in Turkey
benefited from (i) additional non-polluting energy from domestic resources; and (ii) increased
employment opportunity through the construction, operation and maintenance of the new
renewable power plants. The two participating financial institutions benefited from increased
capacities in renewable energy financing. The Government benefited from reduced fiscal risks
due to reduced government guarantees on private investment in the power sector. The Global
community benefited from the reduced greenhouse gas emissions.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project has one main component - the Special Purpose Debt Facility (SPDF) for renewable
generation financing in the amount of US$ 202.3 million. The SPDF is a term lending facility
established and operated by two financial intermediaries (Fls). The two Fls selected are: (a) the
Turkish Industrial Development Bank (TSKB) (privately owned); and (b) the Turkish
Development Bank (TKB) (Government owned). The World Bank loan for the SPDF was on-
lent from the Turkish Treasury (the Borrower) to the Fls. The Fls would utilize the SPDF to
provide long-term debt financing to private sponsors of renewable energy projects. The SPDF
was intended to leverage equity investment from local private developers, export credit financing
and other financing for the construction and operation of qualified renewable generation projects.

In addition, in order to support the implementation of the Project, the Government agreed to a
number of institutional development activities, including (a) improving the collection, evaluation
and dissemination of technical data and information about potential renewable project sites to
prospective private sector developers; (b) development of renewable energy legislation; and (c)
improving public private cooperation in developing hydropower. The Bank provided support and
assistance to the Government to pursue these institutional development activities.



                                                 3
1.6 Revised Components

The original component was not revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

Amendments to the Loan Agreement. The loan agreement was amended in 2006 at the
Borrower's request. The amendment increased the capacity limit of hydro projects from 50 MW
to 100 MW (limits on the reservoir size and the volume remained the same), and the maximum
loan size for each single subproject from US$20 million to US$40 million. The international
competitive bidding (ICB) threshold for civil works was raised from US$ 8 million to US$ 15
million, and a maximum of US$15 million was allowed to finance civil works carried out by a
sponsor-related construction firm. In the original project design, the procurement guidelines did
not allow financing of construction by a renewable project sponsor's affiliated construction
subsidiary/firm. Details of these changes are discussed in section 2.2.

Revision to the Operational Manual. The Operational Manual (OM) for the Project was also
amended in 2006 to reflect the above changes, and also to clarify safeguards arrangements with
regard to the financing of Environment Category A subprojects, and to include procedures for
dealing with land acquisition and resettlement acceptable to the Bank. Details of the changes to
environmental and social safeguards requirement are discussed in section 2.4.

Schedule. The loan was fully disbursed and closed about ten months ahead of the scheduled
closing date.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Soundness of Background Analysis. Project background analysis was thorough and focused on
identifying issues critical to the scaling up of renewable energy resources. Based on lessons
learned from previous Bank operations, the following criteria were identified as being important
for project design: (a) moving beyond "one-of-a-kind" demonstration projects and/or pilot
projects for grid-connected renewable power generation projects; (b) developing a pipeline of
prospective renewable power generation projects to facilitate the implementation efforts by
financial intermediaries and to sustain the interest of private investors; (c) requiring private power
developers to put up a reasonable amount of equity towards each proposal to be supported by
Bank funds; (c) keeping design as flexible as possible, with a minimum number of restrictions on
terms and conditions of the loan.

Assessment of Project Design. The project design was simple and focused on utilizing
established financial intermediaries to channel funds to private developers. The strategic choice
of utilizing local financial institutions (both private and government owned), rather than
ministries or quasi government agencies, to implement the project proved to be successful.
Moreover, the participant FIs supported the goal of power sector reform, which is to shift as much
of the responsibility and decision making as possible to the private sector.




                                                  4
Concurrent institutional development activities aimed at putting in place an appropriate
legislature and regulatory framework also contributed to the positive results of the project. For
instance, the development of the Renewable Energy Law and revisions to related legislation and
the development of procedures for obtaining Water-Use Rights Agreements - ensured that
economic and financially viable renewable energy projects would be developed in a competitive
market framework.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment. The Government's commitment to, and ownership
of, the Project was strong at all times. The Turkish government has made a strong push to bolster
the country's power supply from renewable resources in recent years. The Ministry of Energy and
Natural Resources (MENR) specifically requested the development of the Project to promote the
utilization of renewable energy resources. During project implementation, MENR was
responsible for the development of the Renewable Energy Law, as well as revisions to related
legislation. Based upon feedback from investors and financial institutions, the Renewable Energy
Law was amended in 2007 through the Energy Efficiency Law, to increase the tariff level for
renewable generation, which in the original Law was set by EMRA as the previous year's average
wholesale electricity in Turkey, to 5-5.5/ kWh and to increase the offtake period from 7 to 10
years. As discussed in section 3.2, the Renewable Energy Law and its Amendment provided
strong incentives for private sponsors to develop renewable energy. During project
implementation, DSI also provided much of the support work on project pipeline development,
and conducted tasks associated with review and evaluation of project applications from private
sponsors, issuance of water rights, and technical monitoring of implementation.

Assessment of Risks. The risks identified at appraisal include: (a) the inability of EMRA to
provide timely and consistent regulation, including efficient processing of project license
application, and to ensure that retailers buy from renewable energy suppliers. The risk was
mitigated through on-going dialogue with the Government to ensure the regulatory independence
of EMRA, continued assistance in developing and implementing the regulatory framework as part
of the overall World Bank support to Turkey. (b) Lack of economically and financially attractive
renewable energy projects. The risk was reduced by identifying at appraisal a pipeline of
potentially viable projects that met the required financial and economic rates of return. (c) Lack
of willingness of retailers to purchase energy on long term contracts from small renewable energy
generators. The risk was adequately addressed after EMRA issued an amendment to its licensing
regulations requiring retailers to purchase electricity from small renewable energy generators as
long as it is at or below the market price.

The lack of risk appetite of TKB and TSKB to finance renewable energy projects was correctly
identified at appraisal ­ renewable energy was a complex line of business for most financial
institutions, requiring specific sets of project evaluation and engineering skills that most banks
did not ordinarily carry ­ although no specific mitigation measure was undertaken. During project
implementation, both TKB and TSKB initially adopted conservative corporate lending criteria
which required high levels of sponsor collateral ­ this approach arose primarily from prudential
norms that banks are expected to follow in Turkey. In a later stage, TSKB accepted the new
renewable generating plant as collateral with also a pledge of its accounts receivable after the
project construction was completed; any additional collateral would usually be dropped after the
plant went into operation. TKB followed similar practice to accept as collateral typically 25
percent of the plants future revenue as collateral after the construction of the plant was completed.
It should be noted that it is possible that high collateral demands have deterred small firms with
low collateral value from obtaining access to the loan especially in the early stage of the project.




                                                 5
Finally, it was not predicted at project appraisal that (i) the enactment of the Renewable Energy
Law was delayed and that prospective sponsors held back investment while waiting for the
passing of the Law; and (ii) the Bank procurement guidelines limited the utilization of the loan by
the private sector. Despite sound project preparation and design, these unforeseen factors
contributed to the slow start up of the project, as discussed in section 2.2 below.

QAG Assessment: A Quality-at-Entry assessment was made in July 2005. The assessment rated
the quality at entry as Satisfactory overall, and on every major quality dimension, namely the
Strategic Relevance and Approach, Technical, Financial and Economic aspects, Poverty, Gender
and Social Development, Environmental Aspects, Fiduciary Aspects, Policy and Institutional
Aspects, Implementation Arrangements, Risk assessment and Bank Inputs and Processes.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project became effective in 2004. Each FI had prepared an operational manual (OM) with the
Bank's assistance. A major issue that arose during the preparation of these OMs was with regard
to the eligibility of projects on international waterways. The issue was resolved after the Bank
and Treasury agreed on a list of basins where the loan would finance hydropower projects.

The project started slowly. As of April 2006, only 10 percent of the loan had been disbursed. The
slow progress was due to delays in the approval of the Renewable Energy Law, the difficulties in
implementing the arrangements made for the purchase of renewable power (see section 5.2), and
also the difficulties in applying Bank procurement practices (mainly designed for government
entities) to the private sector. For instance, the original procurement process in the project design
did not allow the Bank loan to finance civil works undertaken by a sponsor-related entity. This
policy significantly limited the number of project sponsors that TKSB and TKB could work with,
because most renewable energy developers in Turkey were also construction companies and
would prefer to undertake the civil works themselves.

In addition, the Bank had placed limits on the amount of financing that could be provided to a
single project or sponsor, and limits for the use of commercial practices for procurement of
equipment (US$5 million) and civil works (US$8 million). 1 The comparatively low thresholds,
in addition to the restrictions on the type of civil works contracts that the loan could finance, led
to the terms being unattractive for potential investors.

In 2006, the Treasury and the Bank agreed to amend the loan agreement to allow for these
measures to expedite project implementation:

    ·   Increasing the capacity limit for hydro projects from 50 MW to 100 MW, while retaining
        the original limits on the reservoir size and the reservoir volume. In parallel with the
        increased project size and the project condition to finance up to 50 percent of the sub-
        projects, the maximum loan size for any project was increased from US$20 million to
        US$ 40 million. Accompanying changes in safeguards requirements and Bank review
        procedures were also made.


1
  These were the highest thresholds allowed for commercial practices under prevailing Bank-wide
procurement guidelines.


                                                   6
    ·   The ICB threshold for civil works was increased from US$8 million to US$ 15 million.

    ·   Force accounts were introduced thereby enabling FIs' to finance the civil works costs that
        the project sponsor incurred either on the sponsor's own books or on that of an affiliated
        construction subsidiary/firm. Force accounts were allowed up to $ 15 Million.


Following the loan amendments in 2006, the pace of the project accelerated. The project was
completed on September 7, 2009 about ten months earlier than the original closing date of June
30, 2010.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design. The key performance indicators reflected the project development objective. The
monitoring system was simple and based on measurable outputs. The baseline data for the
selected indicators were prepared and the targets were clearly defined at the beginning of the
project.

Implementation. TKB and TKSB monitored the implementation of all subprojects, reported on
inputs, outputs, and results. Each individual project was also evaluated by DSI and the Ministry
of Environment and monitored as needed.

Utilization. The information regarding project outputs helped the implementing agencies and the
Bank team maintain focus on key outstanding issues and their timely resolution. TKB and TKSB
had well-established monitoring and evaluation units. Sustainability of M&E arrangements
beyond the project implementation period was feasible.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environmental and social safeguards: Project design included procedures and implementation
arrangements to ensure full consideration of environmental and social safeguards. Specifically, all
sub-loans to be financed by the Renewable Energy Loan were subject to an environmental review
process. These processes and requirements incorporate Turkey's regulatory requirements for
Environmental Review and World Bank safeguards policies on Environmental Assessment (EA)
(OP 4.01) and Dam Safety (OP 4.37). Guidance on procedures and arrangements for
environmental screening, assessment, consultations, disclosure, and EMP were clearly stated in
the OMs.

The Turkish Government's EA policies for the financing of Category A projects were not
consistent with the Bank's policy. The Turkish EA regulation requires one public consultation
conducted by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry for Annex I projects2 while the World
Bank EA policy requires a minimum of two public consultations. Because of the difference, the
FIs were initially not permitted to fund a Category A project under the Renewable Energy Loan.
Further review, however, indicated that the Turkish regulation do require several public
consultations at various stages of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) preparation. A draft
EIA is required to be made available to the public comments, which would be considered in

2
 Projects screened as Annex I would most often be screened as the comparable Category A by the World
Bank.


                                                  7
preparing the final EIA report. Making the draft EIA available for public review and comment
was deemed to satisfy the World Bank second consultation requirement for Category A projects
in most cases. Therefore, the initial prohibition on financing Category A projects was removed.
The OM was revised and EA requirements for Category A subprojects were included.

At appraisal, TKB and TSKB assured the Bank that all land acquisition for the sub-projects
would be carried out directly between the investors and landowners, without expropriation.
During implementation, however, it became clear that some sub-projects had used expropriation,
most of which was completed before the investors came to TKB and TSKB for financing. At that
point, the OM was revised to include guidance for dealing with expropriation in subsequent
projects. The Bank reviewed and approved each land acquisition report on a no-objection basis.

Sub-projects were determined to be generally compliant with environmental and social
safeguards requirements. The primary focus of safeguard compliance for the hydropower sub-
projects was ensuring dam safety and managing adverse impacts on the water environment.

Financial management: Financial arrangements were satisfactory. Fiduciary Compliance was
insured not only by Financial Management staff in the field office in Ankara but also by the
banking regulator, the Banking Regulatory and Supervisory Agency (BRSA). The Bank
maintained a close working relationship with BRSA which ensured that the Bank was aware of
any serious fiduciary issue with either intermediary.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Sustainability of Sub-projects funded under the Project: Of the 20 subprojects (consisting of
23 power plants) financed under the loan, 16 power plants have already been commissioned, and
the remaining seven are expected to be commissioned in 2010. Given the tight supply-demand
balance in the Turkish power market, and the resultant high energy prices, it is seen that the
financial rates of return from operating these renewable energy facilities would be high.
Therefore, the private developers have an adequate incentive to ensure appropriate operations and
maintenance of these subprojects. No significant post-completion operational issues are
anticipated.

Next Phase/Follow-on Project: By the summer of 2008 all of the funds under this project had
been committed or were about to be committed and there were a large number of private investors
looking for additional funding. Given the continued strong demand for renewable energy
financing, TKB and TSKB requested a new project and the Turkish Government supported their
request. It was also agreed that the new project should cover a wider range which includes
energy efficiency as well as renewable energy.

The new project - the Private Sector Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Project (P112578)
- was approved by the Board in May 2009. The financing includes US$500 million from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and US$100 million from the
Clean Technology Fund (CTF). It is the first-ever project to use resources from the newly
established CTF. The new project closely follows the current project design and experience,
which consists of a term lending facility with the TSKB and TKB, for financing renewable
energy (including hydro, wind, biomass and solar), as well as energy efficiency investment. As of
the end of 2009, the project funds were about 40 percent committed.


                                                8
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The PDO was highly relevant to government strategies at appraisal. The project supported
the Turkish government's national electricity strategy wherein the third pillar is to attract
enhanced private sector investment, so as to minimize the need for sovereign-guarantees and
significantly enhanced public investments. The objective of the project was fully consistent with
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (FY 2004-07) to increase private sector investment in
generation without government guarantees and with low environment impact.

The project objective remains highly relevant to the current national priorities in Turkey.
In the Ninth Development Plan, the Turkish Government put a strong emphasis on bolstering the
country's power supply from renewable resources. The Government also emphasized mitigating
climate change as evident from the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol in February 2009. The
Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (FY2008-11) calls for continued support for the
development of a sustainable energy sector and envisages substantial Bank Group financing in
the energy sector with private sector development playing a central role.

The project design was highly relevant. One of the key barriers to the development of
renewable energy in Turkey was the lack of long-term financing. The capital intensive nature of
most renewable technologies results in a higher demand for capital, a longer payback period, and
therefore a greater exposure to market and regulatory risks. Aspects such as uncertainties
regarding hydrology and geology, concerns regarding environmental aspects and so on, further
raised the risks related to renewable energy. At project design, commercial banks were unwilling
to take on the risks of providing long-term loans especially to small and medium sized
enterprises, for renewable projects. To help overcome the barriers, the project used local banks to
intermediate long-term financing to the private sector. Under the special loan structure offered by
the Bank, the local FIs were able to offer a maximum maturity of 12 years including 4 years grace
period on their loans to private sponsors. Project design also requires minimum equity of 25
percent to mobilize Turkish entrepreneurs in leveraging their capital to develop renewable
resources.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The project surpassed the PDO targets for increasing private investment in renewable
generation and reducing carbon dioxide emissions as a result of clean energy development even
10 months before the expected closing date. As the first major international assistance project to
Turkey aimed at accelerating the development of renewable power generation, the project
successfully demonstrated a financial intermediation mechanism and has generated significant
interests among other domestic and international financial institutions in providing long-term
financing to various renewable energy projects. The specific achievements of the project are
described in detail below.

Increase in the generation capacity of and the amount of electricity produced from privately
owned renewable generation facilities.




                                                 9
By project completion, the loan has supported 19 private sponsors to develop 23 renewable
energy plants, including one wind plant, one landfill gas plant, three geothermal power plants,
and 18 hydropower plants. The total generating capacity developed amounted to 618.5 MW as
compared to the 500 MW of the original target. As of November 2009, 16 plants financed under
the loan were commissioned, one plant (Yesilbas) was in testing stage, and six plants
(Enova[Berkman and Oskan HEEPs], Karhes [Cirakdami and Dereli HEPPs], Hidrocontrol-
Selimoglu, Ilk) were expected to be in operation in 2010.

The annual electricity generation from these new renewable power plants under normal hydraulic
and wind conditions is estimated to be 2320 GWh as compared to the original target of 2200
GWh.

Annex 2 describes details of each individual generation project.

Annual decrease in carbon dioxide equivalent emissions.

The project directly contributes to the reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by
substituting renewable energy for fossil fuel based generation plants that would otherwise have
been built. The resultant reduction in carbon dioxide emissions is expected to be 1,690,750 tons
per year, significantly exceeding the original target of 932,000 tons. The emission factor used to
convert renewable generation to emissions reduction is 625 tons of CO2 equivalent/GWh3, which
is different from appraisal estimates, as shown below.

The higher greenhouse gas emissions reduction is attributable to the following factors: (a) higher
ex-post renewable generation capacity; (b) a landfill project financed under the loan resulted in
the reduction of methane emissions. Methane is 21 times more potent than CO2 in terms of
climate change impact; and (c) The PAD used an emission factor of 421 tons/GWh, assuming
that renewable energy would replace highly efficient gas fired combined cycle plants which were
the main alternative to renewable energy in 2004. Since then, because of the high price of natural
gas and uncertainty about gas supplies, the Turkish Government has decided to limit the number
of new gas fired power plants to diversify its energy sources. Therefore, the ICR revised the
emission factor, assuming that renewable energy would replace the average generation mix in
Turkey (hydro, natural gas, coal, oil and lignite). However, even based on the emission factor
used in the PAD, the result would still be 50 percent higher than the target.

Project demonstration and leveraging effect

Another key achievement of the project is that it demonstrated that long-term financing for
renewable energy projects could be viable in Turkey ­ the loan allowed the financial
intermediaries, TSKB and TKB, to better match the duration of their loans to private sponsors of
renewable energy projects. This financial intermediation mechanism was replicated by other
international financial institutions, such as European Investment Bank , Council of Europe
Development Bank, Agence Francaise de Development and so on, to channel their funds through
TKB, TSKB and other Turkish banks in financing renewable energy in Turkey. Long-term
financing dedicated to renewable energy and energy efficiency projects which TSKB and TKB
received from other international financial institutions has amounted to around 404 million

3
  An emission factor of power generation (based on the average generation mix in Turkey, including hydro,
natural gas, coal, oil and lignite) between 625 to 675 tons of CO2 equivalent/GWh is generally accepted by
the industry. For the purpose of this report, the more conservative estimation of 625 tons of CO2
equivalent/GWh is used.


                                                   10
(TSKB) and 200 million (TKB) since the Project.(see Table 1). No such loans were available
from these institutions before the Project.

Table 1 Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Loans from other International Financial
Institutions

                                                          Amount         Tenor
     Institution                     Loan                                           Signing Date
                                                          (million)      (yrs)
           Loan Agreements between TKB and other International Financial Institutions
                         Environment and Energy
                                                           50              15        05. 08. 2008
European Investment      Framework Loan I
Bank                     Environment and Energy
                                                           150             15        12.10. 2009
                         Framework Loan II
          Loan Agreements between TSKB and other International Financial Institutions
                         Environment and Energy
                                                           150             15        05. 08. 2008
European Investment      Framework Loan I
Bank                     Environment and Energy
                                                           150             15        12.10. 2009
                         Framework Loan II
Kreditanstalt fur        Climate Protection Facility     US$ 41            12        09.15. 2008
Wiederaufbou (KfW)       Climate Protection Facility     US$ 34            12        12.30. 2008
Agence Francaise de      Renewable Energy and
                                                           50              12         10. 6. 2009
Development              Energy Efficiency Facility

Sources: TSKB, TKB

The successful implementation of the project also verified the economic and financial viability of
renewable projects in Turkey and generated significant interests among local commercial banks
to enter the sector. Numerous commercial banks, such as Yap Kredi Bank, GarantiBank, sbank,
VakifBank, Finansbank, Denizbank and Fortisbank are now active in financing renewable energy
and have launched new lending schemes that offer long-term financing.

According to communication with the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, as of October
2009, additional new renewable capacity developed outside the project reached 1108 MW, with
an estimated annual generation of around 4200 GWh. The associated reduction in greenhouse gas
emissions was estimated to be about 2.6 million tons of CO2 equivalent. Communication with
TSKB indicates that following the project, TSKB has started working with a range of other local
and international financial institutions for renewable financing. The TSKB renewable portfolio
has expanded from 2 to 3 small hydro projects before the Bank project to 80 projects as of
December 2009, including 72 hydropower plants, 4 wind plants, 2 geothermal plants and 2
landfill gas plants.

Under the Renewable Energy Project, the US$201 million Bank loan leveraged additional
US$555.4 million private investment, indicating a leverage ratio of 2.65. This is higher than the
target of 1.48 envisaged at project appraisal.

Figures 1(a), 1(b), and 1(c) illustrate (i) the generation capacity of privately owned renewable
generation facilities (MW), (ii) annual electricity production from privately owned renewable
generation facilities (under normal hydraulic and wind conditions) (GWh), and (iii) annual
decrease in CO2 emissions (tons) as a result of renewable generation in Turkey before and after
the Project.



                                                11
Figure 1(a) Privately Owned Renewable Generation Facilities (2002 and 2009) (MW)



                   Ã


                        t
                        h
                        Ã


                   Ã



                        Ã
                                                                             REL P
                   Ã                                                   REL


                   




Figure 1(b) Electricity Production from Renewable Energy (2002 and 2009) (GWh)


                   Ã



                        t
                   Ã
                        9
                        Ã




                        (
                        Ã                                                    REL P
                   
                   Ã
                                                                       REL


                        
                   (




Figure 1(c) Annual CO2 Emissions Reduction from Renewable Generation (2002 and 2009) ( 000tons)

                    Ã




                    Ã


                        Ã


                                                                             REL P
                    Ã
                                                                      REL
                    u
                    
                    Ã




                    Ä




Source: PAD, Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources, ICR calculation
Note: "REL" refers to the renewable energy loan provided under the Renewable Energy Project.



                                                 12
Table 2 summarizes project original performance targets and its actual achievements.
Table 2 Project Targets and Actual Achievements

    Key Performance Indicators                 Appraisal Target        Actual Achievement
    Capacity of new renewable energy                 500                      618.5
    generation plants (MW)
    Generation from new renewable                       2200                    2320
    energy generation plants (GWh)
    Reduction in greenhouse gas                      932,000                  1,690,750
    emissions ( tons of CO2 equivalent)
    Leverage ratio                                      1.48                     2.65

Sources: PAD, TKB and TSKB reports
Note: Data are based on renewable energy subprojects directly funded by the Renewable Energy Loan.
Loan leverage ratio is defined as dollars of capital raised from non-World Bank sources for every World
Bank dollar.

Other contributing factors
It should be noted that in addition to the long-term financing facilitated by the World Bank loan,
several other factors also contributed to the above positive results. Therefore, without a rigorous
impact evaluation, it is difficult to quantitatively estimate the Project's demonstration effect.
These other contributing factors include:
    (i) The new Renewable Energy Law, enacted in May 2005, and further amended through
         the Energy Efficiency Law enacted in April 2007, provides incentives for renewable
         energy development. The Amendment of the Law provides a 10-year purchase
         agreement coupled with a guaranteed feed-in price of 5-5.5 cents/kWh for renewable
         electricity for all renewable energy certified producers that commerce their operation
         before December 31, 2011. By setting up a floor price and guaranteed purchase
         agreement, the Government provided financial incentives and reduced uncertainties of
         investment in renewable power. The Law also grants a 50 percent reduction on the fees
         for land use permission, and exemptions from regular license fees for renewable
         generators. Figure 2 indicates the significant jump in renewable energy development
         after the passage of the Renewable Energy Law in 2005.
           The Renewable Energy Law was in draft stage when this project was prepared. After
           the enactment of the Law in 2005, the project facilitated the implementation of the law
           by supplying long-term financing at a time when funding from other sources was not
           readily available.
    (ii)   The establishment of a competitive wholesale market in 2006 created a platform for
           private investors to trade electricity. The operation of the market came in a time when
           the compulsory purchase provisions stipulated in the Renewable Energy Law proved to
           be difficult in practice. 4 While procedures for supervising retail licensees' compliance

4 The Law initially obliges each regional distribution company to purchase all electricity from eligible
renewable producers in its service area. However, some distribution companies were not financially
capable to fulfill this purchase obligation. The Government responded by amending the law to require each
distribution company to purchase renewable electricity based on a mandatory ratio. The ratio equals to the
percentage of the sales of the company to the total electricity sales in Turkey in the previous year.


                                                   13
          with purchase obligation for renewable energy were being developed, the wholesale
          market went into operation in 2006. Price formed through balancing and settlement
          mechanism in the market was higher than the feed-in tariff; therefore, all the renewable
          projects financed by the loan (and others) chose to sell into this market.
          The establishment of a balancing and settlement market was supported by the National
          Transmission Grid Project financed by the Bank. The Bank also created a panel of
          experts to advise on market implementation issues.
Figure 2 Year-by-Year New Renewable Energy Capacity in Turkey (MW)
            




                                                                           H
            Dt
             




                                                                           W
                                                                           G
            Z
            E




                                               z

Source: Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources

        ( iii)With tight electricity supply-demand balance, the average electricity price
        in the newly established wholesale market has been above US$ 0.1/kWh in recent
        years. These prices have attracted incremental capacities and generation,
        including those from renewable power, to be sold into the market, which
        otherwise may not have been developed.
        ( iv)The institutional development activities supported under this and other
        parallel Bank projects helped develop the necessary legal and regulatory basis
        for developing renewable energy resources. For example, the Bank provided
        policy advisory support for the preparation of Electricity Market Law and
        Electricity market implementation manual, and the restructuring of the electricity
        distribution system. In the course of preparing the Renewable Energy Project, the
        Bank provided considerable technical assistance to the Ministry of Energy in
        helping set up the approach and procedures for licensing and allocating water-use
        rights for small hydropower plants.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
Economic Analysis: At appraisal, the economic rates of return (ERRs) of three representative
small hydropower projects were estimated to be in the range of 19 to 23 percent, with the
economic net present value (NPV) ranging between US$5.5 to 13.2 million. On project


                                                   14
completion, ERRs for the 20 subprojects funded under the loan were calculated to be in the range
of 10 to 45 percent. The wide variation in project unit construction costs contributed to the
difference in subproject ERRs. The overall project ERR was estimated to be between 18 to 24
percent depending on assumptions on long run electricity market price and the value of
greenhouse gas emissions reduction. 5 With a 10-percent discount rate, the project economic NPV
was estimated to be between US$476 to 866 million.
Financial Analysis: At appraisal, the financial rates of return (FRRs) of three representative
small hydropower projects were estimated to be in the range of 16 to 20 percent, with the
financial NPV ranging between US$3.4 to 8.1 million. On project completion, FRRs for the 20
subprojects funded under the loan were calculated to be in the range of 7 to 46 percent. Except
for one small hydro projects whose FRR was estimated to be 7 percent, the FRRs of all other
subprojects were above 11 percent. The estimated overall FRR is between 16 to 19 percent, and
the estimated financial NPV is between US$304 to 546 million at a 10-percent discount rate,
depending on assumptions on long term electricity prices and the value of greenhouse gas
emission reduction.
Table 3 summarizes the results of the economic and financial analysis. Details of methodologies
used and assumptions employed are outlined in Annex 3.
Table 3 Economic and Financial Rates of Return and Project NPV

                                                                       Economic
                                                                                               Financial
                                                                        NPV at
                                                                                             NPV at 10%
                                                                          10%
                                                             ERR                     FRR       discount
                                                                        discount
                                                                                                 rate
                                                                       rate (US$
                                                                                             (US$million)
                                                                        million)
PAD                                                          20%          NA         17%          NA
    Electricity price at US$0.1/kWh with
    emission reduction benefits at US$10/ton of              24%          866        19%          546
    CO2 equivalent
    Electricity price at US$0.1/kWh without
                                                             22%          743        19%          517
    emission reduction benefits
ICR Electricity price at Government guaranteed
    floor price with emission reduction benefits             20%          599        16%          333
    at US$10/ton of CO2 equivalent
    Electricity price at Government guaranteed
    floor price without emission reduction                   18%          476        16%          304
    benefits

Sources: PAD and ICR calculation
Notes: Government guaranteed floor price is taken as 5.5 cents/kWh. There is no consensus on the
economic value of per ton of CO2 emissions reduction. We use US$10/ton of CO2 equivalent for the
purpose of the calculation. US$0.1/kWh is used to approximate the recent wholesale electricity price. For
the calculation of FRRs, emission reduction benefits were included only when the projects sold carbon
credits in the voluntary market.



5
 The FIs' administrative expenses, which were not separately reported, were excluded from the
calculation. The overall project ERR would be lower if factoring into the overhead costs. The same caveat
applies to the calculation of project overall NPV and FRR.


                                                    15
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

The project was and remains highly relevant to the Government priorities. It significantly
surpassed its development objectives 10 months before the closing date. The project's role in
demonstrating the sustainability of financing private sector renewable energy has been important
in stimulating the interest of other commercial and international financial institutions to enter the
Turkish renewable business. The project efficiency is substantial. The overall project outcome
rating is highly satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts: Almost all of the subprojects employ workers from neighboring villages.
Because these subprojects are located in less developed mountainous parts of the country where
fewer avenues for regular employment exist, they offer local people attractive employment
opportunities. TKB and TSKB estimated that the SPDF portfolio provided direct permanent
employment to about 530 people. In addition, these projects also had a positive impact on local
businesses which were called on to deliver more services for construction, logistical support and
material for regular operating and maintenance.

Social Development: One of the key examples of the positive benefits from the project is the
Mamak landfill project. Apart from generating energy from potentially toxic waste, the
subproject has markedly improved the lives of people living around the site. For more than 20
years, the waste of 4 million people living in Ankara was stored in an uncontrolled manner.
Beside the climate change effects, the residues caused environmental and social problems
including pollution, strong odors, health risks and even potential explosions. One of subprojects
financed under the Renewable Energy Loan, the Mamak Landfill Gas Power Projects, addressed
these problems by employing a new waste management approach, and using the waste to generate
heat and electricity. As a result of the project, the risk of gas explosions is reduced, seepage of
explosive methane gas is reduced, local air and water quality is improved, a Waste Water
Treatment System that improves soil condition has been installed, and 4,500 trees have been
planted around the landfill area. Furthermore, the Mamak project will support the rehabilitation of
the district surrounding the landfill site, the construction of a green area on the covered area of the
landfill, and an educational café. Additionally, an awareness campaign on the recycling process
of solid wastes is being carried out and all the heat coming from the waste treatment process is
used to grow tomatoes that are distributed to the Turkish market. 6

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

Under the Renewable Energy Project, the Bank provided to EMRA and DSI a range of technical
assistance to help the clarification and passage of a number of renewable energy policies and
regulations. These include the development of regulatory procedures for the allocation of water-


6
  A video on Mamak is available at
http://www.worldbank.org/eca/impact/2009/project13/video/index.html


                                                  16
use rights, procedures for licensing renewable power plants, power purchase obligations of the
distribution companies, tariffs for renewable energy and so on.

The World Bank loan also assisted TSKB and TKB in developing their capacities for financing
renewable energy projects. Through the implementation of the Project, both of the banks have
gathered substantial knowledge and experience with managing complex renewable energy
investments and have developed suitable levels of staff with requisite qualifications and
experience to market the new facility, appraise and evaluate project proposals, and monitor
implementation. In addition, the Bank provided extensive professional training and awareness-
building on environmental and social issues which enabled TKB to improve its capacity in
safeguards compliance.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The Mamak Landfill Gas Power Project ­ one of the first large scale landfill-gas utilization
projects in Turkey, demonstrated a new approach to convert waste into energy in Turkey.
Following the project's success, similar projects are being planned and constructed throughout
the country. The Turkish Government now envisions that 5 percent of the country's energy will
be produced from garbage in the future.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

A survey with private renewable energy developers was conducted through TKB, TSKB and the
Hydropower association as part of this ICR to help identify the extent to which the project
contributed to the development of renewable energy in Turkey. After TKB, TSKB and the
Hydropower association circulated the structured questionnaire (the survey questionnaire is
attached in Annex 5) among clients and association members, 16 firms responded to the survey.
Because the 16 firms may have self-selected to complete the survey, their responses may not be
generalizable. Nonetheless, the key findings of the survey are summarized below:

    ·   The project was well targeted. The project beneficiaries who have responded to the
        survey are all small- to medium-sized enterprises (less than 99 employees) that faced
        more challenges in gaining access to bank financing.
    ·   Lack of long-term financing was no longer considered as a barrier to renewable energy
        development in Turkey. Many commercial banks have started providing loans with terms
        and conditions similar to those from TKB and TSKB.
    ·   Among the 14 firms who have received loans from TKB or TSKB, 7 firms stated that
        they would not have implemented their projects, or would have implemented but with
        smaller scale or longer period if they had not received the loans from the Project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to the development outcome is rated low. All subprojects have been successfully
implemented. At the plant level, rigorous licensing and project appraisal processes ensured
satisfactory technical capacity. For projects involving large dams, the borrower had been
required to appoint an independent panel of experts to ensure the safety of operation and
maintenance, and would carry out periodic safety inspections of the dam. At the market level, the
prospect of electricity supply-demand imbalances in the near future suggests high electricity price
and that renewable generation will be financially viable. At the policy level, the Government is


                                                17
fully committed to its renewable energy development. Therefore, it is expected that all the
renewable energy facilities developed under the Project will continue being maintained and
operated in a safe and efficient way.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Quality at Entry was assessed by the QAG during July 2005. The QAG rated the project's overall
quality at entry as Satisfactory and indicated that the project was soundly prepared, simple, and
had taken good account of the prior experience with Bank-financed renewable energy projects,
and that the implementation agencies appeared to be competent.

The ICR assessment concurs that Quality at entry was satisfactory. A thorough assessment of
the market constraints was conducted and strategic choices were appropriately made at the design
and preparation stage such as (i) focusing on a financial intermediation mechanism (ii) building
up a solid investment pipeline, (iii) considering all major details for effective implementation and
preparing a well structured operation manual which created a framework for successful
implementation of the Project, (iv) adequately assessing the Borrowers' compliance with Bank's
safeguard policies and fiduciary matters, and preparing relevant technical assistance, and (v)
working closely with EMRA, DSI and the Ministry of Energy for developing legislation
and procedures for developing small hydropower plants, which eased the process for private
investment.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Quality of supervision was satisfactory. During project implementation, the Bank maintained a
sustained dialogue with government and business stakeholders. Several team members were
based in the field and carried out close supervision of the project. The team's close monitoring
and effective communication with all levels involved was crucial for understanding concerns and
contributed to capacity strengthening. The Bank's capacity building efforts to improve the
compliance with environmental and social safeguard policies were particularly appreciated by
TKB and TSKB. In addition, to ensure efficient implementation, the Bank showed flexibility in
adjusting project implementation as discussed in section 2.2.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Given satisfactory ratings for both quality at entry, and quality of supervision, the overall Bank
performance is rated satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

The Government's strong commitment to the project's PDO throughout the design and
implementation stages was a key factor in the Project's positive outcomes. The conducive
Government policies, such as the enactment of market liberalization that allowed the participation


                                                   18
of private investors and the passage of the renewable energy law that reduced risk perceptions
associated with renewable investment (as discussed in section 3.2), were crucial for the
significant growth of Turkey's renewable energy sector.

In addition, the Government was able to take into account feedbacks from investors and financial
institutions and to adapt policies as needed. For example, when sector players argued that setting
a maximum price limit of 5.5 cents/kWh for renewable power until the end of 2010, while there
was no price limit for conventional power generation was discouraging renewables, the
Government responded by allowing generators to sell renewable electricity in the wholesale
market and at a price more than the guaranteed feed-in tariff, if they have such opportunities.

During project implementation, MENR and their related agencies, DSI and EIE, took the lead in
executing the institutional development activities and facilitated transparent and timely licensing
and water-use rights clearance process. They also had played a critical role in the success of the
project.

One issue to be mentioned is that the enactment of the Renewable Energy law was significantly
delayed and partially contributed to the slow progress of the project in the first two years, as
investors were waiting for the clarification of the regulatory framework before committing to
their investment. Overall, the government performance was satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

The implementing agencies, TSKB and TKB, were responsible for selecting individual projects
and made sure that they met the guidelines and were economically attractive. TSKB had
developed their unique mix of technical, risk assessment and management, and business
marketing skills and had established itself as a leading Turkish institution providing financing for
renewable energy projects. TSKB, also has developed, during its long-term working relationship
with the Bank, an environmental management system that assesses environmental risks related to
all banking activities. TKB had a slow start in terms of loan disbursement but was able to catch
up towards the end of the project. On the aspect of safeguards compliance, TKB did not have
specific staff to implement safeguard policies (the work was done by engineering staff who did
not have safeguard compliance as their primary responsibilities), but did acquire dedicated
environmental expertise in the follow-on project for safeguard compliance. Both FIs were able to
commit and fully disburse all of the funds to viable projects about a year ahead of schedule and
meet the environmental and social safeguards requirements. The overall performance of both
implementing agencies was satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Given satisfactory ratings for Government and implementing agency performance, the overall
borrower performance was rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Lessons emerged from the implementation of the project are:

    1. Long-term financing to renewable energy development can be financially viable.
       However, financing renewable energy is a complex line of business and capacity


                                                19
    building support should be provided to financial institutions in strengthening project
    evaluation and engineering skills and environmental and social safeguard functions. For
    renewable energy projects, technical assistance to financial institutions should be
    considered being incorporated into initial project designs.

2. Success of the project can be linked to the long-term programmatic approach that
   Turkey has adopted and the Bank has supported to create the enabling
   environment, build capacity and catalyze investments. The Turkish experience
   suggests that the development of renewable energy often faces an array of barriers,
   including institutional, capacity and financing challenges. To promote the utilization of
   renewable resources requires a thorough understanding of the sector background, long-
   term efforts, and a strategic mix of policy and investment interventions to overcome these
   barriers.

3. The Bank's financing to renewable energy development could be leveraged to
   achieve greater impact. First, the project's demonstration effect sparked interest among
   other financial institutions in investing in the sector. Second, the Bank supported the
   strengthening of project management and safeguard capacities of the participating FIs.
   The FIs have rapidly increased their renewable energy portfolio by working with other
   commercial banks and international financial institutions. Third, the Bank assisted the
   development of Government administrative capacity in regulating renewable industry.
   The Government can leverage the strengthened institutional capacities to further promote
   the development of renewable energy.

4. A predicable policy and regulatory environment is a critical precondition for
   private sector investment in renewable energy development. Having a supportive
   policy environment, including predictable feed-in tariffs and transparent rules for
   electricity trading are critical for attracting private sector investment. Other favorable
   policies include facilitation of developer access to land and adoption of transparent and
   streamlined procures for obtaining licenses and water-use rights in the case of
   hydropower development. For renewable energy projects, it is important to develop a
   coherent strategy that integrates the establishment of an enabling policy and
   regulatory environment within the overall framework of the project design.

5. The Bank's procurement guidelines do not cater to private sector procurement and
   contracting approaches. When working with the private sector, it is important for
   the Bank's procurement procedures to be flexible in order to get the private sector
   involved. This became apparent in the case of this project, and as a result, the design of
   the follow-on project introduced increased flexibility. ICB procurement thresholds were
   removed, so that private developers could use commercial practice for the entire project.
   In order to ensure that Bank procurement principles are however followed, an
   independent procurement audit process has been instituted, in addition to the Bank's
   periodic post-review.

6. High levels of sponsor collateral requirement constrained small renewable
   developers with low collateral value from accessing finance. It is important to develop
   more friendly policies for small, first-time renewable developers in the future, such as
   guarantee fund, to overcome the challenge.

7. Waste to energy technologies that convert landfill gas to electricity and heat have great
    potential in climate change mitigation, as well as in economic development and the


                                            20
        improvement of public welfare and safety. Waste to energy technologies that create
        win/win opportunities should receive more support from future Bank projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                                Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Renewable Generation Financing        500.00              748.8                     149.8%

            Total Baseline Cost            500.00                748.8              149.8%
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00              0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                             0.00                  0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs           500.00                748.8              149.8%
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00                  0.00               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                           2.03                  2.03               .00
     Total Financing Required              502.03                750.83             149.6%




(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal    Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage
          Source of Funds                  Estimate       Estimate
                                                                      of Appraisal
                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                0.00           0.00           0.00
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                        202.03          223.13            110%
and Development*
Other international FIs                 50.00           130.00            260%
Private equity                          150.00          242.00            161%
Export Credits, Commercial banks        100.00          161.27            161%

Sources: TKB and TSKB

* TKB used US$21.1 million from the follow-up project to finish a project.




                                                  22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Individual subprojects financed under the loan7:

    Project Name              Type          Investment          Capacity    Annual         Annual
                                           (US$ million)         (MW)      Generation    Emissions
                                                                             (GWh)       Reduction
                                                                                        (tons of CO2
                                                                                         equivalent)
                                              TSKB subprojects
Akkoy                     hydro                    90.1               99          270         168,750
Bares                     wind                     37.5               30          110          68,750
Bereket Koyulhisar        hydro                    40.6               42          265         187,500
Bereket Jeotermal         geothermal                9.4                6           36          22,500
Caldere                   hydro                     9.4                8           35          21,875
Enova Enerji              hydro                     81                63          237         148,125
(Berkman and
Oskan)
Gurmat                    geothermal                 116.5          47.4          270         168,750
ITC- Mamak                landfill                      24          11.2           74         265,000
Karhes (Cirakdami         hydro                      100.9            98          225         140,625
and Dereli)
Koni                      hydro                       17.5          13.4           46          28,750
Molu                      hydro                        4.5             4           27          16,875
Tektug (Kalealti          hydro                       36.4            39          117          73,125
and Kargilik)
Yesilbas                  hydro                       14         14              47.6          29,750
       TSKB Total                                 581.8      475.0             1759.6       1,340,375
                                               TKB subprojects
Bereket                   hydro                     32.7         40             178.8         111,750
Hidrokontrol              hydro                     25.3       23.1              97.7          61,063
Hidrokontrol              hydro                     13.1        8.8              30.4          19,000
(Selimoglu)
Kalen Enerji              hydro                       25.3          31.3         71.7          44,813
Ilk Elektrik              hydro                       48.1          23.7        106.5          66,563
Menderes (Dora 1)         geothermal                  12.7           8.5         53.1          33,188
Oztay                     hydro                        9.8           8.1         22.4          14,000
          TKB Total                                  167.0         143.5        560.6         350,375
        SPDF Total                                   748.8         618.5       2320.2       1,690,750

Sources: TKB and TSKB reports




7
    Three of the TSKB subprojects have two generating plants.




                                                         23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Economic Rates of Return

At appraisal, the economic rates of return (ERRs) of three representative small
hydropower projects were estimated. These were two projects (Mugla and Aydin
projects) presented to TSKB for financing when the renewable energy fund was
available, and a composite project presented by TKB. The composite project according to
TKB was prepared based on small projects they had financed and the proposals they had
received. The estimated ERRs for the three representative projects are 20, 23 and 19
percent, respectively, and the economic net present value (NPV) of these projects are
US$5.5, 6.4 and 13.2 million at 10 percent discount rate.

The assumptions used for the analysis in the PAD were that the electricity produced
would be sold at US$0.05/kWh, which was the long run market price predicted at that
time, and that the value of the greenhouse gas emissions reduction was US$3.25 per ton
of carbon dioxide equivalent, following the suggestion of the Prototype Carbon Fund.
The emission factor used for estimating the amount of greenhouse gas emissions
reduction was 421 tons/GWh, assuming that renewable energy would replace gas fired
combined cycle plants which were the main alternative to renewable energy in 2004. It
was also assumed that plant investment costs ranged between US$718 to 1000/kWh and
that construction took two years. The cost of operation and maintenance was assumed to
be US$1.4 cents /kWh.

Ex post, the average investment cost of renewable power plants financed under the
Renewable Energy Loan was $ 1311/kW or about 83 percent above the PAD estimation.
The average cost of the hydro plants financed under this Project was $1182/kW, or 65
percent above the estimate. The average construction cost of the geothermal plants was
$2238/kW, which substantially increased the average cost overall.

However, the prevailing market price of electricity, around US$0.1/kWh, was also higher
than the PAD assumption. It is expected that the supply and demand balance will remain
tight in the near to medium term, and that the electricity price will remain high.
Moreover, the Government of Turkey in 2005 passed a renewable energy law. The law
guarantees all producers of renewable energy a minimum price of 5-5.5 cents/kWh, but
specifically allows them to sell into the competitive wholesale market if they can get a
higher price. In fact, all producers have chosen to sell into the market. In June of this year
the government prepared an amendment to this law to provide higher minimum prices for
renewable energy with specific prices for each technology.

The price of carbon credits is also much higher than what is estimated in the PAD. The
most recent prices under the European Emission Trading Scheme were about US$20/ton.
While there is no consensus on the economic value of CO2 emissions reduction, US$


                                             24
10/ton was used to approximate the benefits of greenhouse gas emissions reduction. In
addition, the emission factor used to convert renewable generation to emissions reduction
was also higher at 625 tons CO2 equivalent/GWh. The Turkish Government has decided
to limit the number of new gas fired power plants to diversify its energy sources.
Therefore, the ICR revised the emission factor, assuming that renewable energy would
replace the average generation mix in Turkey (hydro, natural gas, coal, oil and lignite).

All projects are assumed to be in operation for 22 years. The costs of operation and
maintenance of various projects were obtained from TSKB and TKB.

Based on the above information, the overall project ERR was estimated to be in the range
of 18 to 24 percent, and the economic NPV between US$476 to 866 million at a 10
percent discount rate, depending on assumptions on the long-term electricity market
prices and the economic value of CO2 emissions reduction. 8 The results are summarized
in the following table.

                 Economic Rates of Return (ERRs) and Project Economic
                              Net Present Values (NPVs)

                                                                               NPV at 10% discount
                                                            ERR                        rate
                                                                                  (US$ million)
PAD                                                          20%                       NA
Electricity price at US$0.1/kWh with                         24%                       866
emission reduction benefits at US$10/ton
of CO2 equivalent
Electricity price at US$0.1/kWh without                      22%                           743
emission reduction benefits
Electricity price at Government guaranteed                   20%                           599
floor price with emission reduction benefits
at US$10/ton of CO2 equivalent
Electricity price at Government guaranteed                   18%                           476
floor price without emission reduction
benefits

Sources: PAD and ICR calculation
Note: Government guaranteed floor price is taken as 5.5 cents/kWh. There is no consensus on the
economic value of per ton of CO2 emissions reduction. We use US$10/ton of CO2 equivalent for the
purpose of the calculation. US$0.1/kWh is used to approximate the recent wholesale electricity price.

Financial Rates of Return

The three projects analyzed in the PAD had financial economic rate of return (FRR) of
17, 20 and 16 percent, and financial NPVs at US$3.4, 4.0 and 8.1 million.

8
  The FIs' administrative expenses, which were not separately reported, were excluded from the
calculation. The overall project ERR would be lower if factoring into the overhead costs. The same caveat
applies to the project overall NPV and FRR calculation.


                                                    25
On project completion, the project overall financial rate of return (FRR) is estimated to
be in the range of 16-19 percent. The FRRs for the individual subprojects are between 7
and 46 percent. Except for one small hydro projects whose FRR was estimated to be 7 percent,
the FRRs of all other subprojects were above 11 percent. The FRR calculation assumes that
the current Turkish tax regulations remain in place with a 20 percent corporate income
tax and 20 year depreciation. All subprojects receive revenue from electricity sales. Two
subprojects, Bares and ITC-Mamak, also sell carbon credits into the voluntary carbon
market under a ten year contract. ITC-Mamak project profits from its produce outputs
and recycling waste. The results of financial analysis are summarized in the following
table.


                  Financial Rates of Return (FRRs) and Project Financial
                                Net Present Values (NPVs)

                                                                               NPV at 10% discount
                                                            FRR                        rate
                                                                                  (US$ million)
PAD                                                         17%                        NA
Electricity price at US$0.1/kWh with                        19%                        546
emission reduction benefits at US$10/ton
of CO2 equivalent
Electricity price at US$0.1/kWh without                     19%                            517
emission reduction benefits
Electricity price at Government guaranteed                  16%                            333
floor price with emission reduction benefits
at US$10/ton of CO2 equivalent
Electricity price at Government guaranteed                  16%                            304
floor price without emission reduction
benefits

Sources: PAD and ICR calculation
Notes: Government guaranteed floor price is taken as 5.5 cents/kWh. US$0.1/kWh is used to
approximate the recent wholesale electricity price. Emission reduction benefits were included only when
the projects sold carbon credits in the voluntary market. The value of a carbon credit was assumed to be
US$10/ton.




                                                    26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
          Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Bernard Baratz            Consultant                        ECAVP
Angelica A. Fernandes     Consultant                        ECSC2
Fan Zhang                 Young Professional                ECSSD
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu      Senior Procurement Specialist     ECSC2
Selma Karaman             Program Assistant                 ECCU6
Iftikhar Khalil           Consultant                         QAG
Devesh Chandra Mishra     Manager                           ECSC2
James Sayle Moose         Consultant                        AFTEG
Shinya Nishimura          Financial Analyst                 ECSS2
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora       Senior Operations Officer         ECSS2
Norval Stanley Peabody    Consultant                        ECSSD
Sameer Shukla             Sr Energy Spec.                   ECSS2
Yukari Tsuchiya           Temporary                         ECSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                                  36.41
  FY02                                                                  71.42
  FY03                                                                 245.67
  FY04                                                                  50.40
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00
                          Total:                                       403.90
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                   1.09
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                                                   0.00



                                          27
FY04                   7.96
FY05                  87.73
FY06                 127.39
FY07                  68.40
FY08                 112.05
       Total:        404.62




                28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

A survey with private renewable energy developers was conducted through TKB, TSKB and the
Hydropower association as part of this ICR to help identify the extent to which the project
contributed to the development of renewable energy in Turkey. After TKB, TSKB and the
Hydropower association circulated the structured questionnaire (the survey questionnaire is
attached in Annex 5) among clients and association members, 16 firms responded to the survey.
Because the 16 firms may have self-selected to complete the survey, their responses may not be
generalizable. Nonetheless, the key findings of the survey are summarized below:

   ·   The project was well targeted. The project beneficiaries who have responded to the
       survey are all small- to medium-sized enterprises (less than 99 employees) that faced
       more challenges in gaining access to bank financing.
   ·   Lack of long-term financing was no longer considered as a barrier to renewable energy
       development in Turkey. Many commercial banks have started providing loans with terms
       and conditions similar to those from TKB and TSKB.
   ·   Among the 14 firms who have received loans from TKB or TSKB, 7 firms stated that
       they would not have implemented their projects, or would have implemented but with
       smaller scale or longer period if they had not received the loans from the Project.




                                              29
                      TSKB/TKB Renewable Energy Project Survey

The main objective of the survey is to gather opinions and information on renewable
energy projects financed by loans from the TSKB/TKB Renewable Energy Project.

 Questionnaire ID:
 Name of Firm:
 Respondent:
 Respondent's Position in Firm:
 Address:
 City:
 Telephone:

 1. Location of what, plant or firm?

    Marmara
    Aegean
    Southeastern Anatolia
   ÃMediterranean
   ÃCentral Anatolia
   ÃBlack Sea


 2. Size

   ÃSmall >=5 and <=19 employees
   ÃMedium >=20 and <=99
   ÃLarge >100 and <=249
   ÃVery Large


3. In what year did your company begin operation?

4. In which year did you apply for a TSKB/TKB loan?

  Ã2004     Ã2005      Ã2006ÃÃ    Ã2007   2008    2009

5. In which year was the construction of the facility started?

  Ã2004     Ã2005      Ã2006ÃÃ    Ã2007   2008    2009

6. In which year was your facility commissioned?

  Ã2004     Ã2005      Ã2006ÃÃ    Ã2007   2008    2009

8. How many full-time employees does this establishment employ?



                                             30
9. How many full-time temporary employees does this establishment employ?

10. If you had not received a loan supported by the TSKB/TKB Renewable Energy
Project, would you still undertake the renewable energy investment?

    No
    Yes, but limited scope and/or longer time
    Yes, in identical scope

11. Did the project supported by the TSKB/TKB Renewable Energy Project receive
technical advice for preparation?

    Yes /    NO
If yes, what type of technical advice was received?
     Resource Measurement
     Technical Design
     Dam safety
     Environmental management planning
     Loan application
     Others
Who provided the technical advice? Specify ____

12. What is the annual power output of your facility since it was commissioned?

13. What has been the return on your renewable energy investment?


   Exceeded expectation


   About the expectation


   Below the expectation


   Loss/negative benefits
    Too early to tell

14. Have you conducted or are you considering renewable energy projects other than the
one financed by the TSKB/TKB Turkey Renewable Energy Project?
    Yes /   No

If Yes, please indicate the type of project _______________

Approximate size of investment ________________



                                           31
% of self financing _____________

15, Have you received bank loans for the renewable energy investment in addition to the
loans from TSKB/TKB?

What Bank?__________________ ______________

Interest rate on this loan ________________

Maturity of the loans ___________

16. Did this loan require collateral ____________

What was the approximate value of the collateral required as a percentage of the loan
value? __________________

17. If you have not applied for a loan for renewable energy investment, what was the
main reason?

    No need for a loan
    Application procedures for loans or lines of credit are complex
    Interest rates are not favorable
    Collateral requirements are too high
    Size of loan and maturity are insufficient
    It is necessary to make informal payments to get bank loans
    Did not think it would be approved
    Others




                                           32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
None




                                   33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

B                        ICR       TSKB




    K
T                                                      R              E               P                                    IBRD
        U                                  T                                          M                 T
    I               D           B              T               TSKB           D                     B        T       TKB TSKB
                               USD                                        T

                                                           E



    K
W                                          TSKB                                                                             T
                                                                          C                   M                  P    F
                         B         T                                                                         T        S
D
C                                                                                             PCU


    K
A
                                                       A
                                                                                                                           TSKB
T

        ^

T                   L                                                                                       MW
            T                                                                                                               MW

T       L                L                     R                E                 T                                   T
R               E       L      L                       T

                                       MW

                                                                                                                       >

A                                                                             T
                                       T
                                                   L                                      T
                                                                                                        REL F



                                                                34
            d

T                                                               USD
                                                   USD
                                   T

            W

T
                T
                US                        USD                             P
                                                                                    ICB A
                         ICB


            t        

T                                                                                        IBRD REL
                                                        IBRD
                             T

D                                          W        B             T           T
L       D                                                                                         U
                                                                                            T

    ·       I                                                                          MW
    ·       I                                                                       USD                    USD
                                            USD
    ·       I                                  ICB C                          USD           USD

    ·       A                                   USD


T


                         d                      
T   R                   E          P                                                                         TSKB
                                                                      W                                       REL
        TSKB
T       T                                       IBRD
                                                                                                  TSKB S
                                                                          TSKB

EMS                          ISO                         EMS
                                   T                                              UNEP


                                                           35
T      P                        REL

T                                                      TSKB                 REL



    



T
           A                                L      D


R
                                T     REL
                            T
                                                                                          A IBRD



TSKB
                                                                                      T     REL I
                                                       TSKB
                                              F
                                            TSKB
                   A                                            REL I
                                       T


                                                



W
               T       B
                        D                                                                   B
           W                IBRD A          O               TSKB PCU


T                                                                                     T
                                                            T
                                                                                  A

                                                                        T



                                                       36
                                              H


    
D                               REL
                                                       D
                                                                                       TSKB         TKB
                                 W                               T   G                 P        S
R               E        E        E       P
T                                             U                               T
                I
                    T                                                             EU
                                              T                          US                         IBRD
       US                       C     T           F        CTF

T                                                                                       REL I
I                                                            REL I                                  T



B           S           TKB C

The Implementation Completion Report has identified accomplishments, problems and lessons
emerged from the implementation of the project, comprehensively. The report has also reviewed
the final project outcomes and compared them to the appraisal targets and the project
development objectives. The report has also showed clear evidence of the progress, and
underscored the considerable scope for further improvement.




                                                  37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

The files contain supervision reports, aide memoires, the operational manuals, quarterly
reports from TSKB and TKB, audited financial statements from both banks, EIAs,
environmental management plans and other similar documents.




                                           39
                                                                                                                                                                                   TU R K E Y
                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS*

                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                        RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                        MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                        RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES*
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                         *Province names are the same as their capitals.


                             26°E                              28°E                           30°E                             32°E                        34°E                              36°E                                      38°E                                                                    R US S I AN F E DE R AT I ON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 US AN         DE        ON
                   B U L G ARIA
                     ULG A R I A
                                                                                                                                          Blac k Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0          50         100      150       200 Kilometers
                                                  To
                               To               Burgas
              42°N          Kurdzhali                                                                                                                                                                     0                  50            100                 150 Miles                                                     GEORGI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE OR GI A                                  42°N

                                       Edirne                                                                                                                                        Sinop
                                                  Kirklareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                            Istanbul Strait                                   Bartin                                                                                                                                                                    Batumi
                                                                             (Bosphorus)
                                                                                                              Zonguldak                                                       Ku
                                                                                                                                                                                   zey
                     CE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                        Tekirdag                                                                                                                                                          Samsun                                                                                               Artvin        Kur
                                                                              Istanbul                                                                     Kastamonou                       Ana                                                                                                                                                 To
                 EE




                              To
                            Komatini                      Sea of
                                                                                  Kocaeli
                                                                                   (Izmit)                     Düzce
                                                                                                                                        Karabük
                                                                                                                                                           Devr
                                                                                                                                                               ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                  dolu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dag                  Ordu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Trabzon                                        Ardahan             Kirovakan               AZER-
            GR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             lari                                                     Rize
                                                         Marmara
                                                                         Yalova
                                                                                                     Sakarya                                                                                                                                       Giresun                                                                                                         BAIJAN
                                                                                                                        Bolu                                             il                                                                                                                 ruh                                     Kars
                                                                                                     (Adapazari)                                       Çankiri        Kiz           Amasya                                                                                                Ço                                                      ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                                     Çorum                                                  Kelki
              40°N
                              Çanakkale                                                       Bilecik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 t                      Gümüshane                                                                                                        40°N
             Çanakkale                                                   Bursa                                                                                                                                      Tokat                                                           Bayburt                          Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         s                          Agri Dagi
               Strait                                                                                            Sakar ya                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (5166 m)
            (Dardanelles)                                                                                                                                                                           erek                                                                                                                                    Igdir
                                            Balikesir                                                Eskisehir                                                                                   Cek                                                                                                                                Agri
                                                                                                                            ANKARA                                                                                                                                       Erzincan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Erzurum
                                                                                                                                                     Kirikkale
                                                                                                                                                                              Yozgat                                         Sivas                      t
                                                                              Kütahya                                                                                                                                                               Fira                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Maku
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AZER.
                                                                                                                                                                                                    zil
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ki
                                                                                                                                                     Kirsehir                                                                                                  Tunceli
                                                                                                    Afyon                                                                                                                                                                       Bingöl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mus
                               Izmir
                                                Manisa
                                                                            Usak
                                                                                                                                       Tuz
                                                                                                                                       Gölü                 Nevsehir                                                                                      Elazig                         Mu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ra   t                               Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Van       Van
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Salmas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ISLAMIC
                                                                                                                      Aksehir
              38°N
                                                                                                                       Gölü
                                                                                                                                                Aksaray
                                                                                                                                                                                       Kayseri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bitlis                                    REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Malatya
                                                 Aydin                                        Hoyran
                                                                                               Gölü                                                              Nigde                                                                                                               Diyarbakir                      Siirt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IRAN
                                                               Denizli                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Batman                                                   To
                                                                                                        Baysehir            Konya                                                                                                                Adiyaman                                                                                                  Oroumieh
                                                                                     Burdur                Gölü                                                                                                    Kahraman                                                                           Tigris                            Hakkari
                                                                                                    Isparta                                                                                                          Maras                                                                                       Sirnak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                an
                                                                                                                                                                                                               yh
                                                                                                                                                                                        n




                                                  Mugla                                                                                                                                                   Ce                                            ates                                  Mardin
                                                                                                                                                                                     yha




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Euph                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                   Se




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dahuk
                      GR




                                                                                                                                       Gö      Karaman                                  Osmaniye                                     Gaziantep                 Sanliurfa                                        To Damir
                                                                                          Antalya                                         ks                                                                                                                                                                      Kabu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                ri
                            EE




                                                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                                    Adana
                                  E                                                                   Gulf of                                          g   la          Icel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Kilis                                                     Al Hasakah
                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33501R2
                                                                                                      Antalya                                   s   Da               (Mersin)                                                                                                                                                                 I R AQ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AQ
                                                                                                                                            o
                                                                                                                                       To r
              36°N                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                               Hatay (Antakya)                          Aleppo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SYRIAN       AB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SY RIA N A R A B
JULY 2008




                                                          Mediterranean Sea
                                                28°E                             30°E                                  32°E                            34°E
                                                                                                                                                                                             To Ladhiqiyah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUBL I C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REPUB L                                                                   42°E                          44°E
