Report No. PID7601
PID7601.TXT
Project Name                     Cameroon-Railway Concessioning Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       CMPE54786
Borrower                         Government of Cameroon
PID Update                       January 11, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           February 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 20, 1999
Infrastructure and Equipment Rehabilitation and Informatics Components:
Mr. Monpert
CAMRAIL
51, rue Louis Blanc
92400 Courbevoie, France
Telephone: (33-01) 41 41 5492
Fax: (33-01) 41 41 5038
Management Capacity Development Component:
Bassoro Aminou, President of the Privatization Committee
Ministry of Transport/ Ministry of Economy and Finance/ Ministry of
Public Investment
Yaounde, Cameroon
Telephone: (237) 239 750
Fax: (237) 255 108
1.      Country Background.   Throughout the 1970s and until 1985, Cameroon
registered an average real growth rate of about 8 percent per year. A major
factor of this growth was the production of oil, which accounted for about 45
percent of Government revenues. Three external shocks, starting in 1985-86,
demonstrated the fragility of the oil-dependent economy: decline in external
terms of trade (coffee, cocoa and oil), depreciation of the dollar and decline
in oil production. As a result, the economy and living standards began to
decline. Per capita income fell by 55 percent between 1986 and 1993; the
population living in poverty increased from 40 percent of households in 1983
to 48 percent in 1993.
2.      A first Structural Adjustment Program was launched in 1989, supported by
a World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan, but failed to halt the economic
decline, largely since it was not accompanied by a real depreciation in the
CFA Franc (CFAF). The CFAF devaluation in January 1994 created a pre-
condition for resumption of positive real growth and an improvement in the
country's external competitiveness. In parallel, the Government implemented
the Central Africa Customs and Economic Union tax and tariff reform to
simplify the tariff structure and eliminate all remaining quantitative
restrictions on merchandise imports. However, adjustment efforts remained
weak; as a result, Cameroon's long-term development has been plagued by three



main constraints: (a) a fiscal crisis, with inadequate resource mobilization,
poor public expenditure orientation and a crippling internal debt; (b) a
residual external debt, for which the debt service, including payment arrears,
amounted to 111 percent of total government revenues in 1994; and (c) uneven
ownership and commitment to the adjustment agenda.
3.      Since early 1995, the Government has clearly demonstrated its commitment
to reverse past trends. All outstanding activities agreed under the IDA-
financed Economic Recovery Credit have been completed. The Government has
announced and is following additional adjustment measures, including, among
others, acceleration of the privatization program and improvement of the
privatization procedure under the auspices of a Presidential committee
responsible for ensuring transparency. Another Structural Adjustment Credit
was approved and became effective in 1996.
4.      Sector Background. [Note:   Summarize assessments of key policy,
institutional and other issues, and the Government's strategy to address them,
referencing the economic and sector work of the Bank and other development
agencies.] Cameroon's 1993 Transport Sector Strategy (TSS) identified the
following priority issues: (a) lack of adequate road maintenance due to
declining Government revenues; and (b) inefficient public transport
enterprises (including REGIFERCAM ), which cause a severe drain on Government
resources. The TSS recommended the following actions to address these issues:
(i) strengthen road maintenance capacity and develop a sustainable road
maintenance policy; (ii) improve road transport fiscal policy and cost
recovery; (iii) restructure public enterprises; (iv) improve institutional
capacity and strengthen transport sector management; and (v) further improve
transit transport facilitation and the corridor's competitiveness. The FY 1996
Transport Sector Program (TSP) further identified the following issues: (a)
weak sector management and institutions; (b) unsatisfactory regulatory
framework; (c) non-performing transport sector public enterprises (of which
REGIFERCAM was identified as one of the largest debtors); (d) missed sector
investment opportunities; (e) inefficient maintenance of existing
infrastructure; and (f) lack of competitiveness. Transport services in
isolated rural areas (including rail services) are a national priority to
facilitate passenger movement and transport goods to and from isolated rural
areas to help cure regional economic imbalances. The TSP focused on addressing
these issues by: (i) strengthening sector institutions; (ii) improving road
maintenance capacity; and (iii) restructuring or privatizing public transport
enterprises.
5.      In the railway subsector, as noted above, REGIFERCAM is an inefficient
public sector company in charge of the national railways, which has become a
drain on the Government budget. Despite a major reduction of its workforce in
the last few years, it still suffers from overstaffing, lack of commercial
orientation and interference from the government on management and procurement
decisions; it generates heavy deficits. Unmaintained track and rolling stock
have led to unreliable and unsafe railway service. Due to its lack of
commercial behavior and the poor quality of services offered, rail transport
has lost freight custom to road transport. The railway is particularly
important as a means to facilitate the transit trade with Chad and the Central
African Republic (CAR).
6.      The proposed operation directly addresses the need to restructure public
enterprises in the transport sector by concessioning the national railway to
- 2-



the private sector. It will also contribute to reducing the burden on
Government resources for transport by effecting private operation of
REGIFERCAM. Operational efficiencies and improved transport service quality
gained through concessioning will preserve rail infrastructure and will
improve the competitiveness of domestic freight and transit transport to Chad
and CAR. Government institutions (particularly the Ministry of Transport) will
be strengthened by focusing on concession monitoring rather than on operating
an inefficient public enterprise. The project will further develop a
regulatory framework to facilitate private sector development in the transport
sector.
7.      Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed project are to: (a)
improve the efficiency and sustainability of the transport sector through
private operation of the railway sector; and (b) eliminate the burden on
public finance for provision of railway services. These objectives support
the Government's 1993 Transport Sector Strategy, and 1996 Letter of Sector
Policy, which call for, among others, State divestiture of transport
operations in favor of greater private sector operation.
8.      Project Description.   The Cameroonian national railway is to be run as a
concession. A concessionaire, CAMRAIL, has been selected through
International Competitive Bidding; the concessioning process will be completed
prior to project effectiveness. The project, to be financed by a group of
donors (see below), comprises 3 main components: (a) railway infrastructure
rehabilitation, including tracks, structures, signaling and
telecommunications; (b) railway equipment rehabilitation and maintenance
(locomotives, wagons, maintenance equipment, spare parts); (c) informatics and
office technology for the concessionaire; and (d) management capacity
development to strengthen the Ministry of Transport to manage concessions.
The IDA credit will contribute to financing railway infrastructure
rehabilitation and management capacity development.
9.      Project Financing. The project is estimated to cost a total of US$87.15
million. The proposed IDA Credit is US$20.5 million equivalent. Cofinanciers
include the Agence Fran6aise de Developpement (AFD), contributing US$10.75
million equivalent; and the European Investment Bank (EIB), financing US$12.9
million equivalent; the International Finance Corporation (IFC), providing
US$5.9 million equivalent; PROPARCO contributing US$7.2 million equivalent;
and Deutsche Investitions und Entwisklunggesellschaft mbH (DEG), financing
US$5 million equivalent. The Concessionaire will provide another US$25
million in local financing.
10.     Project Implementation.    The concessionaire will be the main
implementing agency and will have complete responsibility for the physical
project components (rehabilitation of railway infrastructure and equipment)
and for the informatics and office technology component (project start-up).
The Ministry of Transport will be responsible for implementing the staff
restructuring component. A Concession Monitoring Committee, headed by a
Government designee and comprising representatives of the Ministry of Economy
and Finance, the Ministry of Transport and 3 representatives of the
concessionaire, will be created to oversee implementation of the concession
agreement, including project implementation.
11.     Project Sustainability. The project has been designed to ensure
sustainability by instituting a 20 year concession with a strong private
-3 -



sector operator and initial support from donors for the start-up period. The
concessioning process has paid particular attention to selection of a highly
qualified Concessionaire.
12.     Lessons Learned.   Support of the public railway company is neither
effective nor sustainable: An earlier transport operation in Cameroon, which
focused on institutional strengthening of REGIFERCAM, was successful in
cutting the work-force in half, but performance did not improve significantly.
This was due to public sector management practices and obligations (i.e. lack
of commercial orientation, Government interference in railway management and
procurement, nonpayment of services rendered to Government organizations)
which proved to be major impediments to cost-effective operation of the
railway. The C¶te d'Ivoire-Burkina Railway Concession, supported by multiple
donors including IDA, started from a similar situation and dramatically
improved the operation of the railway through concessioning. Public enterprise
reform must have support of the Government. Earlier attempts to reform or
divest public enterprises in Cameroon have failed due to lack of full
Government support. In the proposed operation, the GOC has already
demonstrated its commitment by finalizing the concessioning process.
13.     Poverty Aspects.   This project does not directly address poverty,
however it should indirectly improve the lot of the poor in Cameroon by making
rail transport more efficient, thereby improving quality of service and the
economy. The concessionaire will continue to meet the Government's public
service obligation to provide rail transport to isolated rural areas until
roads can be built to these areas. Implementation of the concession will
involve reduction of some 500 jobs over 2 years, will be carried out in
consultation with involved unions and will include compensation packages, job
counseling and placement, and outsourcing of works to former employees to
lessen the impact of redundancies. This social package has been drafted and
approved by the involved parties (the Government, the unions and the
concessionaire).
14.     Environmental Aspects. The project is rated Category B, and is expected
to help improve the environment through better functioning railway and
workshop equipment and more attention to environmentally sound maintenance
activities. A preliminary environmental assessment has noted the following
environmental and social issues to be addressed in project preparation and
implementation: (i) an adequate system to dispose of equipment and materials
discarded during rehabilitation, maintenance or routine operation must be
established; (ii) guidelines and procedures must be developed for transport of
hazardous materials; (iii) measures should be taken to reduce noise pollution;
(iv) enforcement measures must be developed to prevent illegal transport of
poached flora and fauna; and (v) continued accessibility of rural areas must
be ensured. An environmental annex will be prepared upon receipt of the final
environmental assessment.
15.     Project Objective Category.   The project objective is private sector
development.
For information, please contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
-4-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 30, 1999.
- 5 -



