E-412
Cameroon Railway Concessioning Project:
Environmental Assessment Summary
January 11. 1999
The Government of Cameroon is in the process of restructuring public enterprises and, in this context, has
decided to transfer the commercial operation of Cameroon Railways (CR) from REGIFERCAM to the
private sector. The World Bank. the Intemational Finance Corporation, and bilateral donor organizations
are assisting the Government in this endeavor through the Cameroon Railw4av Concessions project.
The presenlt report constitutes the Environmental Assessment of the project. It identifies the principal
negative social and environmental impacts of the current railroad operations and the project and
rccommiienlds simple and cost effective measures to avoid or mitigate the adverse impacts.
Thc operational rail system of CR is 1.009 km and includes a 70 m wide right of way with a cumulative
land area of 8.500 hectares. Rail transportation is carnred out by 61 locomotives. 1354 freight cars and 76
passeniger cars. CR used to employ about 7.000 persons in the 1980s, but this number has decreased to a
current le-el of 3.700 personnel. Rail transport contributes to the transportation of various export
products (such as banana. coffee. cacao, cotton, logs, and aluminum) and import products (grain,
fcrtilizer, construction materials. bauxite) destined for Cameroon and the neighboring countries Chad and
the Central African Republic. Freight transport takes a dominant place in the CR business which
transported 1461 200 metric tons of freight in 1996-97 for a total revenue of 22.298 million FCFA. In the
samc period. the CR transported 1 487 000 passengers at a total revenue of 3.249 million FCA. CR land
and ri(ht of u-av have a very important social function as they provide space for housing of railroad
\\orkers as well as local populations. The main problem of construction on the right of way is the
inadequate management of the sites.
The CR tracks cut across two large geomorphologic units, the South Cameroon Plateau and the high
plains of the Adamaoua at 1100 m altitude. The vegetation is very variedn from south to north changing
from rain forests to wooded savannas and to grass savannas. The area is also characterized by a diverse
fauna of eleplhalits. buffaloes. u-arthogs. primates. cephalopods, porcupines, hedgehogs. and pelicans.
This justified the Government decision to propose part of the forest as a faunal reserve. the Pangar
Djerem reserve.
For purpose of the Environmental Assessment. CR activities were divided into three categories:
I. Management and maintenance of the railway and CR facilities.
2 \lanagenment and maintenance of CR rolling stock (railcars. locomotives).
3. CR Rail transport.
Each of these categories was subdivided in groups of activities which included a set of specific activities
each wvith its own specific environmental or social impact.
The environmental and social impacts of all these CR activities were assessed and are presented in the
main report in Figures 22, 23, and 24. The most adverse activities are: the application of creosote, a toxic
preservative. to railroad sleepers in the CR work shops in Bassa Douala, the inadequate surveillance of-
the tracks, the rental of land and shops in the right of way, three issues related to the management of the
railway and CR facilities. also the management and handling of diesel fuel and engine oil and used oil
disposal all related to the management and maintenance of CR rolling stock, and, finally, the illegal
transportation of bush meat and rain forest logs, and the transportation of hazardous materials.



Cameroon Railway Concessioning Project:
Environmental Assessment Summary
January 11, 1999
The Govenmment of Cameroon is in the process of restructuring public enterprises and, in this context. has
decided to transfer the commercial operation of Cameroon Railwavs (CR) from REGIFERCAM to the
private sector. The World Bank- the Intemational Finance Corporation, and bilateral donor organizations
are assisting the Government in this endeavor through the Cameroon Railway Concessions proleci.
The present report constitutes the Environmental Assessment of the project. It identifies the principal
negative social and environmental impacts of the current railroad operations and the project and
recommends simple and cost effective measures to avoid or mitigate the adverse impacts.
The operational rail system of CR is 1,009 km and includes a 70 m wide right of Nvav with a cumulative
land area of 8.500 hectares. Rail transportation is carried out by 61 locomotives, 1354 freight cars anld 76
passenger cars. CR used to employ about 7,000 persons in the 1980s, but this number has decreased to a
current level of 3.700 personnel. Rail transport contributes to the transportation of various export
produLcts (such as banana, coffee, cacao, cotton, logs, and aluminum) and import products (grain.
fertilizer. construction materials, bauxite) destined for Cameroon and the neighboring countries Chad and
the Central African Republic. Freight transport takes a dominant place in the CR business wvhich
transported 1461 200 metric tons of freight in 1996-97 for a total revenue of 22,298 million FCFA. In the
same period, the CR transported 1 487 000 passengers at a total revenue of 3,249 million FCA. CR land
and right of wav have a very important social function as thev provide space for housing of railroad
workers as well as local populations. The main problem of construction on the right of wav is the
inadequate management of the sites.
The CR tracks cut across two large geomorphologic units, the South Cameroon Plateau and the high
plains of the Adamaoua at 1100 m altitude. The vegetation is very varied, from south to north changing
from rain forests to wooded savannas and to grass savaiunas. The area is also characterized by a diverse
f.auna of elephants. buffaloes. warthogs, primates. cephalopods. porcupines, hedgehogs. and pelicans.
Tlhis justified the Govemment decision to propose part of the forest as a faunal reserve, the Pangar
Djercm reserve.
For purpose of the Environmental Assessment, CR activities were divided into three categories:
I. Management and maintenance of the railway and CR facilities.
2. Management and maintenance of CR rolling stock (railcars, locomotives),
3. CR Rail transport.
Each of these categories was subdivided in groups of activities which included a set of specific activities
each with its owvn specific environmental or social impact.
The cnvironmental and social impacts of all these CR activities were assessed and are presented in the
maini report in Figures 22. 23, anid 24. The most adverse activities are: the application of creosote, a toxic
preservative. to railroad sleepers in the CR work shops in Bassa Douala, the inadequate surveillance of
the tracks, the rental of land and shops in the right of wvay, three issues related to the management of the
railwav and CR facilities, also the management and handling of diesel fuel and engine oil and used oil
disposal all related to the management and maintenance of CR rolling stock, and, finally, the illegal
transportation of bush meat and rain forest logs, and the transportation of hazardous materials.



In order to solve the environmental and social problems connected with the operations of CR a number of
corrective. preventive. and mitigative measures are required. All these measures are presented in the
Figures 25. 26. and 27 of the main report.
A cost estimate was made for the mitigation measures combined in an Environmental and Social
Management Program (ESMP) for a period of five years. The total cost is estimated at 4.087 million
FCFA (US$6.8 million). Institutional responsibilities for the implementation and monitoring of the
ESMP are wvith two entities: the concessionaire and the Government. In manv cases the concessionaire
and Govemment need to work closely together.
For immediate implementation, a prioritv ESMP was developed focussing on those measures that would
mitigate impacts that are life threatening, affect the health and safety of manv persons, or adverselv affect
biodiversitv. A summary of the priority ESMP with an indication of the principal responsibility for
implementation of specific measures is given in the table below.
Thle vast majoritv of measures identified in the ESMP is decreed by the legislative and regulatory
framew-ork currentlv in existence in Cameroon. Implementation of the measures is tlherefore obligatorv
under Cameroon law.
In addition. a special CR concession agreement will be put into effect by the Government and the
Concessionaire. The draft convention incorporates both the role of technical control bx the Government
over private companies in the transport sector and the safety measures required in rail transportation. As
part of the Environmental Assessment. new clauses have been developed for the draft concession
agreement that modify certain terms of the agreement or add certain dispositions. This is to ensure that
sustained environmental protection and management will be carried out as prescribed.



Prioritv environmental and social management program, including institutional responsibilities
CR activities    Kev mitigation measures                                         Responsi
bilitv
Application of  Install a treatment system that limits creosote pollution        C
creosote to    Evaluation of the creosote treatment sites                        C    G
railroad       Make the population concerned aware of the risks of contamination  C
sleepers in    Make CR staff and employees aware of the risks of contamination   C
Bassa Douala   Ensure use of protective clothing by CR employees and private contractors  C
Inadequate     Intensify collaboration between CR and the population living along the  C
surveillance of  tracks to reinforce informal surveillance of the tracks
the tracks     Provide for a reward in case an incident is reported in time (sabotage,  C
broken rail, deteriorated track)
Rental of land   Finance an inventory of the right of way including abandoned tracks and    C    G
and shops in   the users and facilities in the right of way in order to define responsibilities
the right of   and establish a sound land management svstem
wav            Make the parties aware of newv management procedures              C    G
Rationalize the management of the CR land area                    C
Improve waste management infrastructure by local communities            G
Construct security fencing in areas of high population densities  C    G
Make the population concerned avare of the risks of accidents     C    G
Do not allow settlement within 15 meters of the center of the track  C
Management   Improve the management and handling of oil and diesel fuel:
and handling    *  Finalize the paving of transfer areas for oil and fuel         C
of             *  Make sure that all oil and fuel facilities are leak proof       C
hydrocarbons   *  Strengthen security to prevent theft of equipment and fuel      C
*  Make the population concerned aware of the risks of pollution  C
Bassa-Douala:
*  Rehabilitate the system of canals and gates of CR              C
*  Rehabilitate the used oil treatment station of CR              C
Disposal of    .  Dispose of used oil and diesel fuel only to waste oil treatment firms  C    G
used oil          that are registered and monitored bv Government authorities
Illegal        *  Issue permits to collect bush meat                                   G
transportation   *  Control permits to ship and collect packages                       G
of bush meat   .  Organize unions for the collectors of bush meat                      G
*  Provide space for the legal transportation of meat             C
Transport of    Strengthen the control measures taken by the Forest Service       C    G
rain forest logs
Transportation  Equip freight trains for hazardous materials with fire fighting equipment    C    G
of hazardous    and make sure that security regulations are followed
materials      Make CR personnel and the population concerned aware of the risks  C
1. C = Concess...
G = Government of Cameroon
C: Concessionaire, G: Government



