Report No. 23575
Report No: I054786 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/30/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CAMEROON        Project ID: P054786
Project: RAILWAY CONCESSION.     Task Team Leader: Abdelghani Inal
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 25, 1999     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 14, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 21.39
Managing Unit: AFTTR     Sector: TW - Railways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the efficiency and
sustainability of the transport sector through private operation of the
railway sector; and (b) eliminate the burden on public finance for
provision of railway services. These objectives support the Government's
Transport Sector Strategy and Policy, which calls for, among others, State
divestiture of transport operations in favor of greater private sector
operation. The major indicators include: (i) increase in rail freight
traffic to surpass previous levels; (ii) increase in productivity; (iii)
elimination of government transfers to the rail sector, except
compensation for non-commercial obligations (NCO), and transformation of
net outflows to net inflows for the sector; and (iv) profitability of the
concession company.
The main project objective is to provide the necessary support to
implement railway activities in Cameroon aimed at improving the efficiency
and sustainability of the transport sector. Through specific activities,
the project will also: (i) remediate the legacy of toxic waste problems
and establish measures to control and manage ongoing toxic/hazardous waste
streams; (ii) eliminate the transport of bushmeat products on the railway,
which will contribute to a positive impact on biodiversity conservation in
central Cameroon; and (iii) contribute to stricter monitoring of logging
operations and transport of tropical hardwood logs and sawn timber in
Cameroon. Verification of the origin of the wood before authorization of
railway transport will discourage fraudulent exploitation practices
(illegal logging); (iv) improve rail safety through investments in track
infrastructure and rolling stock in addition to specific investments on
safety; and (v) continue transport provision as a social service to
isolated villages along the railway.
Railway operations have been managed by a private concessionaire, CAMRAIL,
since April 1999. The strategic shareholder in CAMRAIL was selected
through an international competitive process, which was supported by the
Bank. The configuration of CAMRAIL's equity and of the equity of the
strategic shareholder has evolved since 1999. At present, the main
sponsors of the concession are the Bollore Group (France) and COMAZAR
(South Africa).
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project comprises four components: (a) Emergency Investment Program,
consisting mainly of urgent infrastructure rehabilitation; (b) Rail
Infrastructure Rehabilitation, including track rehabilitation and



installation of signalling, telecommunication and safety infrastructure
(rail crossing barriers, pedestrian overpasses, warning signals, etc); (c)
Railway Equipment (locomotives and wagons); and (d) Environmental
Improvement Activities, including clean-up of previously polluted rail
sites, timber and wildlife protection measures, resettlement framework and
monitoring of project social impact. IDA funding will support components
(b) and (d), including full financing of the resettlement provision and
social impact monitoring. Cofinanciers include the Government of
Cameroon, CAMRAIL, local banks, the European Investment Bank and the
Agence FranQaise de Developpement.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project concerns the existing railway line between Douala and
Ngaoundere. The project therefore affects the urban populations of Douala
and Yaounde, populations of villages located along the track and
wilderness areas inbetween, including the Pangar and Djerem Faunal
Reserve. The main issues in the urban areas are those of safety and
pollution. Currently there are numerous injuries (and some deaths) caused
by people walking on the tracks, or crossing at unsafe intersections. The
project will put in warning signals, barriers and overpasses to improve
safety in these areas. In terms of pollution, the project will clean up
railway sites polluted under the previous railway administration (mainly
creosote contamination) and the concessionnaire will utilize clean
technologies and adhere to environmentally sound procedures to ensure that
the problem does not re-emerge. Although there is no current or foreseen
need for resettlement, the presence of people living and working in the
railway right-of-way in urban areas has triggered development of a
Resettlement Policy Framework to guide resettlement and compensation
should it become an issue. In the villages, the main issues are clean-up
of previous pollution and continued service to remote areas. As noted,
the project has a specific component to clean up previously polluted sites
and the Government has contracted CAMRAIL to continue rail service to
remote villages until such a time as they have alternate means of
transport (i.e. roads). The main environmental issues in the wilderness
areas relate to illegal logging and game poaching; special measures are
being put in place to ensure that illegal timber and bushmeat are not
transported by the railway.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments:
Preparation of the Cameroon Railway Concessioning Project began in June
1998. The project was originally given a Category B environmental rating
under OD 4.01 of 1991. An Environmental Assessment was undertaken on this
basis, and the EA Report was submitted to the World Bank and IFC in
November 1998. An EA Summary was sent to the Board in January 1999. The
project was negotiated in June 1999 and expected to go to the Board in
September of that year. Expected agreements with the sponsors did not
materialize and the Board date was postponed. Subsequently, additional
questions were raised about the environmental and social impact of the
project that were not comprehensively covered in the EA of 1998. The
project was upgraded to a Category A environmental rating in November 2000
to address pertinent environmental, safety and social issues in a more
- 2-



comprehensive manner and to reduce the reputational risks for the World
Bank. IFC was initially involved in the project, but could not reach
agreement on the financial terms and decided not to support the project in
March/April 2001.
A new Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) was drafted to
comply with the new environmental rating, based on OP 4.01 and the 10
Safeguard Policies of the World Bank. This new ESMP replaces the ESMP of
November 1998. It addresses issues that have been raised subsequent to
the 1998 EA and covers the original environmental, safety and social
issues in more depth. The EA report of 1998 remains as a reference
document.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     Yes
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)      Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The following potential environmental, health and safety, and social
impacts of the project were analyzed in the EA and are treated in the ESMP:
Transport of illegal tropical hardwood logs, and sawn timber;
Transport of illegal bushmeat products;
Inadequate occupational health and safety management systems;
Unsafe tracks and other infrastructure;
Inadequate storage, handling and transport of fuels and hazardous
materials and inadequate liquid and solid waste management;
Serious soil and groundwater contamination from past operations (creosote
and PAHs);
Lack of a fire prevention and emergency preparedness and response plan;
Current residential and commercial users of railroad safety zone and
rights-of-way (RoW), affecting safety;
Lack of employee health and safety awareness and training;
Lack of employee environmental and environmental hygiene awareness;
Potential abandonment of passenger stations having an impact on people's
livelihood;
New roads with a potential impact on Indigenous People; and
Work force downsizing, with consequent social impacts.
- 3 -



Many of these potential impacts are limited and have already been
addressed under current Government and CAMRAIL policies and mitigation
measures or will be addressed by specific project activities. The issues
surrounding the most serious potential impacts are described below:
Illegal logging: In facilitating the development of the railway transport
between Belabo and Douala, the CAMRAIL project would be associated with,
and could be viewed to facilitate, illegal exploitation of natural
tropical rainforests in the Congo Basin. The transport by CAMRAIL
represents today 20% of all the wood crossing Cameroon. If mitigation
measures are not put in place and the wood transport capacity of CAMRAIL
is augmented, the project would increase the probability to transport more
illegal tropical hardwood logs. These illegal logs would escape the
customs and forestry tax payments. Without reinforced control the CAMRAIL
project would facilitate these fraudulent activities and compromise the
recent progress accomplished by the Cameroonian Government to improve the
good governance in the forest sector.    However, the CAMRAIL project also
offers the possibility to reinforce the control system of the logging
chain in Cameroon, the Central African Republic and Congo and thus
discourage fiscal fraud and illegal exploitation of natural forests. The
project offers the opportunity to bring the log transport under the aegis
of the Secure Forest Revenue Program in Cameroon and to reinforce the
results accomplished by the Ministry of Forests to improve the good
governance of the forest sector. The CAMRAIL project will also play a role
to apply these reforms in the Central African Republic and in Congo and
facilitate the development of a regional capacity in forest surveillance.
It is foreseen that in the coming years the quantity of wood coming from
the Central African Republic and Congo will increase, especially from the
Congo.
Bushmeat trade: In supporting the development of the railway transport
between Ngaoundere and Yaounde, the CAMRAIL project will be associated,
and risks to facilitate, the transport of bushmeat and trophies in
Cameroon. An easy railway connection would encourage the bushmeat traders
even more to utilize the railway, and make their transactions more
lucrative, which would mean an intensification of commercial hunting. At
present 80% of bushmeat consumed at Yaounde has been transported by train.
The impact of the transport of bushmeat and trophies is clear: extinction
of the wildlife resources in the entire area of influence of the railway,
which means an area of 10 million hectares of forests and savannas, which
have at present a low human population density and which would constitute
a representative refuge for wildlife in Central Africa. In particular, the
Pangar and Djerem Faunal Reserve, which is crossed by the railway, has
already lost almost all its wildlife, including completely protected
species. In decimating the wildlife resources in the area of influence of
the railway, commercial hunting and the CAMRAIL project would compromise
the subsistence of the rural population, who is traditionally dependent on
subsistence hunting for their food and deprive Cameroon of its tourism
potential and from the associated economic activity. However, the CAMRAIL
project offers an unique opportunity to protect the wildlife biodiversity
in Cameroon by breaking the bushmeat and trophies chain which connects the
hunting territories in the Adamaoua Province with the markets in Yaounde.
Rail transport is a weak but indispensable link in the bushmeat trade and
trophies chain. The risk that the bushmeat trade and trophies chain will
use the roads instead of the railway is reduced, because the transport by
- 4 -



road is much longer and more expensive, which would diminish the
profitability of the bushmeat trade and would discourage this activity.
The collaboration with CAMRAIL offers the opportunity to reinforce an
effort already initiated by the Government of Cameroon. The report of
Cameroon Environmental Watch from October 2000 indicates that the sales of
the bushmeat products disembarked from the train has seen a considerable
reduction in Yaounde as a consequence of the measures put in place by
MINEF (Ministry of Environment and Forests).
Toxic and hazardous waste transport and disposal:     Petroleum products.
CAMRAIL will transport in the near future hydrocarbons for the
construction of the Chad-Cameroon Oil Pipeline. At present the
hydrocarbons transported are for Cameroonian consumption. CAMRAIL will be
responsible for emergency measures and clean-up after an accident.
Historic pollution. Previous railway operations generated liquid and
solid wastes which have polluted several railway sites: Douala, Yaounde,
Belabo and Ngaoundere. These pollutants include used engine oils and
filters, creosote treatment waste, maintenance shop and cleaning wastes
(paints, solvents, acids, detergent solutions, etc.), rolling stock
washing station wash waters and sanitary effluents and solid wastes. As a
result of historically poor waste management and fuel storage and handling
practices at the old creosote facility and at the various fueling
stations, depots, and other fixed rail yard installations, there has been
a significant release of potentially toxic and polluting material into the
surrounding soil and groundwater.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
The provision of easier and reliable rail transport, without adequate and
enforced controls on log, sawn timber and bushmeat transport, could be a
trigger for increased transport of illegal logs and sawn timber on the
railway. A similar process could happen with the transport of bushmeat. In
case there are no appropriate controls in place the improved railway
services would stimulate the bushmeat trade on the railway. This would
contribute to a rapid eradication of wildlife resources in the in corridor
under influence of the railway, including the newly created Mbam-Djerem
National Park, which was created as an environmental offset for the
impacts of the Chad-Cameroon Oil Pipeline.
The Government of Cameroon and CAMRAIL have already put adequate controls
in place to control the transport of bushmeat on the trains and to control
the transport of illegal tropical hardwood. A considerable reduction of
the transport of bushmeat on the trains has been observed. Also the
legality of tropical hardwood to be transported on the trains is strictly
controlled. The CAMRAIL project has already at present a strong positive
impact on biodiversity conservation in Cameroon. Cumulative impacts will
be limited.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
-5-



II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The following activities by the Government of Cameroon, CAMRAIL and the
project will address the potential impacts identified in Section II.D.1
above:
Transport and use of illegal tropical hardwood logs, and sawn timber: In
its Environmental and Safety Management Plan of   May 1999 CAMRAIL agreed
to respect the existing Cameroonian laws and rules in the forestry
sector. In addition, it concluded a Collaboration Protocol with the Joint
MINEF-MINEFI Secure Forest Revenue Enhancement Program (PSRF) and into the
log tracking system for Cameroon in January 9, 2001 under which CAMRAIL
agreed to: (i) transmit each month to the PSRF information on volume of
wood transported by each client, per product and per origin, as well as
the business figures of each client; (ii) participate in the establishment
of a physical wood tracking system and the elaboration of an
implementation manual jointly for the physical control as well as for the
control of the documentation; and (iii) refuse to transport wood (logs and
sawn wood) of which the documentation seems irregular or incomplete (e.g.
invalid exploitation titles or if taxes have not been paid, etc.). In
construction and rehabilitation work, CAMRAIL has commits itself to use
Azobe logs or other wood species, such as Okan, coming from legal forestry
concessions and that CAMRAIL will respect the minimum diameters. CAMRAIL
is also considering the use of eco-certified timber for rehabilitation of
the railway system. Such an approach is an innovation in Cameroon. Under
these commitments the use of Azobe logs for railway sleepers does not
contribute to deforestation or contribute to the increase of poaching of
wildlife in Cameroon. For these reasons the use of Azobe for railway
sleepers by CAMRAIL is not considered to be major environmental impact and
not in violation of World Bank policies. In the short-term, CAMRAIL will
continue to use existing stocks of hardwood sleepers, but will phase in
the use of pre-stressed concrete sleepers which have a much longer service
life.
Transport of illegal bushmeat products: In CAMRAIL's Environmental and
Safety Management Plans of May 1999 and of November 2001, CAMRAIL has
engaged itself to respect the laws and rules in force for the protection
of wildlife and even go beyond them in prohibiting the transport of all
bushmeat on its trains, independent of the species, the season, and the
authorizations or exemptions given by the administration (this is stricter
than the national legislation). In addition, CAMRAIL and MINEF signed on
July 13, 2001, a Collaboration Agreement with the objective to eradicate
the transport of wildlife products on the railway based on the following
action plan: (i) strict enforcement of the Traveler's Code of Conduct and
the Internal Regulations and through the strengthening of supervision and
the development of accompanying measures; (ii) immediate actions against
illegal practices, including the application of sanctions against
passengers, CAMRAIL employees and state employees in case they are caught
red-handed; (iii) collaboration with a Technical Assistance NGO to ensure
compliance and oversight; and (iv) collaboration between CAMRAIL and the
other concerned administrations.
Occupational health and safety management systems: CAMRAIL's occupational
health and safety system conform the Cameroonian legislation in force. The
costs of the occupational health and safety measures are entirely borne by
CAMRAIL. Employees have been provided with adequate personal protective
- 6-



equipment appropriate to their working conditions and have been trained in
the proper use of the equipment. Employees have been trained in
environmental hygiene. Notices have been posted in workshops, garages and
offices describing procedures for preventing work-related accidents, and
for responding to emergencies. Workplace and employee housing sanitary
conditions and facilities have been improved and rehabilitated, including
rehabilitation of toilets, water systems, and electricity and lighting.
CAMRAIL will, with financing provided by the Railway Concessioning
Project, clean-up with PAHs polluted soils, which will reduce health risks
for CAMRAIL's work force.
Unsafe tracks and other infrastructure: As part of project preparation
CAMRAIL has analyzed the safety record of the railway. The following
issues have been identified to be addressed within the project: (i)
dilapidated equipment and rail infrastructure which may lead to
derailments and other accidents and (ii) unsafe informal and informal
railway crossings. These problems will be addressed by specific components
to rehabilitate rail equipment and infrastructure, install gates and
signals at crossings, pedestrian overpasses and conduct information
campaigns on rail safety. During the repair of track and infrastructure to
be undertaken during the 5-year rehabilitation program, CAMRAIL has agreed
to implement mitigation measures with regard to erosion control during
construction, rehabilitation of areas used for ballast quarrying, and
proper disposal and/or reuse of recovered ballast, rails and sleepers.
Inadequate storage, handling and transport of fuels and hazardous
materials and inadequate liquid and solid waste management: CAMRAIL plans
the following measures to ensure safe transport of hazardous materials,
particularly petroleum products. The costs of this plan are borne entirely
by CAMRAIL: (i) petroleum products will be transported in special,
dedicated trains; (ii) every petroleum tanker train, will have joint
railway police/CAMRAIL security protection throughout; (iii) trains will
be allowed to stand at arrival stations for only limited periods; (iv)
immediate off-loading services at SCDP facilities will be available around
the clock; (v) tanker trains will be guarded during handling operations;
(vi) train handling points will have adequate lighting; (vii) CAMRAIL
will undertake further studies on ways to assure the safety of groups
living and working close to on and off-loading points; and (viii) CAMRAIL
will be responsible for emergency measures and clean-up after an accident.
Serious soil and groundwater contamination from past operations (creosote
and PAHs): CAMRAIL has undertaken considerable actions to improve its
environmental management: (i) establishment of a new creosote plant; (ii)
rehabilitation of the fuel stations; (iii) rehabilitation of the
wastewater treatment plant and oil/water separator at the Douala
workshops; (iv) construction of a wastewater treatment system and
oil/water separator in Ngaoundere and Belabo; (v) construction and
management of latrine and water supply systems in the camps and stations
along the entire railway; (vi) training of employees in environmental
hygiene, management and safety and HIV/AIDS awareness; (vii) CAMRAIL is
carrying out a policy of collaboration with the local people along the
entire railway, which provides local people with job opportunities such as
grass cutting, security surveillance; (viii) identification of all people
who occupy the right-of-way; (ix) CAMRAIL has considerably improved
working conditions for its employees; (x) contribution of CAMRAIL in the
- 7 -



struggle against poaching and transport of bushmeat on the railway; (xi)
contribution of CAMRAIL to the reduction of illegal tropical hardwood
transport; (xii) CAMRAIL has contracted TOTAL to supply all fuel and
lubricants for its operations, including the treatment and recycling of
waste oils and grease, which is being used as fuel in cement kilns; (xiii)
CAMRAIL selectively collects solid wastes in its workshop in Douala; and
(xiv) solid wastes collected from trains is disposed in compliance with
Cameroonian requirements.     In addition, CAMRAIL has adopted a policy not
to use pesticides to maintain the right of way. Instead they will work
closely with the local population along the entire railway and pay local
labor to maintain the right-of-way.
Lack of a fire prevention and emergency preparedness and response plan:
CAMRAIL will provide extensive fire prevention and control and emergency
response systems for the railway network. Each fixed installation
vulnerable to fire and/or explosion will be provided with an artificial
water reservoir for fire fighting purposes. In addition, fire
extinguishers will be installed in buildings, in locomotives, in passenger
cars, in freight cars, and in generator cars. Alarm systems will be
provided at strategic locations, such as offices, workshops, storehouses
and depots in conjunction with fire emergency guidelines. Security posts
will be provided with communication links to alarms. In every region, or
operations co-ordination office, a rolling fire-fighting /emergency
response equipment unit will be established with the necessary safety
devices, tools and communications gear to handle petroleum spills and
potential fires and leaks from freight wagons during transportation or
derailment. A program will be established to train fire-fighting and
emergency response teams at each of the sites. CAMRAIL is developing an
Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan for all of its operations.
CAMRAIL will implement this plan and will be responsible for clean-up
operations in case of an accident with hazardous materials or in case of a
fire. CAMRAIL has adopted a collaboration policy with the population along
the entire railway. Local people daily survey the rail system.
Abnormalities are reported to the nearest railway station. This system
will reduce the risks of accidents and discover rapidly sabotage actions.
Current residential and commercial users of railroad safety zone and
rights-of-way (RoW), affecting safety: It is not anticipated that project
activities will lead to land acquisition or resettlement. The government
has confirmed that no evictions of people living in the Right-of-Way will
take place. A social survey identified 1,200 inhabited structures within
15 meters on each side of the track (Right-of-Way is 35 meters on each
side of the track). Although this is illegal occupation on public domain
according to Cameroonian law, it is not anticipated that people will need
to be resettled for that reason. Furthermore, the project does not
envisage expansion or changes of the track which would result in land
acquisition. However, the results of the social impact assessment (which
will be carried out during project implementation), may show that there
are cases where people are living so close to the railway that they would
need to be resettled for their own safety. In any case where resettlement
may be a solution, no matter the reasons, the resettlement framework which
has been prepared by the government based on World Bank policy, OD 4.30
and the revised version OP/BP 4.12, will be applicable. The resettlement
plan will in such cases be revised and approved of by the World Bank.
- 8 -



Potential abandonment of passenger stations having an impact on people's
livelihood: CAMRAIL has determined that it is not profitable to continue
to provide passenger services to many of the villages along the railway.
Some of these villages are not served by roads and therefore have no means
of transport other than the railway. However, until a road network is
built, the Government of Cameroon has contracted with CAMRAIL to continue
serving these isolated rural passenger stations (public service
obligation.)
New roads with a potential impact on Indigenous People: There are no
communities of indigenous people in the area along the railway. It is
therefore not anticipated that indigenous people will be affected by
project activities. In the future after the concession which is of 20
years, the service of the railway system may become substituted in parts
by roads, particularly in rural areas. The social impact assessment will
also pay attention to this issue and identify potential rural areas
serviced by the railway and which are occupied by indigenous people (if
any).
Work force downsizing, with consequent social impacts: At the time of
concessioning, CAMRAIL reduced the railway workforce by about half.
Compensation and pension arrangements were agreed with the rail workers'
unions and were implemented smoothly. CAMRAIL will rely on natural
attrition (retirements and voluntary departures) to manage the size of its
workforce in the future.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
A public consultation program was done as part of the 1998 Environmental
Assessment process by the consultants and this is documented in the
Environmental Assessment Report (see Appendix 1) . The consultants spoke
with numerous stakeholders, men as well as women, who live and work within
the railway right-of-way. In July 2001, a rapid survey of the
right-of-way was undertaken to document the people, structures and
businesses present at the time for future monitoring purposes. CAMRAIL
has established a Collaboration Policy with the population along the
railway to engage local people in maintenance of the railway, such as
grass cutting and other simple jobs. The local population is also involved
in safety monitoring. This mechanism is also used to inform and consult
with the local population on a permanent basis.
Information on environmental and social issues has been made available to
the public through public announcements of all constructions which will be
carried out. Posters will also be placed in all railway stations well in
advance of the works. The affected people along the railway will
continuously be informed about activities, in local language, at public
meetings. Minutes of the meetings will also continue to be prepared and
made public. In addition, easy-to-understand illustrations of the minutes
and other information will be prepared in order to facilitate for the less
educated. Local administrations and authorities receive written notice
well in advance of all project activities. CAMRAIL keeps records of lists
of suggestions made by project affected people and boxes for collection of
ideas, complaints and suggestions will be placed at all railway stations.
-9-



Environment and social studies, such as the environmental assessment and
the social surveys have been disclosed in country and at the Info-shop in
compliance with World Bank policies. The social assessment will be
prepared during implementation and reviewed, approved of and disclosed
accordingly. The purpose of the social assessment is mainly to determine
if any of the people who live and work within the right of way will need
to be resettled.
Quarterly monitoring reports will be presented to the World Bank for
review and approval. CAMRAIL has recruited a staff member who is
specialized in environment matters and communication procedures, for the
purpose of successfully implementing public consultation and disclosure
requirements.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              11/28/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/7/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           1/11/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)                1/11/2002
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              11/28/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/7/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           1/11/2002
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
- 10 -



Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Abdelghani Inal 1/11/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Robert A. Robelus/Person/World Bank      1/11/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
1/11/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     1/11/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard      1/11/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\February 2, 2002\I054786.txt
January 30, 2002 4:12 PM



