Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24355 CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.20 MILLION
(US$ 21.39 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR A
RAILWAY CONCESSION
PROJECT
June 6, 2002
Transport Unit
Country Department 7
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 22, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFAF 730 = US$1.00
US$1.24862 = SDR 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
Januarul - December30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                   Agence Francaise de Developpement
CAMRAIL               Cameroonian Railway Company
CAR                   Central African Republic
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
c.i.f.                Cost, insurance and freight
CMC                   Concession Monitoring Committee
CR                    Cameroon Railways
DEG                   Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklunggesellschaft mbH
DO                    Development Objectives
EIB                   European Investment Bank
ESMP                  Environmental and Safety Management Plan
EU                    European Union
FY                    Fiscal Year
GOC                   Government of Cameroon
IBRD                  Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IDA                   International Development Association
Km(s)                 Kilometer(s)
LACI                  Loan Administration Change Initiative
MINEFI                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINT                  Ministry of Transport
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
NCO                   Non-Commercial Obligation
PAR                   Procurement Assessment Review
PIP                   Priority Investment Program
PROPARCO              Societe de Promotion et de Participation pour la Coop6ration Economique
PMU                   Project Management Unit
QCBS                  Quality and Cost Based Selection
REGIFERCAM            Regie nationale des chemins de fer du Cameroun (Cameroonian National Railway
Company)
RESMP                 Railway Environmental and Safety Management Plan
RMU                   Railway Management Unit
SA                    Special Account
SAC                   Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
SOE                   Statement of Expenditures
TICU                  Transport Interministerial Coordination Unit
TSP                   Transport Sector Program
TSPMU                 Transport Sector Program Management Unit
TSS                   Transport Sector Strategy
Vice President:   Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager/Director:   Mrs. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager       Mr. Abdeighani ual



CAMEROON
RAILWAY CONCESSION.
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      4
3. Benefits and target population                                                     5
4. Institutional and implementation anrangements                                       5
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                8
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        9
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           9
2. Financial                                                                           9
3. Technical                                                                           9
4. Institutional                                                                       9
5. Environmental                                                                      10
6. Social                                                                             14
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 17



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  17
2. Critical risks                                                                   17
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   18
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         18
2. Other                                                                            18
H. Readiness for Inplementation                                                       19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      19
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 23
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      30
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                31
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            34
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  50
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                51
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               52
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         54
Annex 11: Environmental and Social Management Plan                                    56
MAP(S)



CAMEROON
RAILWAY CONCESSION.
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTTR
Date: May 28, 2002                                Team Leader: Abdelghani Inal
Country Manager/Director: Robert Calderisi        Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: P054786                               Sector(s): TW - Railways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Private Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit     [ ] Grant    [ Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$21.39 million/SDR 17,20 million
Proposed Termns (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0%                                Service charge: 0.75%
BORROWER                                                       9.77          24.89          34.66
IDA                                                            0.00          21.39          21.39
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT                          0.00           10.59         10.59
EC: EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK                                   0.00           10.81         10.81
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             0.00           8.15           8.15
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                         9.77          75.83          85.60
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF CAMEROON
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
Other Agency(ies):
Executing Agency: CAMRAIL
Contact Person: Patrick Claes, General Manager
Tel: 237 998 9742           Fax:              Email: camrail.dg@iccnet2000.com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual      0.00      3.36      11.80       3.01       1.61      1.61
Cumulative     0.00       3.36      15.16     18.17      19.78      21.39
Project Implementation period: FY03 - FY 08 (6 years)
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2008
00M PF. F. Rft,& mm



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the project are to: (a) improve the efficiency and sustainability of the transport sector
through private operation of the railway sector; and (b) eliminate the burden on public finance for provision
of railway services. These objectives support the Government's Transport Sector Strategy and Policy,
which calls for, among others, State divestiture.of transport operations in favor of greater private sector
operation. The major indicators include: (i) increase in rail freight traffic to surpass previous levels; (ii)
increase in productivity; (iii) elimination of government transfers to the rail sector, except compensation for
non commercial obligations (NCO), and transfornation of net outflows to net inflows for the sector; and
(iv) profitability of the concession company.
The project will support the use of economically, socially, environmentally and safely efficient modes of
transportation. Bulk commodities are hauled by trucks over long distances increasing transportation cost
compared to other economies. The development of private railway services will benefit the transport users
of the railway system by providing more efficient and reliable services and it will improve the
competitiveness of domestic and regional freights. Rail safety will improve through investments in track
infrastructure and rolling stock in addition to specific investments on safety. The concessionaire
(CAMRAIL) commitment to environment and project financed activities will improve the protection of
wildlife and hardwood - and prevent from pollution. The operation of NCO are for social purposes, to
continue the transport service for isolated villages along the railway.
Railway operations are managed by a private concessionaire, CAMRAIL, since April 1999. The strategic
shareholder in CAMRAIL has been selected through an international competitive process, which has been
supported by the Bank. The configuration of CAMRAIL's equity and of the equity of the strategic
shareholder has evolved since 1999. At present, the main sponsors of the concession are the Bollore Group
(France) and COMAZAR (South Africa) (see Annex 2b).
CAMRAIL has been successful in improving technical, financial, social and environmental management of
the railway systems, as well as the commercial orientation of railway activities. Freight traffic has
substantially increased (see Annex 5b).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress will be monitored using the following main performance indicators:
- increased rail freight traffic
- current ratio higher than 1.1
- long term debt to equity ratio less than 2.0
- long term debt service coverage ratio higher than 1.4
- staff to business less than or equal to 30 % by mid-term review and 28% by project end.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-95 and Progress Report Date of latest CAS discussion: June 15, 2000.
The project supports the CAS and I-PRSP (IDA/SecM2002-0007) goals to stimulate the recovery of
private investment through privatization and economy competitiveness. The Government has requested IDA
assistance to divest itself of the largest public transport companies, among which is the national railway
- 2 -



company, Regie nationale des chemins defer du Cameroun (REGIFERCAM). The project represents an
opportunity for IDA to cooperate and to encourage private infrastructure investment in Cameroon. IDA,
the French Agency for Development (AFD), the French Company of Promotion and Participation for the
Economic Cooperation (PROPARCO) and the European Investmnent Bank (EIB) presence in the project
strengthened the private sector component of the project. The participation and cooperation between
international donors and lenders attracted private sector sponsors into a less stable country environment.
An efficient transport system would reduce transport costs and improve the competitiveness of Cameroon,
Chad, Central African Republic and Congo.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Cameroon's Transport Sector Strategy (TSS) identified the following priority issues: (a) lack of adequate
road maintenance due to declining Govemment revenues; and (b) inefficient public transport enterprises
(including REGIFERCAM    ), which cause a severe drain on Govemment - resources.  The TSS
recommended the following actions to address these issues: (i) strengthen road maintenance capacity and
develop a sustainable road maintenance policy; (ii) improve road transport fiscal policy and cost recovery;
(iii) restructure public enterprises; (iv) improve institutional capacity and strengthen transport sector
management; and (v) further improve transit transport facilitation and the corridor's competitiveness. The
FY 1996 Transport Sector Program (TSP) further identified the following issues: (a) weak sector
management and institutions; (b) unsatisfactory regulatory framework; (c) non-performing transport sector
public enterprises (of which REGIFERCAM was identified as one of the largest debtors); (d) missed sector
investment opportunities; (e) inefficient maintenance of existing infrastructure; and (f) lack of
competitiveness. The PRSP identified that transport services in isolated rural areas (including rail services)
are a national priority to facilitate passenger movement and transport goods to and from isolated rural areas
to help cure regional economic imbalances. The TSP focused on addressing these issues by: (i)
strengthening sector institutions; (ii) improving road maintenance capacity; and (iii) restructuring or
privatizing public transport enterprises.
Railway Subsector: Until its dissolution by decree on March 19, 1999, REGIFERCAM was an inefficient
public sector company in charge of the national railways, which had become a drain on the Government
budget. Despite a major reduction of its workforce in the last few years, it still suffered from overstaffing,
lack of commercial orientation and interference from the governnent on management and procurement
decisions; it generated heavy deficits. Unmaintained track and rolling stock had led to unreliable and unsafe
railway service. Due to its lack of commercial behavior and the poor quality of services offered, rail
transport had lost freight custom to road transport in market segments in which rail transport should have
had a competitive advantage. The railway is particularly important as a mean to facilitate the transit trade
with Chad, the Central African Republic (CAR) and Congo. Poorly managed railway operations had also
polluted the environment through inadequate disposal of waste materials, and implicated the railway in the
transport of illegal timber and bushmeat
Forestry considerations: With regard to illegal timber, the provisions of the 1994 Forest Law are often not
enforced and the responsibilities of the state, the private sector and civil society are confused. At the heart
of these difficulties are a weak political commitment to the 1994 law, and inadequate institutional capacity.
Policy initiatives have been ignored by public institutions and by private sector, and the credibility of
government has been undermined. A forestry component of the 1998 Third Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC III) was designed to create the necessary conditions to facilitate forest policy implementation. In
1999, the GOC reconfirmed its commitment to forestry sector reform in a State Summit for Forest
Conservation and Management, and developed an Emergency Action Plan. Government, donors (European
Commission, France, DFID, Canada, etc), the NGO community and private sector are fully engaged in the
- 3 -



change process. Recent changes are promising but fragile. The project will contribute to stricter monitoring
of logging operations and transport of tropical hardwood logs and sawn timbers in Cameroon. Verification
of the origin of the wood before authorization of railway transport will discourage fraudulent exploitation
practices (illegal logging). The project will also eliminate the transport of bushmeat products on the
railway, which will contribute to a positive impact on biodiversity conservation in central Cameroon.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed operation directly addresses the need to restructure public enterprises in the transport sector
by supporting the concessioning of the national railway to the private sector. It will also contribute to
reducing the burden on Government resources for transport by effecting private operation of the railway
sector. Operational efficiencies and improved transport service quality gained through concessioning will
preserve rail infrastructure and will improve the competitiveness of domestic freight traffic and transit
transport to Chad, Congo and CAR. Government institutions (particularly the Ministry of Transport) will
be strengthened by focusing on concession monitoring rather than on operating an inefficient public
enterprise. The project will further develop a regulatory framework to facilitate private sector development
in the transport sector. The environmental improvement comnponent will clean up previously polluted sites,
and CAMPRAIL's new operating procedures will prevent further pollution. In addition, the project designed
a framework in which CAMRAIL assists the GOC to increase surveillance to prevent transport of illegal
timber and bushmeat, with the involvement and assistance of relevant NGOs.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   3ector        Costs     %'of     financing.  Bank-
(US$M)j   Total      (US$M)   financing
Emergency Investment Program                          21.68      25.3       0.00       0.0
Railway Infrastructure Rehabilitation                 36.60      42.8      17.23      80.6
Railway Equipment                                     22.17      25.9       0.00       0.0
Environment and Social Activities  _5.15                          6.0       4.16      19.4
Total Project Costs                  85.60     100.0      21.39     100.0
Total Financing Required                    85.60     100.0     21.39     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key institutional reform for this operation, concessioning rail activities to the private sector, is firmly
on track. The project will improve the efficiency of the transport sector, especially along the central
corridor of Cameroon, connecting the regional port of Douala to Chad, CAR and Congo. The project will
also help to strengthen forestry protection by involving the private sector (CAMRAIL) and NGOs in
surveillance of the illegal timber and bushmeat trade.
-4 -



3. Benefits and target population:
This project will benefit rail transport users within the sub-region, and producers and consumers of
products transported by rail. The project will support the use of economically efficient modes of
transportation. Bulk commodities are hauled over long distances increasing transportation custs compared
to those of other economies. Freight shippers, particularly those involved in Cameroon's primary trade
sectors of lumber, petroleum and cotton, and the transit trade with Chad, Congo and CAR, will benefit
from more efficient and cost-effective provision of rail services, and from improvements in both reliability
and quality of rail transport. To a lesser extent, rail passengers will benefit from more reliable and
higher-quality rail services. Investments to improve infrastructure, including signaling, telecommunications
and rolling stock Will increase rail safety. As rail shipping improves, freight shippers will be likely to
substitute rail transport for truck transport, thereby benefiting road users by alleviating road congestion and
deterioration and improving road safety. Concession will also benefit the GOC in the form of reduced
fiscal burden, and will benefit local concession shareholders through increased profits. Railway staff will
benefit from better working conditions as the management and staffing are streamlined, and environmental
conditions in workshops are improved. Private operation is also likely to benefit the environment along
railway tracks and in depots as transportation of hazardous substances improves and train operation
becomes cleaner. Population of isolated villages along the railway will continue to be unlocked by trains
and work on track maintenance and rehabilitation activities.
4. Institutional and inplementation arrangements:
Proiect Imnlementat on Period: FY 2003-2008 (6 years)
Executine aaen v: CAMRAIL (the Concession Company)
Imulementation: The GOC (M1NEFI) will onlend IDA investments funds on IBRD-plus terms to the
Concessionaire, CAMRAIL, and will make available as a grant to CAMRAIL those funds for
environmental improvement and social activities; CAMlRAEL will implement all project components.
Proiect Coordination and Oversieht: A 'Concession Monitoring Committee has been created in
accordance with the Concession Agreement The CMC is headed by a Govemment designee and comprise
representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI), the Ministry of Transport and 3
representatives of CAMRAIL. For project supervision, a representative of the Ministry of Public
Investments and Regional Development, will attend CMC meetings. The CMC will act as a forum for the
GOC and CAMRAIL to monitor execution of the Concession Agreement, including implementation of
CAMRAEL's investment program. For matters within its competence relating to railway sector
management (i.e. application of transport regulations), the MINT has created a Railway Management Unit
(RMU), with adequate staffing and possible recourse to other specialists as necessary. The RMU will
monitor compliance with transport regulations, in particular those relating to safety and the environment,
during project implementation. The RMU will participate in CMC meetings and working sessions as
needed. The Department of Forestry and the Department of Fauna and Nature Reserves in the Ministry of
Environment and Forests will: (i) provide CAMRAIL with relevant and necessary environmental
information; (ii) monitor CAMRAEL's compliance with environmental protection regulations and
implementation of the Railway Environmental and Safety Management Plan; and (iii) help CAMRAIL
control the transport of timber and bushmeat. Within MINEFI, the Coordination Unit for Safeguard of
Forestry Revenues will also work with CAMRAIL to control transported timber. CAMRAIL and MINEFI
will share information to improve databases and collection of appropriate revenues and fees. An
independent NGO will assist with monitoring transport of illegal bushmeat.
Procurement: The procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's
- 5-



Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). All consultant services financed by IDA will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).  Under the
Concession Agreement, CAMRAIL will be responsible for all procurement under the IDA Credit During
appraisal, CAMRAIL's procurement procedures have been reviewed and found acceptable. CAMRAIL
had prepared General Procurement Notices and transmited them to IDA for publication in the United
Nations Development Business to advertise all activities expected to be financed by the IDA Credit under
the project. During appraisal, CAMRAIL agreed to use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for
preparation of bidding documents for goods and works to be procured under Intenational Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and for Requests for Proposals and consulting service contracts.
Special Account: To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established by the
Borrower in the name of CAMRAIL in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
CAMRAIL will operate this SA.   The authorized balance of the special account will be CFAF
1,100,000,000. This amount is estimated to cover about four months of expenditures. The account will
be funded by the IDA Credit in conformity with procedures agreed between the
Borrower/CAMRAIL and IDA and will operate according to the Manual of Disbursements for
Bank loans and IDA credits. Upon effectiveness, an amount representing 50 percent of the
authorized allocations will be deposited in the special account untill the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. Replenishment applications will be
submitted at least monthly by the agencies. If when at the end of the schedule for the
establishment of the report based disbursement system FMR (18 months after the beginning), the
Bank estimates that the financial management system fulfills the necessary conditions for the
shifting to the new mode of disbursement, the replenishment of the Special Account will be done
on the basis of the issuance of quarterly management reports.
Monitorine. Renortine and Evaluation:
Monitoring and reporting. Bank supervision missions will track progress of project implementation every
6 months for the first 3 years of the project, and annually thereafter. CAMRAIL will furnish a monthly
report comprising previous month statistics on traffic,  rolling stock performance, infrastructure
management, human resources and financial performance of its operations. No later than one month after
the end of each quarter, CAMRAIL will submit to IDA and the Borrower quarterly reports on: (a) railway
operation performance, including progress towards performance indicators; and (b) project implementation.
No later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, CAMRAIL will submit to IDA  and the
Borrower an annual technical audit of the Railway Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and
an annual technical audit of civil works, carried out by independent auditors with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA.
The Bank will conduct an annual review of the investment plan and project implementation. The CMC will
conduct an annual technical and financial audit of the concession and will incorporate implementation
experience into annual rounds of project investment planning six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Accountine, Financial and Auditing Arrangements: On the basis of Bank staff evaluation, CAMRAIL
possess an accountability and financial system that is in accordance with the minimum conditions requested
- 6 -



by IDA. Indeed, there is already an adapted and reliable informatic system, an implementing manual and a
qualified staff. The last accounts ending in 2001, June the 30th got a report on the assessment of adequate
of financial management system from an international audit firm. These accounts have also been approved
by the commissaire aux comptes of CAMRAIL.
This system could certainly produce the different quarterly management reports requested for the FMR. It
is advised for this beginning stage of the project that all the disbursements should be effected according to
the transactions based-disbursements. However, CAMRAIL should start to produce the requested reports
by now in order to be sure of the fonctionnality of this procedure before it is implemented. This test period
will last 18 months.
CAMRAIL will maintain accounting records for the project activities and its own operations in accordance
with accounting standards acceptable to IDA. The proposed accounting and financial management system
has been reviewed by the Bank financial management specialist during the technical post-appraisal mission
and improved, as needed, during the first 18 months of the project to prepare for application of the report
based disbursement system (FMR). In addition to its financial statements, CAMRAIL has agreed to
submit a quarterly report, on month after the end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources and
uses of funds, procurements/contracts schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by component
and by category in a format satisfactory to IDA. Project procurement documents will be retained by
CAMRAIL and made available for review by IDA supervision missions. Project records and accounts,
including the Special Account, and CAMRAIL's financial statements will be audited annually in
accordance with appropriate international audit standards by experienced and recognized audit firms
satisfactory to IDA. The terms of references, shortlist and the letter of invitation for hiring the auditor will
be acceptable to IDA. The audit report, including a separate opinion on the use of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), will be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Mid-term Review: The Borrower, CAMRAIL and IDA will conduct a mid-term review no later than July
31, 2005. The mid-term review will monitor project implementation progress, CAMRAIL performance
indicators, identify any issues arising during implementation and discuss possible solutions to such issues,
and agree on a plan of action to carry out these solution and to implement remaining project activities. No
later than May 31, 2005, the Borrower and CAMRAIL will transmit to IDA, a mid-term evaluation report,
including: (a) project implementation status; (b) performance indicators for CAMRAIL operations as well
as project implementation, to include details of use of credit resources; (c) progress on ESMP
implementation; and (d) a draft action program covering the period through project completion, comprising
program of works, detailed procurement plan and a detailed financing plan. Recommendations arising
from the mid-term review will be implemented promptly by the Borrower and CAMRAIL.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The concession of the national railway has already been determined as part of the GOC's Transport
Sector Strategy and general policy of divesting public enterprises. Given the poor performance of
REGIFERCAM, concessioning to the private sector was the only viable alternative for continued provision
of rail services in Cameroon.
IFC had originally expressed its intention to participate in the financing of the project, but eventually
decided not to follow-up. This decision was taken mainly in view of (a) the financial projections prepared
- 7 -



by CAMRAIL which were considered too fragile and (b) the inability for the sponsors (in the configuration
of the equity of the concession copany which was prevailing at the time) to provide adequate guarantees.
These weaknesses have later been corrected. However, the sponsors did not want to make a new attempt
towards IFC and found alternative sources of financing for the amount initially to be financed by IFC.
Since the concession is going forward, the only other alternative is that IDA not be involved in financmg
the project. Without the pledge of donor financing, the GOC would not have been able to attract bidders
for the railway concession and the sponsors and commercial banks would not invest in the rehabilitation of
the railway system: IDA onlent financing grants CAMRAIL access to needed long-maturity financing,
greatly facilitating the transition from public to private operation of rail services.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-flnanced                                                  Progrss (IP)  Objective (DO)
Inefficient transport sector      Cameroon Transport Sector         S            S
Program
Cameroon Transport Technical      S            S
Assistance Credit
Port sector reform under SAC      S            S
Other development agencies
AFD                               C6te d'Ivoire Public Enterprise
AFD/EU                            Restructuring through
Cameroon SAC
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
The project is taking into account the experience of the railway concessioning project in Cote d'lvoire and in Brazil.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
1. Support of public rail company is neither effective nor sustainable. An earlier transport operation in
Cameroon, which focused on institutional strengthening of REGIFERCAM, was successful in cutting the
work-force in half, but perfornance did not improve significantly. This was due to public sector
management practices and obligations (i.e. lack of commercial orientation, Government interference in
railway management and procurement, no payment of services rendered to Government organizations)
which proved to be major impediments to cost-effective operation of the railway.  The COte
d'Ivoire-Burkina Railway Concession, supported by multiple donors including IDA, started from a similar
situation and dramatically improved the operation of the railway through concessioning.
2. Public enterprise reform must have support of the Govemment. Earlier attempts to reform or divest
public enterprises in Cameroon are not sufficiently advanced to draw conclusions on the commitment of
Government. However, in the proposed operation, the GOC has already demonstrated its commitment by
finalizing the concessioriing process.
- 8-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOC has endorsed concessioning in the Transport Sector Strategy and the Sector Policy Letter for the
FY 1996 Transport Sector Program. In a smooth and transparent process, the GOC selected the railway
concessionaire; the Concession Agreement has been signed and is effective. The GOC is actively seeking
the Bank's advice and assistance on the proposed operation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has played an active role in development of both the Transport Sector Strategy and the Transport
Sector Program, of which this project is a component. Bank support has facilitated the concessioning
process by attracting qualified bidders with sufficient capital and providing long-maturing financing to
assist the Concessionaire. The Bank brings considerable experience in privatization and concessioning to
assist the Borrower and CAMRAIL, and the Bank has advised the GOC throughout the concessioning
process. In Cameroon, Bank support for project and strategies attracts other donors and provides a
framnework for coordinated and coherent sector investmnent Linkages with the Bank's forestry program will
serve to strengthen the effectiveness of forestry protection measures.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$80 million; ERR = 26 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
NPV has been calculated at a 10% discount rate.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 17.7 % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact is estimated at a net present value (10 percent discount rate) of CFAF 30.2 billion for the
first ten years of the concession. The main fiscal surplus incurs from: sales taxes, duties on imports of
spare parts, and equipment for the priority investment program, revenue taxes, and revenue from the sale of
the rolling stock and concession fee.
3. Technical:
N/A
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
CAMRAEL, the concessionaire, will be responsible for implementing the project. CAMRAIL, a
consortium of intemational and local firms and shareholders, was selected according to international
competitive bidding. The concession arrangement is detailed in Annex 2a and 2b and CAMRAEL's
shareholders and project sponsors are described in Annex 2c.
4.2 Project management:
-9-



A Concession Monitoring Committee has been created, simultaneous with Concession Agreement
effectiveness to monitor the Concession Agreement and investment program. The CMC is headed by a
Government designee and comprise representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI), the
Ministry of Transport and 3 representatives of CAMRAEL. The CMC will act as a forum for the GOC and
CAMRAIL to monitor execution of the Concession Agreement, including implementation of CAMRAIL's
investment program. Under the current Transport Sector Program, a Railway Management Unit has been
set up in the MINT to monitor project compliance with general transport sector regulations. CAMRAIL's
management: CAMRAIL employs three expatriate managers during the initial takeover period.
CAMRAIL has taken over 40 managers from REGIFERCAM. Expatriate managers have
adequate expertise in the field for which they are proposed.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Under the Concession Agreement, CAMRAIL will be responsible for all procurement under the IDA
Credit. Please see Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Please see Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summnarize the steps undertaken for envirornental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Preparation of the Cameroon Railway Concessioning Project began in June 1998. The project
was originally given a Category B environmental rating under OD 4.01 of 1991.    An
Environmental Assessment was undertaken on this basis, and the EA Report was submitted to the
World Bank and IFC in November 1998. An EA Summary was sent to the Board in January
1999. The project was negotiated in June 1999 and expected to go to the Board in September of
that year. Expected agreements with the sponsors did not materialize and the Board date was
postponed. Subsequently, additional questions were raised about the environmental and social
impact of the project that were not comprehensively covered in the EA of 1998. The project was
upgraded to a Category A environmental rating in November 2000 to address pertinent
environmental, safety and social issues in a more comprehensive manner and to reduce the
reputational risks for the World Bank.
A new Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) was drafted to comply with the new
environmental rating, based on OP 4.01 and the 10 Safeguard Policies of the World Bank. This
new ESMP replaces the ESMP of November 1998. It addresses issues that have been raised
subsequent to the 1998 EA and covers the original enviromnental, safety and social issues in more
depth. The EA report of 1998 remains as a reference document.
The following potential environmental, health and safety, and social impacts of the project were
analyzed in the EA and are treated in the ESMP:
*     Transport of illegal tropical hardwood logs, and sawn timber;
*     Transport of illegal bushmeat products;
- 10 -



*     Inadequate occupational health and safety management systems;
*     Unsafe tracks and other infrastructure;
*     Inadequate storage, handling and transport of fuels and hazardous materials and
inadequate liquid and solid waste management;
*     Serious soil and groundwater contamination from past operations (creosote and PAHs);
*     Lack of a fire prevention and emergency preparedness and response plan;
*     Cunrent residential and commercial users of railroad safety zone and rights-of-way (RoW),
affecting safety;
*     Lack of employee health and safety awareness and training;
*     Lack of employee environmental and environmental hygiene awareness;
*     Potential abandomnent of passenger stations having an impact on people's livelihood;
*     New roads with a potential impact on Indigenous People; and
*     Work force downsizing, with consequent social impacts.
Many of these potential impacts are limited and have already been addressed under current
Government and CAMRAIL policies and mitigation measures or will be addressed by specific
project activities.
The results of the environmental assessment, and an outline of the ESMP are presented in Annex 11.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The World Bank Safeguard Policies triggered by the project are: Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04) and Forestry (OP 4.36). The triggering of the Involuntary
Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12) is to be determined. The following activities by the Government of
Cameroon, CAMRAIL and the project will address the potential impacts:
Environmental Assessment Policy (OP 4.01): This policy has been complied with through the
preparation of the EA report and the ESMP (Environmental and Social Management Plan).
Forestry Policy (OP 4.36): Transport and use of illegal tropical hardwood logs, and sawn
timber: In its Environmental and Safety Management Plan of May 1999 CAMRAIL agreed to
respect the existing Cameroonian laws and rules in the forestry sector. In addition, it concluded a
Collaboration Protocol with the Joint MINEF-MINEFI Secure Forest Revenue Enhancement
Program (PSRF) and into the log
tracking system for Cameroon in January 9, 2001.
Natural Habitat Policy (OP 4.04): Transport of illegal bushmeat products: In CAMRAIL's
Environmental and Safety Management Plans of May 1999 and of November 2001, CAMRAIL
has engaged itself to respect the laws and rules in force for the protection of wildlife and even go
beyond them in prohibiting the transport of all bushmeat on its trains, independent of the species,
the season, and the authorizations or exemptions given by the administration (this is stricter than
the national legislation). In addition, CAMRAIL and MINEF signed on July 13, 2001, a
Collaboration Agreement with the objective to eradicate the transport of wildlife products on the
-11 -



railway.
Occupational health and safety management systems: CAMRAIL's occupational health and
safety system conform the Cameroonian legislation in force. The costs of the occupational health
and safety measures are entirely bome by CAMRAIL. CAMRAIL will, with financing provided by
the Railway Concessioning Project, clean-up with PAHs polluted soils, which will reduce health
risks for CAMRAIL's work force.
Unsafe tracks and other infrastructure: As part of project preparation CAMRAIL has analyzed
the safety record of the railway. The issues identified will be addressed within the project by
specific investments: (i) dilapidated equipment and rail infrastructure which may lead to
derailments and other accidents and (ii) unsafe informal and infonmal railway crossings. During
the repair of track and infrastructure, CAMRAIL has agreed to implement mitigation measures
with regard to erosion control during construction, rehabilitation of areas used for ballast
quarrying, and proper disposal and/or reuse of recovered ballast, rails and sleepers.
Inadequate storage, handling and transport offuels and hazardous materials and inadequate
liquid and solid waste management: CAMRAIL has planed several measures to ensure safe
transport of hazardous materials, particularly petroleum products. The costs of this plan are borne
entirely by CAMRAIL.
Serious soil and groundwater contamination from past operations (creosote and PAHs):
CAMRAIL has undertaken considerable actions to improve its enviromnental management (see
Annex l1). In addition, CAMRAIL has adopted a policy not to use pesticides to maintain the
right of way. Instead they will work closely with the local population along the entire railway and
pay local labor to maintain the right-of-way.
Lack of a fire prevention and emergency preparedness and response plan: CAMRAIL will
provide extensive fire prevention and control and emergency response systems for the railway
network. CAMRAIL is developing an Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan for all of its
operations.
Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OP 4.12): Current residential and commercial users of
railroad safety zone and rights-of-way (RoW), affecting safety: It is not anticipated that project
activities will lead to land acquisition or resettlement. The government has confirmed that no
evictions of people living in the Right-of-Way will take place. A social survey identified 1,200
inhabited structures within 15 meters on each side of the track (Right-of-Way is 35 meters on
each side of the track). Although this is illegal occupation on public domain according to
Cameroonian law, it is not anticipated that people will need to be resettled for that reason.
Furthermore, the project does not envisage expansion or changes of the track which would result
in land acquisition. However, the results of the social impact assessment (which will be carried out
during project implementation), may show that there are cases where people are living so close to
the railway that they would need to be resettled for their own safety. In any case where
resettlement may be a solution, no matter the reasons, the resettlement framework which has been
prepared by the govenmment based on World Bank policy, OD 4.30 and the revised version
- 12 -



OP/BP 4.12, will be applicable. The resettlement plan will in such cases be revised and approved
of by the World Bank.
Potential abandonment of passenger stations having an impact on people's livelihood:
CAMRAIL has determined that it is not profitable to continue to provide passenger services to
many of the villages along the railway. Some of these villages are not served by roads and
therefore have no means of transport other than the railway. However, until a road network is
built, the Govermnent of Cameroon has contracted with CAMRAIL to continue serving these
isolated rural passenger stations (public service obligation.)
Indigenous People: There are no communities of indigenous people in the area along the railway.
It is therefore not anticipated that indigenous people will be affected by project activities.
Work force downsizing, with consequent social impacts: At the time of concessioning,
CAMRAIL reduced the railway workforce by about half.      Compensation and pension
an-angements were agreed with the rail workers' unions and were implemented smoothly.
CAMRAIL will rely on natural attrition (retirements and voluntary departures) to manage the size
of its workforce in the future.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: The ESMP has been received by the
Bank on January 3, 2002 and was
released to the public in Cameroon on
January 7, 2002 and on January 11,
2002 to the Infoshop in Washington
DC.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A public consultation program was done as part of the 1998 Environmental Assessment process
by the consultants and this is documented in the Environmental Assessment Report. The
consultants spoke with numerous stakeholders, men as well as women, who live and work within
the railway right-of-way. In July 2001, a rapid survey of the right-of-way was undertaken to
document the people, structures and businesses present at the time for future monitoring
purposes. CAMRAIL has established a Collaboration Policy with the population along the
railway to engage local people in maintenance of the railway, such as grass cutting and other
simple jobs. The local population is also involved in safety monitoring. This mechanism is also
used to inform and consult with the local population on a permanent basis.
Information on environmental and social issues has been made available to the public through
public announcements of all constructions which will be caried out. Posters will also be placed in
all railway stations well in advance of the works. The affected people along the railway will
continuously be informed about activities, in local language, at public meetings. Minutes of the
- 13 -



meetings will also continue to be prepared and made public. In addition, easy-to-understand
illustrations of the minutes and other information will be prepared in order to facilitate for the less
educated. Local administrations and authorities receive written notice well in advance of all
project activities. CAMRAIL keeps records of lists of suggestions made by project affected
people and boxes for collection of ideas, complaints and suggestions will be placed at all railway
stations.
Environment and social studies, such as the environmental assessment and the social surveys have
been disclosed in country and at the Info-shop in compliance with World Bank policies. The social
assessment will be prepared during implementation and reviewed, approved of and disclosed
accordingly. The purpose of the social assessment is mainly to determine if any of the people who
live and work within the right of way will need to be resettled.
Quarterly monitoring reports will be presented to the World Bank for review and approval.
CAMRAIL has recruited a staff member who is specialized in environment matters and
communication procedures, for the purpose of successfully implementing public consultation and
disclosure requirements.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan: see 6.4 and 6.5
ESMP implementation responsibilities and budget: CAMRAIL will be responsible for the
implementation, and financing of the actions under their responsibility as described in
CAMRAIL's Environmental and Safety Management Plan of November 2001 and this ESMP.
CAMRAIL will also be responsible for the execution of actions, as mentioned in this ESMP,
which are financed by the Railway Concessioning Project. These actions, responsibility of
execution and financial responsibility are presented in Annex 11.
The Government of Cameroon has committed itself, in case that people need to be resettled from
the Railway Right-of-Way, to resettle people in compliance with the World Bank Resettlement
Policy (OD 4.30 and revised version OP/BP 4.12). The Initial Resettlement Commitment from the
Government of Cameroon will be US$ 500,000. In case this will not be sufficient the Government
of Cameroon will commit itself to finance the entire resettlement operation.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Retrenchment: CAMRAIL staff have been reduced from 2702 in 99/00 to 2689 in 00/01 to 2632 in 01/02
through voluntary separations during concession effectiveness. A social plan has been designed in
cooperation with the unions to provide fair compensation for loss of employment and promote outsourcing
of works to former employees.
Rail transport service: Rail is the only transportation available to some isolated rural populations. The
Government currently subsidizes rail transport to them as a public service obligation for CAMRAIL.
Under the project, CAMRAIL will continue to provide this service but the Borrower will not enter into new
- 14 -



contracts for similar services, with CAMRAIL.
Safety Aspects: see 5.2 and Annex 11
Potential Resettlement: see 5.2 and Annex 11
HIVIAIDS issues: All CAMRAIL staff have been informed about HIV/AIDS in several
campaigns and have been tested for HIV. A special fund has been set aside for paying of
treatment of personnel who are ill with AIDS.
Indigenous Peoples: see 5.2
Cultural Property: It is not expected to find any cultural property of particular cultural or historic
value (such as for example buildings) in the project area. As no expansion of the railway is being
planned, there will be no land acquisition or acquisition of property. In any event, the social
impact assessment will confirm that no cultural property will be affected.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The direct beneficiaries are the GOC and CAMRAIL. The GOC decided to privatize the operation to
reduce the burden on the public budget. The selected Concessionaire bid on the concession and has
developed a business plan to rehabilitate and modernize the railway infrastructure and to operate the rail
company efficiently. Private operators, transporters and users will benefit from better quality and more
efficient service.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Other key stakeholders:
Railway worker unions have been consulted, and were involved in the design of the social plan including
compensation packages for redundant workers and pension issues. Rural communities served only by rail
will continue to be served by services operated under a non-commercial obligation (NCO) scheme until
all-weather roads are made available to them.
A public consultation program was completed as part of the 1998 Environmental Assessment process by
the consultants and this is documented in the ESMP . The consultants spoke with numerous stakeholders,
men as well as women, who live and work within the RoW of the railway. A rapid survey of the
Right-of-Way has been undertaken and its conclusions are presented in this document.
CAMRAIL has established a Collaboration Policy with the population along the railways. The purpose is
to engage local people in maintenance of the railway, such as grass cutting and other simple jobs. The local
population is also involved in safety monitoring. This mechanism is also used to inform and consult with
the local population on a permanent basis.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
An Environmental and Social Management Unit within the National Railway Cell has been created. At
- 15 -



present one environmental and railway safety specialist has been recruited. The social aspects will be
handled by a sociologist/anthropologist still to be hired. The environmental and social specialists within the
cell have the following main responsibility: monitoring of the implementation of CAMIRAL's
Environmental and Safety Management Plan, compliance with Cameroonian legislation and compliance
with the present ESMP. The monitoring of the execution of CAMRAIL's Environmental and Safety
Management Plan is being performed at present on a permanent basis. The social specialist will assist
CAMRAIL with resettlement, land acquisition and compensation, if needed, which will be executed in full
compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies (OD 4.30 and OP/BP 4.12) (see also attached
Resettlement Framework in Appendix 9 of the ESMP). The operational budget for the Environmental and
Social Unit of the National Railway Cell over a period of 5 years, estimated at US$ 250,000, is financed by
the project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
CAMRAIL's Safety and Environmental/Social Division is and will be responsible for the monitoring of the
proper implementation of the actions described in CAMRAIL's Environmental and Safety Management
Plan, in the ESMP and will ensure compliance with World Bank Safeguard Policies. This division will
maintain close liaison with the Environmental and Social Unit in the National Railway Cell in order to
achieve the needed synergies and carry out follow-up actions.
The environmental and social staff in the National Railway Cell will be responsible to monitor compliance
of CAMRAIL's operations with the Cameroonian legislation, CAMRAIL's Environmental and Safety
Management Plan and with the ESMP. Collaboration with other Government of Cameroon agencies will be
essential to achieve this objective.
The Technical Assistance NGO, which has been identified, will collaborate with CAMRAIL, MINEF,
gendarmes, judges; training of the staff of CAMRAIL and MINEF in the surveillance; organization of the
controls and mixed patrols of CAMRAIL-MINEF; monitoring of the judiciary procedures until the
sanctions are applied; scientific monitoring and communication.
The Independent Evaluator to be recruited (negotiations are underway) will be responsible for the
monitoring of the implementation of the Collaboration Agreement protocol between CAMRAIL-MINEF
through a performance evaluation. The independent Evaluator will produce bi-annual reports. The contract
for the performance evaluation is at present under discussion with an intemational agency present in
Cameroon; it should be signed before the approval of the Railway Concessioning Project.
Quarterly monitoring reports will be presented to the World Bank for review and approval. CAMRAIL has
recruited a staff member who is specialized in environment matters and communication procedures, for the
purpose of successfully implementing public consultation and disclosure requirements.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard policies ap1 to the proiect?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes O No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   * Yes C No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436)                                     * Yes CO No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  () Yes * _No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes _  No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          * Yes 0 No
- 16-



Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 437)                      |       0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
CAMRAIL prepared an Environmental and Safety Management Plan in May 1999, which was
updated on November 28, 2001. CAMRAIL, the Government of Cameroon and the World Bank
have approved the November 28, 2001 CAMRAIL Environmental and Safety Management Plan.
CAMRAIL is committed to its implementation. CAMRAIL has conducted safety studies and run
equipment checks to ensure safety in crowded urban areas (see below under Safety Aspects). The
procedures described in the Resettlement Policy Framework will apply should the Social
Assessment determiine that people need to be resettled or compensated. The concessionaire
agreed to comply with all Cameroonian environmental legislation, the World Bank Safeguard
Policies and this ESMP and would work with both the Ministry of Environment and Forests and
with independent NGOs to enforce logging and bushmeat regulations. CAMRAIL has also
agreed to implement the project component to clean-up previous pollution of railway sites
(funding will be through the Government of Cameroon, who is responsible for the historic
pollution) and will ensure that its own operations are conducted in an environmentally sound
manner.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project has been designed to facilitate sustainability by instituting a 20-year concession with a strong
private sector operator and initial support from donors for the start-up period. The concessioning process
has paid particular attention to selection of a highly qualified concessionaire. The project will remain
sustainable through generation of revenues, independence of railway operations from the GOC, and more
resources to rehabilitate and extend railway services.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
o - -    7Rlsk~ .______                                Rl,'..<5 n   ir ,,H,.isk Mlfgation[M- i? ig,t'^a2aY
From Outputs to Objective
Incompetence of Concessionaire            N         Monitoring of the concession and performance
indicators
Risk that GOC may interfere with          N         Government has shown its commitment to
management                                          concessioning; lacks capacity to interfere.
Domestic market risk                      M         Risk borne by concessionaire
External market risk of fall in            S        Risk bome by concessionaire.
international demand for products.
Lack of geopolitical stability            M         The concessionaire and its shareholders have
experience in unstable political situations in
West and Central Africa.
From Components to Outputs
Risk that GOC does not respect            N         Legal recourse provided in agreement.
Concession Agreement
Staff/union resistance; no agreement on   N         Unions involved in definition of compensation
-17 -



compensation and retiremnent packages.               package and have approved it; appraisal
conditions for all donors.
Risk of cost overrun/delay                 N         CAMRAIL will have business incentive to
minimize costs and implementation time; has
prepared detailed investrnent program and
implemnentation.
Overall risk rating                        M
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (SubstanUal Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The main controversial aspect, although not part of the project, is staff restructuring. This aspect has been
addressed up-front through definition of a social plan in consultation with the unions, including severance
and retiremnent packages, job counseling, placement and outsourcing of works to former staff. Acceptance
of the social plan by all involved parties was a condition of appraisal and has been met. Another possible
controversial aspect is the concessioning of the national railway to a foreign-led consortium. However, this
is likely to be offset by the fact that some of the shareholders are Cameroonian nationals, Non-commercial
obligations will be maintained and the development impacts will benefit the national economy and people.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
-      Other donor project financing agreements have been signed and all conditions precedent to their
effectiveness have been fulfilled.
-      The Borrower and CAMRAIL have adopted the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) in form
and substance satisfactory to IDA.
-      The Borrower and CAMRAIL have engaged independent auditor with experience and
qualifications acceptable to IDA.
-      On-lending agreement between the Borrower and CAMRAIL has been signed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreemnents.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
CI] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 18-



1. Compliance with Bar.k Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
___________                                                            Lk4- C.tA, ,, 
Abdelghani Inal                                   si   a  ardRobert Calderisi
Team Leader                        Se    =anaTer/DIrector              Country Manager/Director
-19 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
. ? t i  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tg
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Create favorable environment Railway services fuily     Future CAS reviews, sector  GOC commitment to
for private sector          operated by the private sector and project work, supervision  disengagement and private
development                                             of SAC                      operation of railway
Continued movement towards
privatization.
Project Development         Outcome I Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
1. Improve effciency and    Increased freight rail traffic: to  CAMRAIL's annual    Assumes continued GOC support
sustainability of railway   previous level by 2001;     performance report          of private sector involvement
through private operation   increasing 1.7%/year thereafter
Financial profitability of  CAMRAIL's monthly
CAMRAIL
* Current ratio higher than 1.1;  operatmg reports.
* Long-term debt to equity ratio
less than 2.0;
* Debt service coverage ratio  Performance auditing
higher than 1.4.
* Staff to business turnover ratio CAMRAIL's financial
less than 30/o; and        statements and reporting
Reduction in delays
Implementation rate of the
transport plan
CAMRAIL's activity reports
2. Reduce burden on public  Eliminate all transfers to rail  Review of GOC's budget.
finance of transport sector  subsector except for
compensation for services of a
Non-commercial obligation
nature; reverse trend to net
inflow.
- 20 -



More efficient              Staff productivity tu/staff(less or CAMRAIL              Assumes CAMRAIL follows
work-force/railway          equal to 645,000)                                        good business practice and can
management                                                                           adapt to local environment.
Ratio of Staff Costs to Trafic
less or equal to 28%
Rehabilitated network (track  The cumulative length of slow  CAMRAIL's annual report  GOC commitment to transport
renewal)                    down in effect for more than 90  Technical audits        policy; no interference with rail
days less or equal to 5% (52 km)                        management
Market risk - no traffic/delays.
Rehabilitated               Number of usable locomotives  CAMRAIL's annual report    Local and external market risk of
Equipment/Improved use of   always more or equal to 45, for a                        fall in demand for products
equipment                   total number of 62 locomotives                           Assumes continued geopolitical
stability
Reliability of locomotives  Bank/ MINT/ donors through
(number of breakdown per 100  quarterly reports and mid-term
000km less or equal to 5 for the  report (6/01)
CC, 13 for the BBI 100, and 10
for the BB1200)
Availabitlity of locomotives 85%  CAMRAIL's activity report
for the CC
Kilometrage per year and per
available locomotive more or
equal to 110 000 km for the CC
Wagon turnaround (number of
days less or equal to 7 days)
Improved Environment,       Control of logging and      Environmental and social     GOC and CAMRAIL
Safety and social aspects   bushmeat transport          audits, activity reports, SPN  commitment to Environment
Cleaning worksites and                                   and safety
preventing from pollution
Improved security
Project Components I        Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                               Outputs)
1. Infrastructure           US$36.6 million (17.23)     CAMRAIL activity and         Assumes that outsourcing and
Rehabilitation and                                      project reports,             management capacity exists
modernization                                           audits, SPN
2. Equipment Rehabilitation  US$22.17 million (0.0)                                  Risk of cost overrun/delay
and maintenance
3. Environmental improvement US$5.14 million (4.15)
4. Pre-operating            US$3.75 million (0.0)
Expenses/Legal fees
5. Emergency Investment     US$21.68 million (0.0)
Performance Indicators:
- 21 -



CAMRAIL will maintain the following financial ratios, on an annual basis, until such time as CAMRAEL
has reimbursed onlent credit funds:
*      Current ratio higher than 1.1;
*      Long-term debt to equity ratio less than 2.0;
*      Debt service coverage ratio higher than 1.4.
Technical indicators
By Mid-term Review             by June 30, 2008
Wagon turnaround number of days less than or equal to 7.3 days  less than or equal to 7 days
Staff productivity: traffic unit/staff less than or equal to 565,000  less than or equal to 645,000
atio of staff costs to traffic  less than or equal to 30%  less than or equal to 28%
revenues
Cumulative length of slow down in less than or equal to 90 km  less than or equal to 52 km
effect for more than 90 days
Number of working locomotives  equal to or more than 46, out of a equal to or more than 45, out of 62
total of 62
Reliability of locomotives and
number of breakdowns per 100,000
kcm                           less than or equal to 6       less than or equal to 5
CC                          less than or equal to 15      less than or equal to 13
BB 1100                     less than or equal to 15      less than or equal to 10
BB 1200
Availability of CC locomotives            83%                          85%
Km per year and per available CC  At least 96,000 km       At least 110,000 km
locomotive
- 22 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
Project Objectives and Context:
The project objective is to provide the necessary support to implement railway activities in
Cameroon aimed at improving the efficiency and sustainability of the transport sector.
Specifically, the project will support concession implementation to enhance railway productivity,
service quality and competitiveness through modernization, rehabilitation and operation of the
railways under a 20-year concession awarded by the Government of Cameroon to a private railway
operator.
Due to operational difficulties, REGIFERCAM suffered a large maintenance backlog for both
infrastructure and rolling stock. As service quality declined, the railway lost its competitiveness
with road transport, which benefited from major improvements in road conditions, as well as from
subsector liberalization. Consequently, REGIFERCAM's financial situation steadily deteriorated
due to high operating losses and an unsupportable level of indebtedness. However, given the real
potential for rail transport of goods, and to a lesser extent of passengers, the railway is expected to
capture a larger share of the freight transport market and become financially viable being
competently and commercially managed.
The project comprises five components of which one is the emergency investment program
conducted in FY2000 and three components make up the priority investment program (PIP)
proposed by CAMRALL for implementation over five years from FY2003 to FY2008: (i)
infrastructure rehabilitation and modernization; (ii) locomotive and rolling stock repair and
rehabilitation; and (iii) environmental improvement activities.
Emergency Investment Program - US$21.68 million and Pre-operating Expenses legal fees US$
3.75 million (not financed by IDA)
CAMRA1L took over operation of the railway in April 1999. Due to a re-organization of
shareholders of CAMRAIL and the delay in negotiating the business terms of the financing of the
PIP CAMRAIL conducted an emergency investment program in FY2000 including (i) fixed
installations and buildings (trackwork, bridges and culverts, workshop improvements); (ii)
signalization and telecommunications; (iii) spare parts (logistics, workshop, etc.) and (iv)
administration. The emergency investment program is entirely financed by CAMRAIL through
sponsor equity and included in total project cost.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$36.60 million
IDA financinz US$ 17.23
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Modernization: Component 1 consists of the following
rehabilitation and modemization works on rail infrastructure, to be carried out by CAMRAIL: (i)
renewal of about 63 kms of track (K'AA - ZING); (ii) rehabilitation of about 200 kms of track
with recovered rails to bring the rails to a serviceable standard (PK506-BELABO, 55km, and
BELABO-PANGAR, 145km); (iii) construction and rehabilitation of small and medium structures
and bridges; (iv) acquisition of signaling and radio-telecommunications equipment to improve
safety in railway operations; (v) rehabilitation of main train station buildings and general
engineering work; and (vi) extension of the railway system of the port of Douala. The US$17.23
-23 -



million IDA contribution will finance required goods for infrastructure rehabilitation (rails,
fasteners, sleepers, etc.), civil works and engineering services related to this component (e.g. design
studies, works supervision). EIB, AFD, and PROPARCO will also contribute to financing this
component to complement Concessionaire financing, particularly civil works, sleepers and welding.
Project Component 2 - US$22.17 million
Not financed by IDA
Rehabilitation of Rolling Stock. Track Maintenance Equipment and Workshops: Component 2
encompasses: (i) rehabilitation of 11 CC Class and 10 BB Class locomotives; (ii) rehabilitation of
42 passenger coaches and 220 freight cars; (iii) improvement of workshop facilities, including
rehabilitation and purchase of maintenance tools and equipment; and (iv) rehabilitation and
acquisition of track maintenance equipment. CAMRAIL will have overall responsibility for
component implementation.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.15 million
IDA financing US$ 4.16 (see details in Annex 11 and the ESMP)
Environmental improvement activities. This component consists of pollution abatement activities
comprising: (i) clean-up of railway-related sites polluted before the concessioning, in particular the
area around the creosote facility in Douala and the diesel fuel stations and workshops in Douala
and Yaound6; (ii) engineering studies and supervision of pollution abatement works related to the
above environmental remedies; and (iii) implementation of the ESMP and the Environmental and
Safety Management Plan (especially logging and bushmeat control) and its technical audit. The
scope of activities for the component is defined in the ESMP.
Social improvement activities. This component deals with two major issues: (i) the safety
with the construction of level passages and walk bridges (ii) and the inhabitants in the
railway right-of-way with a yearly audit and provision for eventual resettlement
compensation.
Operating costs of the Concession Monitoring Committee and the Railway Management
Unit (MINT) for project monitoring, and financial audits of CAMRAIL and the Project.
The overall cost of this component is estimated at US$5.15 million which will be financed by the
IDA credit and CAMRAIL. In accordance with the Concession Agreement, the Government
assumes responsibility for cleaning up pollution that predates the concession. CAMRAIL will
implement this activity on behalf of the Borrower.
Annex 2a
Implementation Arrangements:
The GOC conducted a bidding process to choose a concessionaire to assume operation of the
national railways; a Concession Agreement has been signed between the GOC and the selected
Concessionaire (CAMRAIL). The GOC (MNEFI) will onlend all IDA funds on IBRD-plus terms
to CAMRAIL and will make available as a grant to CAMRAIL those funds for environmental
improvement activities,; CAMRAIL will implement all project components. CAMRAIL will
annually update a Priority Investment Program (PIP) for the project components.
-24 -



A Concession Monitoring Committee has been created in accordance with the Concession
Agreement. The CMC is headed by a Government designee and comprise representatives of the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI), the Ministry of Transport and 3 representatives of
CAMRAIL. For project supervision, a representative of the Ministry of Public Investments and
Regional Development, will attend CMC meetings. The CMC will act as a forum for the GOC and
CAMRAIL to monitor execution of the Concession Agreement, including implementation of
CAMRAIL's investment program. For matters within its competence relating to railway sector
management (i.e. application of trnmsport regulations), the MINT has created a Railway
Management Unit (RMU), with adequate staffing and possible recourse to other specialists as
necessary. The RMU will monitor compliance with transport regulations, in particular those
relating to safety and the environment, during project implementation and operation. The RMU
will participate in CMC meetings and working sessions as needed. The Department of Forestry and
the Department of Fauna and Nature Reserves in the Ministry of Environment and Forests will: (i)
provide CAMRAIL with relevant and necessary environmental information; (ii) monitor
CAMRAIL's compliance with environmental protection regulations and implementation of the
Railway Environmental and Safety Management Plan (RESMP); and (iii) help CAMRAIL control
the transport of timber and bushmeat. Within MINEFI, the Coordination Unit for Safeguard of
Forestry Revenues, will also work with CAMRAIL to control transported timber. CAMRAIL and
MINEFI will share information to improve databases and collection of appropriate revenues and
fees. An independent NGO will assist with monitoring transport of illegal bushmeat.
Procurement:  During appraisal, CAMRAIL agreed to use the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for preparation of bidding documents for goods and works to be procured under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and for Requests for Proposals and consulting service
contracts. Procurement arrangements are detailed in Annex 6.
Special Account: To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established by the
Borrower in the name of CAMRAIL in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. CAMRAIL will operate this SA. The authorized balance of the special account will be
CFAF 1I,100,000,000. This amount is estimated to cover about four months of expenditures. The
account will be funded by the IDA Credit in conformity with procedures agreed between
the Borrower/CAMRAIL and IDA and will operate according to the Manual of
Disbursements for Bank loans and IDA     credits.  Upon effectiveness, an amount
representing 50 percent of the authorized allocations will be deposited in the special
account untill the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
SDR 5,000,000. Replenishment applications will be submitted at least monthly by the
agencies. If when at the end of the schedule for the establishment of the report based
disbursement system FMR (18 months after the beginning), the Bank estimates that the
financial management system fulfills the necessary conditions for the shifting to the new
mode of disbursement, the replenishment of the Special Account will be done on the basis
of the issuance of quarterly management reports.
Monitoring and reporting. Bank supervision missions will track progress of project
implementation every 6 months for the first 3 years of the project, and annually thereafter.
CAMRAIL will flrnish a monthly report comprising previous month statistics on traffic, motive
power and rolling stock performance, infrastructure management, human resources and financial
performance of its operations. No later than one month after the end of each quarter, CAMRAEL
-25-



will submit to IDA and the Borrower quarterly reports on: (a) railway operation performance,
including progress towards performance indicators; and (b) project implementation. No later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Borrower will submit to IDA an annual technical
audit of the ESMP and safety plan carried out by independent auditors with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to IDA.
IDA will conduct an annual review of the investment plan and project implementation. The CMC
will conduct an annual technical and financial audit of the concession and will incorporate
implementation experience into annual rounds of project investment planning six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
IDA and other project lenders will coordinate their project monitoring and evaluation. Project
reporting requirements are expected to be applied to all project lenders.
Accounting. Financial and Auditing Arrangements: CAMRAIL will maintain accounting records
for the project activities and its own operations in accordance with accounting standards acceptable
to IDA and other project lenders. The proposed accounting and financial management system will
be reviewed by the Bank financial management specialist and other project lenders prior to project
effectiveness or first loan disbursement, and improved, as needed, during the first 18 months of the
project to prepare for application of the report based disbursement system (FMR). In addition to
their financial statements, CAMRAIL has agreed to submit a quarterly report, one month after the
end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources and uses of funds, procurement/contracts
schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by component and by category in a format
satisfactory to IDA. Project procurement documents will be retained by CAMRAIL and made
available for review by IDA supervision missions. Project records and accounts, including the
Special Account, and CAMRAIL's financial statements will be audited annually in accordance
with appropriate international audit standards by experienced and recognized audit firms
satisfactory to IDA and other project lenders. The audit report, including a separate opinion on the
use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), will be submitted to IDA and other project lenders no
later than six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Mid-term Review: The Borrower, CAMRAIL and IDA will conduct a mid-term review no later
than July 31, 2005. The mid-term review will monitor project implementation progress, identify
any issues arising during implementation and discuss possible solutions to such issues, and agree
on a plan of action to carry out these solution and to implement remaining project activities. No
later than May 31, 2005, the Borrower and CAMRAIL will transmit to IDA, a mid-term
evaluation report, including: (a) project implementation status; (b) performance indicators for
CAMRAIL operations as well as project implementation, to include details of use of credit
resources; (c) progress on RESMP implementation; and (d) a draft action program covering the
period through project completion, comprising program of works, detailed procurement plan and a
detailed financing plan. Recommendations arising from the mid-term review will be implemented
promptly by CAMRAIL.
- 26 -



Annex 2b
Main Characteristfcs of the Cameroon Railway Concession Arrangement
Scope of the concession and regulatoryframework of railway activity
CAMRAIL, the concession company, is technically and financially responsible for (a) the operation of
freight and passenger services, including all equipment maintenance; (b) the maintenance renewal and
upgrading of rail infrastructure; and (c) the current management of the real estate belonging to the railway
domain.
The concession makes a distinction between commercial rail transport services and services operated under
a "non-commercial obligation." For commercial freight and passenger services, CAMRAIL enjoys
complete freedom to set service configuration and tariffs, in reference to profitability criteria set by
CAMRAIL; special contract rates can be negotiated with shippers, and these rates are not publicized.
Services operated under a "non-commercial obligation" (mainly local passenger services) are run at the
request of the Government, under special contracts to be signed between Government and CAMRAIL;
contracts specify the characteristics of the service and the modalities of the financial compensation paid to
CAMRAIL.
The Concession Agreement reserves the right for the Government, after a five-year exclusivity period, to
grant access to '"hird-party" operators in case of documented abuse of monopoly power by CAMRAIL.
CAMRAIL is subject to the tax regime applicable to private enterprises. However, for petroleum products
used in locomotives, CAMRAIL will be exempt from the fraction of the petroleum taxes earmarked for the
Road Fund.
Duration of the concession
The concession is a "rolling concession", with an initial duration of 20 years. At the end of the first
five-year period, and in five-year intervals thereafter, the concession can be extended by mutual agreement
for additional five year periods, thus preserving thel 5 to 20 year horizon.
Concession fee
CAMRAIL pays to the Government a concession fee comprised of (a) a fixed element, equal to CFAF 500
million per year, to be subjected to an escalation factor reflecting the evolution of industrial prices; and (b)
a variable element equal to 2.25% of CAMRAIL's turnaround in the first year (CFAF 1.5 billions paid for
the first 15 months), 3.00% from year 2 to 5; the percentage applicable after year 5 will be negotiated, but
will not be less than 5.00%.
Rail infrastructure management
The Government keeps the ownership of rail infrastructure. CAMRAIL is technically and financially
responsible for the rail transport plan and maintenance of infrastructure (track, structures, building,
signaling and telecommunication equipment). Maintenance standards are freely determined by CAMRAIL,
provided standards guarantee rail safety.
- 27 -



Infrastructure investment programs are prepared and financed by CAMRAIL (partly through debt
financing directly mobilized from financiers by CAMRAIL, except the IDA Credit to be mobilized by
Government and onlent to CAMRAIL). The first six-year investment program is attached to the
Concession Agreement
Motive power and rolling stock
At the beginning of the concession, motive power and rolling stock was selected by CAMRAIL among the
existing REGIFERCAM fleet. Selected equipment is leased by CAMRAIL for eight years with an option
to buy at the end of the lease. New equipment is to be bought or leased by CAMRAIL. The Government
keeps a right of first refusal on the sale by CAMRAIL of motive power and rolling stock.
Termination
The concession can be terminated (a) at the end of the concession period, (b) a right of the State to take
back operations, (c) forfeiture - concessionaire's failure to comply with contractual obligations, (d)
bankruptcy or dissolution of the concessionaire, and (e) force majeure. The State has the right to take back
operations after 10 years. The concession cornpany will be compensated. Termination based on the
concession company's negligence in regard to its obligations under the concession, the State can decide to
terminate the concession. The railway assets will be taken over by the State without compensation to the
concession company except for the investment in the priority investment program as agreed with the State.
Lenders to the concession company have the right to assign a new operator as agreed with the State at the
signing of the loan agreements without prior consultation with the State under the following circumstances:
(i) non-payment of interest and principal under the loan agreements, (ii) the concession company has
insufficient resources to pay its cost, including financing cost, (iii) liquidation or enforcement of security by
one of the lenders, and (iv) default under the loan agreements declared by lenders joint and severally.
Staff
CAMRAIL staff is ruled by the common labor law applicable to private sector enterprises in Cameroon
and affiliated to the pension system applicable to private sector employees. The total number of
REGIFERCAM staff rehired by CAMRAIL at the beginning of the concession was to 3,000 (out of
3,369). During the first year of operation, CAMRAIL reduced the number of employees by 300 to a total
of 2,717. The Government will provide severance payment to redundant staff and will take care of the
pensions of former REGIFERCAM staff affiliated to a special pension scheme.
Control of the concession and dispute resolution
Reporting by CAMRAIL on its activity is done through documents identified in the Concession Agreement.
A Concession Monitoring Committee is responsible for the yearly audit of the concession, to be conducted
by an independent auditor and to be financed equally by the GOC and CAMRAIL.
The monitoring committee, comprised of representatives from the Government and CAMRAIL, examines
all questions related to the execution of the Concession Agreement Disputes related to the Concession
Agreement are subject to amicable resolution. If the resolution is not successful, disputes are settled by
arbitration under the rules of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes.
- 28 -



Annex 2b
Railway Concessioning Project
CAMRAIL
The Concession Company, Shareholding and Main Sponsors
Bollore                          Comazar
. 58,15%                          41,85%
Equity: 11 303 400 000 F CFA (US$ 15,484 million)
- 29 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
iil
0. Emergency Investment Program                           2.47        19.21        21.68
1. Railway Infrastructure Rehabilitation                                            0.00
a. Infrastructure and Rehabilitation                      2.77        21.46        24.23
b. Signaling and Telecommunication                        0.08         0.65         0.73
c. Civil Work rehabilitation                              0.73         5.69         6.42
d. Railway of Douala Port expansion                       0.13         1.03         1.16
2. Railway Equipment Rehabilitation                                                 0.00
a. Rolling Stock                                          1.89        14.64        16.53
b. Track Maintenance equipment                            0.22         1.69         1.91
c. Workshop Equipment Tools                               0.22         1.70         1.92
3. Environmental and Social Activities and audits         0.51         3.97         4.48
Total Baseline Cost                                       9.02        70.04        79.06
Physical ContingencIes                                   0.50         3.86         4.36
Price Contingencies                                      0.25         1.93         2.18
Total Project Costs1              9.77        75.83        85.60
Total Financing Required              9.77         75.83        85.60
Goods                                                      6.87         53.33         60.20
Works                                                      2.27          17.63        19.90
Services                                                   0.54          4.71          5.25
Miscellaneous                                              0.09          0.16          0.25
Total Project Costs'     9.77         75.83         85.60
Total Financing Required      9.77         75.83        85.60
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 85.6 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 24 99% of total
project cost net of taxes.
-30 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
i____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0
Benefits:                 351,924                            on sales
(CFAF Mlillion)                                              23,600
Costs:                    293,898                          on irnports
(CFAF Mlillion)                                                5,100
Net Beneflts:              58,026                        Total budget
discounted at 10%                                            surplus
(CFAF Million)                                           37,440 (NPV
at 10%)
IRR:                         26%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
1.     Cost-benefit analysis was used to assess the economic return of the concession investment program
over the 20-year concession period. The benefits that have been quantified for the economic analysis are
essentially the reductions in operating costs occasioned by the project. Savings are calculated by
comparing the relevant values without and with the project These relevant values concern mainly freight
traffic for which rail has an economic advantage over road transport. Implementation of the concession
program, which consists of rehabilitation of the railway tracks and rolling stock operated by a private
company, will increase railway transport productivity and improve service quality resulting in a
cost-effective transport service to the whole economy.
2.     Additional benefits, which have not been quantified are: avoiding the liquidation of the railway
company thereby preserving an important infrastructure asset; turning rail transport from a heavily
subsidized activity to a commercially profitable one relieving the fiscal burden on the national budget; and
alleviating road congestion and improving road safety as freight shipment transfers from road to rail.
3.     The operating costs of the company were taken from the financial projections. Road vehicle
operating costs were derived from recent transport sector studies in Cameroon.
4.     Finally, investment eligibility criteria would require a minimum ERR of 10% to be financed. Net
present value has been determined for various discount rates and sensitivity analysis was conducted by
- 31 -



switching values of critical elements of the concession program.
Main Assumptions:
The main assumptions concern the base case.
5.     With the project. Freight traffic would increase by an average 2.6 percent a year. Commercial
passenger traffic would grow by an average 2.3 percent during the first four years and stabilize at about
1223000 passenger-kilometer a year. Passenger service for isolated rural areas (Non-commercial
obligation) will be maintained for the first two and a half years to allow for construction and rehabilitation
of rural roads to serve these areas.
6.     Without the project. The costs of all railway services are estimated to be 15 percent higher than
with project. This estimation is based upon a previous study carried out by REGIFERCAM. It is assumed
that the national railway company would discontinue its operations in 2008 (i.e., ten years from 1998) by
which time, given current trends, the company would be virtually bankrupt. As a result, traffic demand will
gradually be diverted to road transport which would then be the only transport system in Cameroon in
2008. Freight traffic and passenger services would decrease by an annual average of 10 percent during the
first five years, then they will decrease faster until all railway services close at the end of the tenth year.
Non-Commercial Obligation will be provided over the next five years.
7.     Results of the Economic Analysis. The Economic Rate of Retum (ERR) of the concession
program, based only on the quantified benefits (transport savings), is estimated at 26 percent. The net
present value at a 10 percent discount rate amounts to around CFA francs 58 billion. These indicators
demonstrate the strong economic viability of the project. Most economic benefits are generated by cotton,
petroleum products, and general cargo traffic. Passenger traffic ought to be carried by road modes as the
rail mode is economically more expensive.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
8.     Sensitivity analysis consisted of determining the economic results under the worst case scenario by
switching values of the most critical factors of the project. The critical factors are: base line and growth of
freight, investment costs. Investments would have to increase by 20 percent and the base line traffic to
drop by 20 percent for the ERR to fall to the still acceptable level of 10 percent. The net present value for
this extreme case is about CFAF 9,5 billion.
Fiscal ImDact:
9.     The fiscal impact has been assessed by evaluating the differential of financial flows to the national
budget with and without the project. The following assumptions are considered: tax structure and duties on
transport activities and imported goods are unchanged over the next ten years; based on current practice,
no subsidies are paid for operation losses as long as compensation for public service (passenger transport)
is settled. Liquidation cost of REGIFECAM (with and without project) and severance payment for staff
reduction is bome by the national budget. The main taxes considered are on sales (traffic revenue) and
imported spare parts and equipment. Sales of rolling stock, concession fees paid CAMRAIL are positive
- 32 -



financial flows.
10.    Based on the above assumptions and those considered for the business plan of CAMRAIL, the
fiscal impact is estimated at a net present value (10 percent discount rate) of CFAF 30.4 billion for the first
ten years of the concession. The main fiscal surplus incurs from: sales taxes, duties on imports of spare
parts and equipment for the priority investment program, and infiastructure and rolling stock leasing
revenue for the first two years. The rolling stock has been sold to CAMRAIL in 2001 for a total amount of
CFAF 24,26 billion.
- 33 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
Projected Financial Performance
1.     The Cash Flow Statement and the assumptions used in the financial model are provided in Annex
5.a. and Annex 5.b. and summarized below. The financial projections are in constant US Dollars during the
initial 10 year concession period. The data for 2000 and 2001 are actual. The traffic has increased faster
than expected at the beginning of the concession, especially for wood, petroleum products and construction
materials for the Chad-Cameroon pipeline.
Table 5.1 Projected Financial Performance (US$ million)
US$ million            Actual  Adual   ProJected Pmjected  Projected Projected Projected Projected
Financial Year Ending June 30    2000     2001    2002     2003    2004     2005     2006    2010
Income Statement
Net Revenues                      44.80   59.04    64.68   63.44    63.16   58.62    58.80    63.37
Operating Costs                  (39.82)  (46.35)  (47.97)  (42.44)  (40.10)  (39.51)  (41.47)  (42.98)
Gross Profit (Loss)   4.98    12.69   16.72    21.00   23.06    19.11   17.33    20.39
Depreciation and provisions        1.56    6.54     4.77    6.23     6.54    6.25     6.57     7.21
Operating Profit (Loss)  3.42     6.15    11.95   14.77    16.52   12.85    10.77   13.18
Concession Fee                     1.64    2.14     2.45     2.45    2.49     3.50    3.55     3.84
Financial Expenses                 0.35    1.65     1.60     1.58    2.57    2.97     2.77     1.74
Management Fee                     0.99    1.23     0.42    0.45     0.49    0.42     0.41     0.43
Profit Tax                         0.45    0.51     0.83    3.53     3.71    2.32     1.36     2.55
Net Profit (Loss)  0.00     0.62     6.65    6.75    7.27     3.64     2.67    4.62
Ratios                          I__  _   _ _ _                             _ _  _
Gross Profit/Net Revenues          0.11    0.21     0.26    0.33     0.37     0.33    0.29     0.32
Operating Profit/Net Revenues      0.08    0.10     0.18     0.23    0.26     0.22    0.18     0.21
Financial Expenses/net Revenues    0.01    0.03     0.02    0.02     0.04     0.05    0.05     0.03
Net Profit/Equity (ROE)             -      0.18     0.33    0.23     0.20     0.09    0.09     0.09
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                     6.08    3.76     7.94    11.01   16.74    19.91   18.85    18.46
Net Fixed Assets                  13.48   51.44    56.08    78.43   84.43    88.46   88.81    72.77
Total Assets            19.57    55.20   64.03    89.44   101.17  108.37   107.66   91.23
Equity                             6.85    6.85     8.25    15.48   15.48    15.48   15.48    15.48
Net Long-term Debt                          -      29.76    34.65   55.51    60.74 1  63.11   37.20
Current Liabilities                 -      17.53   22.04     6.64    5.42     5.12    4.91     5.94
Total Liabilities and Eaultv    6.85   24.38    60.05    56.77   76.42    81.35   83.50    58.63
Ratios                             _      _                 =        =       -       =        =
Current Ratio                       -       0.6      1.3      1.9     2.4      2.3     1.9      2.1
Long-term Debt to Equity Ratio*             2.5      1.1      1.5     1.4      1.3     1.2      0.6
LTD Service Coverage Ratio          -        2.1      5.8     3.8       4      2.1      1.6     1.7
Calculation includes subordinated loans in equity (shareholder loan)
- 34 -



2.     As can be seen from the table above, CAMRAEL's financial performance is expected to be
satisfactory. The Company projects net profits are expected to increase from US$0.62 million in 2001 to
US$7.27 million in 2002 thanks to contract with EXXON for the construction of the pipe and to the
diminution of the operating cost, which can be explained by a shift from a leasing to a purchasing contract
for locomotives and the renewal and rehabilitation of the rails, leading to a diminution of the overall
operating cost. Then in 2005 the net profit is expected to go back to US$ 3.64 million with the end of the
construction of the pipe and of the contract with EXXON.
3.     CAMRAIL's debt service coverage ratio and leverage remains satisfactory during the concession
period due to the design of the financial plan and the restriction of dividend payments and payments of
management fee.
- 35 -



Annex 5.a.
Railway Concessioning Project
CAMRAIL
Cash Flow Statement
US$ million         Actual  Actual  Projected Projected Projected Projected Projected
Financial year ending June 30  2000  2001     2002    2003     2004    2005     2006
Cash flow from operations
Net Profit                     0.00    0.62     6.06     6.16    6.66     3.12    2.18
Depreciation                   1.95    6.54     4.77     6.23    6.54     6.25    6.57
Cash flows from operations     1.95    7.16    10.83    12.38   13.20     9.37     8.75
Debt service
Principal repayment            0.00    2.14     2.45     2.45    2.49     3.50     3.55
Changes in working capital
other than cash                0.00    0.00     1.40     7.23    0.00     0.00     0.00
Cash flow available for capital
expanditure                    1.95    3.69    10.39    16.34    9.91     4.93     3.20
Capital expanditure            0.00    5.89     7.74     6.89    6.28     6.27     5.43
Financing gap                 -1.95    2.20    -2.65    -9.45   -3.63     1.34     2.23
Cash at beginning of year     -3.61   -1.67    -3.87    -1.22    8.23    11.861   10.52
Cash at end of year           -1.67   -3.87    -1.22     8.23   11.86    10.52     8.29
Debt Service Coverage ratio    0.00    3.34     4.43     5.05    5.29     2.68     2.46
* Cash flows from operations/long and medium term principal repayment
I.    The cash statement is negative at the beginning of the concession because closing of the financing
of the investment plan has been delayed and CAMRAIL had to finance on its own resources part of the
plan.
2.     Situation will significantly improve in 2002 and 2003 as cash flow operations increases and some
of the past investment will enjoy retro-active financing by lenders.
-36 -



Annex 5.b.
Financial Model Assumptions
1.     Exchange Rate: A constant FCFA - US$ exchange rate of 730: 1;
2.     Capital Cost: The Project Capital Cost have been provided by CAMRAEL and confimned as
reasonable by the World Bank
3.     Revenues:
(a)    General: Tariffs are based on average tariffs provided by CAMRAIL by product group per
ton-kilometer and are based on CAMRAIL's tariffs of FY00. The average tariff for all product groups
transported by CAMRAIL remains relatively constant over the projected period. In the first year of
CAMRAIL's operation the average tariff decreased. The projected Base Case transport volumes are
according to transportation volumes provided by CAMRAIL. The company already enjoyed a big increase
in its traffic (nearly one percent per month for the first 30 month). The average distance remains stable for
all product groups except for log wood, cut wood, construction materials for EXXON pipe, raw materials
and cargo where an increase in average transportation distance from 449 km to 495 km is assumed due to a
forecasted shift of transportation patterns between trucks and railway. Base Case volume assumptions are
in line with market evaluations confinning that the railway has a captive market. Past volume losses were
based on operational difficulties. CAMRAIL estimates an increase of 7% to 20% in the next three years of
operation. Total transportation volumes are expected to increase from 1.44 million tons in FY00 to 2.0
million tons in FY03. Conservatively, starting in FY04, only marginal volume increases are expected. The
expected growth in transportation volume will be reflected in revenue growth of 2% annually.
(b)    Freight Transportation by Major Product Groups: With respect to log wood, the CAMRAIL
assumes that transportation volumes will increase reaching a maximum of 300,000 tons in FY04. Starting
in FY05, log wood transportation volumes are projected to be stable. The transportation of cut wood has
increased of 78% the first year of operations based on increased wood processing in Cameroon and better
railway services, and it is expected to grow at a 4% rate for the next years. The transportation volume of
petroleum products has increased by 16% in CAMRAIL's first year of operation. Only small volume
increases are projected for petroleum products after the first year. Cotton transportation volumes have
decreased of 8% for the first year of operations based on lower cotton prices. Storage facilities are planned
to be built up in order to enable cotton fiber transportation throughout the year. Starting in CAMRAIL's
third year of operation, the transportation of material for the construction and maintenance of the
Chad-Cameroon pipeline will contribute to the Company's revenues, especially during the construction
period assumed from FY02 to FY04.
(c)    Passenger Transportation: Commercial services are expected to transport 1.1 million to 1.2
million people per year. During the first four years, the number of passengers are expected to increase by
about 6% annually. No further increase is projected after that increase. Revenue growth is preliminary
based on assumed tariff increases and volume increases for commercial services on the CAMRAIL's main
passenger route from Yaounde to Ngaoundere. Omnibus services, which are subsidized by GOC, are
projected to transport 360,000 passenger for the first two years of operations and 340,000 passengers for
each the following two years.
4.     Operating Cost: Operating cost are based on cost numbers provided by CAMRAEL and reviewed
- 37 -



by World Bank specialists. The real annual growth of operating cost is assumed to be as follows: (i) labor
costs -6.5% to +4.5% in year 1 to year 5 due to further staff retrenchment; (ii) maintenance cost have
increased by 26% in FY01 due to the backlog of maintenance in rolling stock, track and superstructure.
Maintenance expenses are expected to increase in constant terms from US$6.5 million in FY99 to US$8.4
million in FY04; thereafter maintenance cost are expected to remain stable due to increased outsourcing of
maintenance work. The backlog of rolling stock maintenance is expected to be eliminated within three to
five years; (iii) Diesel and fuel expenses are expected to increase from US$6.7 million in FY00 to US$7.3
million in CAMRAIL's in FY04 based on higher locomotive availability and better cycle times. Thereafter
the Company projects increased efficiency in fuel consumption through better train handling, the use of fuel
efficient lubricants and track lubricators; (iv) Insurance cost are projected to increase 13% annually during
the first 5 years of operation. Starting in FY05, the Company expects insurance cost to slightly decrease or
remain stable; (v) other operating cost, including administration cost, utilities and legal services are
expected to remain stable in constant US Dollar terms.
5.     Concession Fee and Leasing Expenses:     The concession fee is determined in the Concession
Agreement including (i) a fixed element equal to US$0.77 million annually and a variable element of 2.25%
of CAMRAIL's revenues in the first year of operation, and 3% in year 2 to 5 of operation. Lease expenses
are incurred during the first two years of the concession before CAMRAIL buys the equipment.
6.    Income Tax:   Income tax is calculated as 38.5% of income before tax.
7.     Current Assets: 35 days of revenues for Accounts Receivable; Inventory: 150 days for materials
for rolling stock and track, 15 days for diesel and fuel.
8.     Fixed Assets: Investment Program as provided by CAMRAEL and World Bank specialist.
Depreciation of assets according to depreciation schedules provided by CAMRAIL (linear depreciation of
the remaining life of the asset).
Depreciation Schedule                                          Years
Assets under Concession                                50
Fixed Installations (Track and Superstructure)         20
Overhauled Locomotives                                 10
Rolling Stock purchased from Government                10
Rolling Stock (new after 2003)                         20
Other Investment (Signaling, Communication System)     5
Pre-Operating Expenses (Start-up Cost)                 5
Contingency Financing                                  5
9.     Current Liabilities:  Accounts Payable 60 days of revenues. Short-term loans are assumed to
be repaid if cash position is positive.
10.    Long-term Loans: IDA US$21.39 million; AFD US$10.6 million and EIB US$10.8 million. The
complementary funds for the project will be brought by PROPARCO and commercial banks. All long-term
loans will be drawn down within the first five years of operations of CAMRAIL.
- 38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
Procurement
Procurement Assessment Review
1.     The project appraisal included a formal Procurement Assessment Review (PAR) of CAMRAIL,
which is the implementing agency and concessionaire/operator of the railway system for the proposed
project. It should be noted that CAMRAIL, as a private entity, is not required to comply with the national
procurement code. The PAR was limited to assessing the procurement capacity of and procedures and
documentation used by CAMRAIL. At the time of appraisal, CAMRAIL was in the process of formal
establishment and was developing its organization and hiring its staff. The appraisal team held meetings
with CAMRAIL's General Manager and the newly-appointed procurement manager to review
CAMRAIL's proposed procurement arrangements, documentation and organization. The PAR conclusions
are as follows: (i) the newly-appointed procurement manager possesses satisfactory procurement
experience acquired during previous professional experience and has a very thorough knowledge of Bank
procurement procedures gained through implementation of several Bank-financed projects in various
African countries; (ii) CAMRAIL has already adopted Bank procurement procedures and standard bidding
documents for their business and has set up a data base of such standard procurement documents; (iii)
CAMRAIL has selected staff specialized in procurement from the previous railway company
(REGIFERCAM) and trained such staff in procurement practices for consultant service and works and
goods contracting. CAMRAIL's management confirmed their use of Bank procurement procedures and
their readiness to comply with the January 1999 Procurement Guidelines.
2.     For FMR implementation, CAMRAIL agreed with the Bank proposal to set up procurement
monitoring and contract management systems during the first 18 months of the project, to facilitate the
development of the Project Management Reports.
Procurement Arrangements
3.     The following procurement arrangements, presented in Table A, will apply to all contracts that are
wholly or partly financed by the IDA credit These arrangements were agreed upon during appraisal and
confirmed at negotiations.
A.     General
4.     Goods and Works financed by the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services wholly or partly
financed by the IDA credit will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1987 and revised in
September 1997 and January 1999. Goods, works and consultant services financed by other donors will be
procured according to each respective donor's procurement guidelines.
5.     A General Procurement Notice has been prepared by CAMRAIL and transmitted to IDA for
publication in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) to advertise all expected goods and
works to be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB), including prequalification and a list
- 39 -



of consulting assignments expected to be financed by IDA under the project Standard bidding and other
similar documents published by the Bank will be used by CAMRAIL for the preparation of: (a) bidding
documents for goods and works to be contracted under ICB; (b) prequalification documents; (c) Request
request for Proposals; and (d) contracts for consulting services.
6.     Table A provides information on the project elements, their estimated costs and' methods of
procurement including elements financed by IDA, as well as those financed by other sources.
B.     Procurement of Goods and Works
7.    International Competitive Bidding. Equipment contracts for the supply of goods such as rails,
turnouts, fasteners, wooden sleepers, and other miscellaneous equipment for the track rehabilitation and
modernization component, worth more than US$100,000 per contract will be procured under International
Competitive Bidding. Civil work contracts for track rehabilitation and bridges construction, worth more
than US$250,000 per contract will be procured under ICB using standard bidding documents developed L,
IDA.
8.     National Competitive Bidding (works): Civil works contracts financed by IDA to clean up
railway sites in Douala and Yaound6 that were polluted prior to the concession are expected to cost less
than US$250,000 per contract and not exceed US$1,840,000 (IDA1,380,000) in aggregate. Such works
will be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using proposed Bank-approved bidding
documents.
9.     Other Procurement Method: Supply of small quantities of materials and goods such as cables,
manual tools, batteries, etc. estimated at US$30,000 or less per contract and not exceeding US$200,000 in
aggregate will be procured under International Shopping in accordance with Bank procedures.
10.    Prior and post review by the Bank for Works and Goods contracts. All IDA-financed works
and goods contracts above the threshold of US$100,000 per contract and all corresponding bidding
documents will be subject to prior review procedures in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Contracts
under this threshold will be subject to post review.
C.     Procurement of Consulting services
11.    Recruitment of consulting firms for supervision of technical works, telecommunications
engineering and preparation of bidding documents for goods, financial and environmental audits of
CAMRAIL and the project will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS)
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Exceptions to use of QCBS will apply to consultant services for
highly specialized engineering, such as inspection of rail manufacturing, design of telecommunication
software. Contracts for such services, costing US$50,000 or less each, up to an aggregate amount of US$
200,000 equivalent may, with the prior agreement of IDA, be awarded on a sole-source basis as they
require very specialized consultants. Recruitment of individual consultants for tasks that do not require
multidisciplinary team and that are limited in scope will be procured on the basis of consultant
qualifications and experience in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Use of individual consultants will
require IDA prior agreement.
12.    Prior and post review by the Bank for consultant contracts: Consulting assignments, with firms
and individuals, that cost more than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively per contract will be subject
-40 -



to prior review by IDA. IDA will also review engineering studies for items not financed by the Bank which
relate to investments that IDA would finance. In addition, the first five consultant contracts are subject to
IDA prior review.
D.     Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions.
13.    The detailed investment imnplementation schedule is presented in the Project Implementation
Manual. This timetable will be used as a basis to monitor procurement processing. In particular, the
following advance procurement actions have been identified and agreed with CAMIRAIL as critical
milestones to ensure signature of major and important contracts soon after Credit effectiveness. The
following documents have been prepared by CAMRAIL and transmitted to IDA for review: (a) draft
General Procurement Notice, (b) draft Specific Procurement Notices for major civil works and goods, (c)
draft prequalification documents for civil works by CAMRAIL, (d) draft bidding documents for goods; and
(e) expressions of interest from consultants for construction supervision and for other important consulting
assignments.
E.     Reporting
14.    During project implementation, CAMRAIL will prepare quarterly perfonnance reports on its
operations and project implementation progress. The latter will include information on major procurement
actions taken in the previous quarter and planned for the following quarter, an update of the Procurement
Implementation Table, time taken to complete specific actions such as prequalification, completion of
essential bidding documents, Requests for Proposals, bid evaluation, etc. A filing system along with an
integrated procurement management system will be implemented to facilitate setting up the report based
disbursement system by the end of the first 18 months of the project implementation.
Institutionnal Aspects and Disbursement Arrangements
15.    The proposed allocation of the credit is shown in Table C. The IDA project credit will be
disbursed over a period of 6 years (from FY 2003 to FY 2008), with a closing date of December 31, 2008.
16.    All applications to withdraw the proceeds of the credit will be fully documented for contracts
subject to prior review by IDA. For contracts not subject to IDA prior review, disbursements will be made
against Statements of Expenditure (see below) certified by the Financial Manager of CAMRAIL. The
amounts to be financed under each category are shown below. CAMRAIL, as the executing agency,
will have to implement the project, it will consequently ensure the administrative, financial and
accountibility management. The accountibility must be held in order to point out the informations
relevant for the Project. The disbursement will be direct between IDA and CAMRAIL, which will
send a copy of each request for payment to the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement for
information. To fulfill all of what is above, a special acount will be open in a commercial bank at
the name of CAMRAIL.
17.    Statements of Expenditure (SOEs): Disbursement on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
may be made for expenditures : (a) under contracts for civil works and goods costing less than US$100,000
equivalent each; (b) under contracts for the employment of consulting firms and individual consultants
worth less than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively per contract; and (c) for operating costs.
Supporting documents for SOEs will be retained by CAMRAIL and will be made available for review by
- 41 -



Bank staff during supervision missions. The SOEs will be audited annually.
18.    Special Account (SA): To facilitate project implementation, a special account will be established
by the Borrower in the name of CAMRAIL in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA. CAMRAIL will operate this SA. The authorized balance of the special account will be CFAF
1,100,000,000. This amount is estimated to cover about four months of expenditures. The account will
be funded by the IDA Credit in conformity with procedures agreed between the
Borrower/CAMRAIL and IDA and will operate according to the Manual of Disbursements for
Bank loans and IDA credits. Upon effectiveness, an amount representing 50 percent of the
authorized allocations will be deposited in the special account untill the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. Replenishment applications will be
submitted at least monthly by the agencies. If when at the end of the schedule for the
establishment of the report based disbursement system FMR (18 months after the beginning), the
Bank estimates that the financial management system fulfills the necessary conditions for the
shifting to the new mode of disbursement, the replenishment of the Special Account will be done
on the basis of the issuance of quarterly management reports.
19.    The SA will be used for all expenditures valued at less than 20% of the amount advanced to the
Account. Direct payments and applications for issuance of Special Commitments must therefore equal at
least 20%/o of the amnount advanced to the SA.
20.    Accounting and Auditing. CAMRAIL will maintain separate accounting records for the project
components that it manages directly and for its own operations. The proposed accounting and financial
management system, reviewed by the Bank Financial Management Specialist, will be used and improved
during the first 18 months of the project to prepare for report based disbursement system (FMR). In
addition to their financial statements, CAMRAIL agreed to submit a quarterly report, one month after the
end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources and uses of funds, procurement/contracts schedule
and statement and summary of expenditures by component and by category. Implementing agency
accounts and financial statements, and the Special Account maintained by CAMRAIL will be audited
annually in accordance with international audit standards by experienced and recognized audit firms
satisfactory to IDA.
21.    At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the borrower and
CAMRAIL will present to IDA audit reports of: (i) the financial statement of CAMRAIL, (ii) the
special account and (iii) on the expenditures.
Counternarts funds:
22.    The counterpart funds which will finance the part not financed by IDA, will be supported
by CAMRAIL. These funds must be available along all the evolution of the project, so that the
project implementation is not delayed. They will be audited in the same way as IDA funds.
Accountability and financial system and control environnement
23.    On the basis of IDA evaluation, CAMRAIL has an accountability and financial system that is in
-42 -



accordance with the minimum conditions requested by IDA. Indeed, there is already an adapted and reliable
informatic system, an implementing manual and a qualified staff. The last accounts ending in 2001, June
the 30th got a report on the assessment of adequate of financial management system from an international
audit firm. These accounts have also been approved by the commissaire aux comptes of CAMRAIL.
24.    This system could certainly produce the different quarterly management reports requested for the.
FMR. It is advised for this beginning stage of the project that all the disbursements should be effected
according to the usual disbursement procedure. However, CAMRAIL should start to produce the requested
reports by now in order to be sure of the fonctionnality of this procedure before it is implemented. This test
period will last 18 months.
-43 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            4.49                          0.00         13.57       19.90
(3.39) (0.00)                 (0.00)       (0.00)      (4.77)
2. Goods                            15.06           0.00.10                    45.14       60.30
(13.51)          (0.00)       (0.1I0)       (0.00)     (13.61)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          3.40          1.85        5.25
(0.00)          (0.00)        (2.86)       (0.00)      (2.86)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.15          0.00        0.15
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.15)       (0.00)      (0.15)
Total                            19.55            1.84          3.65        60.56       85.60
(16.90)          (1.38)        (3.11)       (0.00)      (21.39)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
-44 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firrns              3.20    0.00     0.0     00    .0         0.10     1.5      5.15
(2.72)  (0.00)   (.0     (.0)      000)   (0.07)  (00)      (2.79)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     00      0.0      0.00    0.10    0.00      0.1l0
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.07)  (0.00)    (0.07)
Total  3.20     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.20     1.85     5.25
(2.72)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.14)  (0.00)    (2.86)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 45 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works               Prior Review above US$
above 100 less than 250
2. Goods                 P.R. above US$ 100           ICB                    14.86
below 30         International Shoping list     0.20
3. Services           PR for more than US$ 100       QCBS                     3.20
Engineering and              for firms
Construction            below US$ 50 for firms     Single Source              0.10
Supervision               above US$50 for                                     0.10
individuals                             Review of ToRs and short
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  lists
4. Operating costs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$24.79 Million
(21.14)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Civil works
a. Investments                             2.95                         80%
b. Environmental and social activities     1.20                         80%
Goods                                      11.75            100% of expenditures on foreign
currency and 80% of expenditures on
local currency
Consultants                                                             70%
a. Investments and audits                  0.88
b. Environrental and social activities     1.67
Operating Costs                            0.25                         70%
Contingencies                              2.69
Total Project Costs                       21.39
Total                                      21.39
The percentages are applied to the amounts including taxes and duties (with VAT)
-47 -



Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Cameroon Railway Concession Proiect
Ineligible for FMR-Based Disbursements
Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review
was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required
by the Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's
guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the
project's accounting system, intemal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system,
selection of an auditor as well as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to
be submitted by the borrower in support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
on the status of the project (PMR) as required by the Bank/IDA for FMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed
action plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by: Abdoulaye COULIBALY
Financial Management Specialist- AFMML
January 07, 2002
ACTION PLAN
Action                                                    Date due by      Responsible
Initial Phase
I Updating the Procedures Manual                             done              CAMRAILIIDA
2   Training staff on Bank procedures                         Before effectiveness CAMRAIL
3 Agreement on terms of reference for external audit          done             IDA
4 Appointment of Extemal Auditors                             Before           GOM
effectiveness
5 Credit effectiveness                                                         IDA
-48 -



Final Phase
6  Start FMR on a parallel basis                                 effectiveness
7  Assessment to ensure that compliance with the 12-month action plan              IDA
is on target                                                    _
Start report based disbursements                              18  months   after CAMRAIL
=                                                             effectiveness
-49 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identMcation)                                            06/14/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      11/15/1998                  02/01/1 999
Negotiations                                    02/15/1999                   04/23/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Transport and
CAMRAIL
Preparation assistance:
Transport Sector Technical Assistance Program (ID 35599)
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
,,.   -                - ,.    -      Spcalt j!     t         ~,k    >,
Abdelghani Inal                    Team Leader
Karim-Jacques Budin               Railways
Alison Cave                       Institutional Arrangements
Robert Robellus                   Enviromnent
Lou Thompson                      Railways
Giuseppe Topa                     Forestry Specialist
Laurent Debroux                   Forestry Specialist
Kingson Apara                     Policy Specialist
Hedi Larbi                        Transport specialist
Jos6e M. Bamvi                    Lang. Program Assistant
Kristine Ivrsdotter                Social Development
Nicolas Gohel                      Intern
Guy Joseph Malembeti              Procurement Specialist
Abdoulaye Coulibaly               Financial Analyst
Bertrand de Chazal                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Agnes Albert-Loth                 Disbursement Officer
Claudine Morin                    Lawyer
Jean-Charles de Daruvar           Lawyer
Faustin Koyasse                   Program Officer
-50-



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
A. Project Implementation Plan
Yes
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Economic Analysis
C. Other
Envirommental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) (December 2001)
CAMRAIL Investment program and Business Plan
EA of November 1998 prepared by Buursink Consultants.
BURGEAP Environmental Audit, June 1999.
Environmental & Engineering Services Douala, 2000.
Rapid Social Survey, August 2001.
Report on public disclosure of the ESMP (February 12, 2002)
Procedures for Monitoring Transport of Wood (Febuary 20, 2002).
*Induding electronic files



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
03-Jan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Mllions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P073065        2001 Mult-sectoral HIV/AIDS Prod                       0.00      5000                  0 00       000      45.42      -3 0       0.00
P051059        2000 CHADICAM PIPE (CAM)                              53.40       0.00                 0.00       000      4073        0.53      0.00
P048204        2000 ENVIRONMENT OIL TA                                0.00       5.77                 0.00       0.00      5.32       0.14      0.00
P065927        2000 PubiWPrtlte Parbwitp, Grth                        0.00      20.90                 o00        0.00     16.56       7.03      000
P045348        1999 AGEXT.&RES SUPPORT                                000       15.10                 0.00       0.00      9.43       6.35      000
P055684        1998 Hgher Eduaton (LIL)                               0.00       4.90                 0.00       0.00      3.39       3.34      3 23
P054443        1998 SACIII                                            0.00     180.00                 000        0.00     01.02      62.62     52.22
P000393        1996 TRANSPORT SECTOR                                  000       60.70                 0.00       0.00     16.81      20 31      2 81
P000311        1995 BIODIVERSllYCONSERV                               0.00       0.W                  6.00       0.00      061        1.13      000
Total:       53.40     337.37               6.00        0.00      21907      97.85      58.26
- 52 -



CAMEROON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commifted                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               AEF Comp Avicole              0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Hobec                     0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Notacam                   0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96            AEF Proleg                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Saicam                   0.00     0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00
2000               BICEC                         0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               CICAM                         1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               COTCO                        86.10    0.00    0.00   86.10   11.41    0.00    0.00   11.41
1992/94/97/98      Pecten Cameroon              22.09    0.00    0.00   69.95    6.59    0.00    0.00   20.87
Total Portfolio:       111.10   0.67     0.33  156.05   20.71    0.00     0.33   32.28
Approvals Pending Comniitmnent
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000              AEF Complexe 11                  0.00      0.00     0.17      0.00
2002              AEF FMEGAZ                       0.00      0.31     0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.31      0.17     0.00
-53 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Cameroon      Africa   income      Developmentdlsmond'
2000
Population, mid-year (mItlIons)                       15.1       659      2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     570       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        8 6      313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (6)                                          2.7       2.6       1.9
Labor force(%)                                          2.8       2.6       2.4     GNi                              Gross
per                            primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available. 1994-00)                               capita                       enrollment
Povertv (X of Population below national povetv line)
Urban population 06 of t6tal population)                49        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (Yeats)                        51        47        59
Infant mortalitv (Per 1.,000 live bIrths)               77        92        77
Child malnutriton 06 of children under 5)               22         ..        ..          Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populatlon)    62        55        76
ltiteracv 06 of population aoe 18+)                     24        38        38
Gross primary enrollment 06 of school-soe population)   85        78        96                  Camorn
Mate                                                  ..        a5       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                 .        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            6.7      11.2       9.2       6.9
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                 21.0     17.8       18.7      16.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP            28.2     20.2       24.4      30.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.7     20.7       18.4      20.3
Gross national savinas/GDP                    5.1     16.1       14.6      14.7
Current account balance/GDP                   -5.1    -1.8       -4 1      -1.7     DomestIcins
Interest paymentslGDP                         1.8      1 .         ..               savings                     Investment
Total debt/GOP                               37 3     46.3      102.8     112.1
Total debt servicelexports                   14.6     22.5       45.2      20.5
Present value of debVGDP                        ,        ,       71.9
Present value of debUexports                    .        .      292.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-04
(averao annual growth)
GDP                                  3.4      1.7      4.4        4.2       5.4                  Camoroon
GDP Per capita                       0.6     -1.1      1.6        3.0       2.5-                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        5.9      3.2     12.9       -4.9      -2.2           -
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(16 of GDP)                                                                         20
Agriculture                                  31.3     24.6       43.5      438        T
Industry                                     25.6     29 5       20.2      20.3     10
Manufacturing                               9.6      14 5      10.9      10.9     Is
Services                                     43.1     46 0       362       35.9                 Is 97       S9    De   00
Private consumption                          68 6     66 6       71.6      69.5
General govemment consumption                 9.7     12 8       10 0      10.2                    GDI     --C-GDP
Imports of goods and services                27.4     17.3       24.7      26 8
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth) z
Agriculture                                   2 2      5 8        6.8       6 8    20
Industrv                                      5.9     -0 8        6.3       7.7
Manufacturina                               5.0       1.4       94       11.3
Services                                     -0 5      02        -0.2       2.6         o        '     '             \_
Private consumption                           35       29        -1.2      12.9       r                     9
General oovemment consumption                 6.8      0.7       10.6       7.3    -ID
Gross domestic Investment                    -2.6      0.9        7.0       0 9            -   Exports         lmpots
Imports of goods and services                 3.6      5.1        2.9      15.8
Note 2000 data are preliminary esUmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 54 -



Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflaton
Domestk prks
(% change)                                  .
Consumer prices                             9.5      1.1       2.9      0.8     20
Impicit GDP deflator                       14.2      1.6      -1.2      3.5     10
Goverment fInance
(% of GDP, includes cufent grants)                                                     95    sI    97   98     9
Current revenue                            16.4     14.3      15.7     18.8    -1
Current budget balance                      5.6     -1.8       0.4      4.2              -GP deflto       0CPl
Overall surplus/deficIt                     0.4     -7.6      -3.2      1.4
TRADE
(USS miNions)                              1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports ffob)                       1.506    1.882     1,682    2,124    2.0
Fuel                                      396      823       529      989     2.0
cocoa                                     289      156       157      119
Manufactures                               96      359       399      381     15        *    *
Total Imports (df)                        1.452    1,453     1,483    1,538      oo*1*                   *
Food                                       82      190       169      162
Fuel and eneraY                           187       16        12       24     SW
Capitalgoods                              388      452       407      412        a
Export price Index (1995=100)                81      50        88       126          94   95   ae   By  9a   99    oo
Import price Index (1995=100)                72      51        100      101                 Exports      impots
Termsof trade (1995=100)                    112      99         88      124
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Currant account balance to GDP (%)
Expors of goods and serAces               1.880    2,251     2,241    2,719     0 -
Imports of goods and servIcs              1,829    1,931     2,267    2,376
Resource balance                             51     320        -26      343    . 
Net Income                                 -479     -478      -468     -594    -2
Netcurrenttransfers                          83      -39       117       97*
Current account balance                    -46      -196      -376     -153
FInandng otems (net)                        508     252       380       395
Changes In not reserves                    -162      -55        -4     -242
Memo:
Reserves Induding gold (US$ mlions)           ..      ..        4       212
Conversion rate (DEC, localtUS)           209.2    300.7     588.5    658.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Compoaltlon of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandIng and disbursed      2,513    5,158     9,444    9,929
IBRD                                      152     651       276      218                      A. 218 8:769
IDA                                       146     238       749       769           G. 2,040             c: 235
Total debt service                          280     522       549       561                                 D: 392
IBRD                                       17      91        91        75
IDA                                         2       4        11        12
ComposlIon of net resource flow                                                    F: 847
Offidal grants                             ..
Offidal credltors                         221     461        28        33
Private creditors                         279      -12       -51      -52
Foreign direct Investment                  ..       ..
Portfolio equlty                           ..                 ..       ..                            E: s,828
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                 0       0       136        91     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
DIsbursements                              47      75        67        55     B-IDA    D- Otermu0ltilalarl  F - Private
Principal repayments                        5      44        71        60     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                   43      30         -4       -5
Interest payments                          14      51        32        27
Net transfers                              29      -20      -36       -32
Development Economics                                                                                           1001
- 55 -



Additional Annex 11:
Environmental and Social Management Plan
Executive Summary
CAMEROON: RAILWAY CONCESSION.
1.    History of the project and the Environmental and Social Assessment Process
Preparation of the Cameroon Railway Concessioning Project began in June 1998. The project
was originally given a Category B environmental rating under OD 4.01 of 1991. An
Environmental Assessment was undertaken on this basis, and the EA Report was submitted to the
World Bank and IFC in November 1998. An EA Summary was sent to the Board in January
1999. The project was negotiated in June 1999 and expected to go to the Board in September of
that year. Expected agreements with the sponsors did not materialize and the Board date was
postponed. Subsequently, additional questions were raised about the environmental and social
impact of the project that were not comprehensively covered in the EA.of 1998. The project was
upgraded to a Category A environmental rating in November 2000 to address pertinent
environmental, safety and social issues in a more comprehensive manner and to reduce the
reputational risks for the World Bank. An ISDS has been prepared for a Category A project. IFC
was initially involved in the project, but could not reach agreement on the financial terms and
decided not to support the project in March/April 2001.
The present document is a new Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) based on
OP 4.01 and the 10 Safeguard Policies of the World Bank. This new ESMP replaces the ESMP of
November 1998. This new ESMP addresses issues that have been raised subsequent to the 1998
EA and covers the original environmental, safety and social issues in more depth. The EA report
of 1998 remains as a reference document.
2.    Project Description
The project objective is to provide the necessary support to implement railway activities in
Cameroon aimed at improving the efficiency and sustainability of the transport sector. Other
strong reasons for doing the project are (i) that the project will help remediate the legacy of toxic
waste problems and that measures will be put in place to control and manage ongoing
toxic/hazardous waste streams; (ii) eliminate the transport of bushmeat products on the railway,
which will contribute to a positive impact on biodiversity conservation in central Cameroon; and
(iii) contribute to stricter monitoring of logging operations and transport of tropical hardwood
logs and sawn timber in Cameroon. Verification of the origin of the wood before authorization of
railway transport will discourage fraudulent exploitation practices (illegal logging).
3.    CAMRAIL's Commitment to the Environment
CAMRAIL prepared an Environmental and Safety Management Plan in May 1999, which was
updated on November 28, 2001. CAMRAIL, the Government of-Cameroon and the World Bank
have approved the November 28, 2001 CAMRAIL Environmental and Safety Management Plan.
- 56 -



CAMRAIL is committed to its implementation. CAMRAIL has conducted safety studies and run
equipment checks to ensure safety in crowded urban areas (see below under Safety Aspects). The
concessionaire agreed to comply with all Cameroonian environmental legislation, the World Bank
Safeguard Policies and this ESMP and would work with both the Ministry of Environment and
Forests and with independent NGOs to enforce logging and bushmeat regulations. CAMRAIL
has also agreed to implement the project component to clean-up previous pollution of railway
sites (funding will be through the Government of Cameroon, who is responsible for the historic
pollution) and will ensure that its own operations are conducted in an environmentally sound
manner.
4.   Responsibilities of the National Railway Cell
The National Railway Cell was created on March 30, 1999, through a Decision of the Ministry of
Transport. Among others this Cell is responsible for Railway Security and Environmental
Protection (Article 6.). Article 22. specifies that the Cell will assist the concessionaire in the
execution of resettlement from within the Railway Right-of-Way. The Cell has recruited a
specialist in Railway Security and Environmental Protection. The Cell will recruit a Social
Specialist to be responsible for the social aspects of the Railway Concessioning Project.
5.    Cameroon Environmental Legislation and World Bank Safeguard Policies and
Guidelines
The Cameroonian Government is increasingly concerned about environmental degradation. It
prepared a National Environmental Management Plan (NEMP) in 1996, enacted major laws,
including the Forest Law in 1994 and, in direct application of the NEMP, the Environmental
Framework Law of 1996. Implementation decrees are currently being drafted, including for
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and pollution management, but have not yet been
enacted. There is insufficient governmental capacity to enforce existing legislation, or to
implement the NEMP. Coordination among the various governmental bodies and agencies
involved in environmental protection is weak. The Permanent Secretariat for the Environment
(PSE) has been established in the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MINEF) in late May
1999.
The Safeguard Policies of the World Bank which apply to this project are: Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01), Forestry Policy (OP 4.36) and Natural Habitat Policy (OP 4.04).
Additionally, this ESMP analyzes the potential impact and management of the project with respect
to Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30 and OP/BP 4.12), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), Cultural
Property (OP 4.11) and Pest Management (OP 4.09). Also the Guidelines as described in the
World Bank Pollution Prevention and Abatement Handbook, the World Bank Occupational
Health, the Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines for Rail Transit Systems of IFC and the
General Health and Safety Guidelines of IFC need to be complied with.
6.    Public Consultation and Disclosure
There was a public consultation program completed as part of the 1998 Environmental
-57-



Assessment process by the consultants and this is documented in the Environmental Assessment
Report (see Appendix 1) . The consultants spoke with numerous stakeholders, men as well as
women, who live and work within the RoW of the railway. A rapid survey of the Right-of-Way
has been undertaken and its conclusions are presented in this document.
CAMRAIL has established a Collaboration Policy with the population along the railways. The
purpose is to engage local people in maintenance of the railway, such as grass cutting and other
simple jobs. The local population is also involved in safety monitoring. This mechanism is also
used to inform and consult with the local population on a permanent basis.
Environment and social studies, such as the environmental assessment and the social surveys have
been disclosed in country and at the Info-shop in compliance with World Bank policies. The social
assessment will be prepared during implementation and reviewed, approved of and disclosed
accordingly. The purpose of the social assessment is mainly to determine if any of the people who
live and work within the RoW will need to be resettled.
Quarterly monitoring reports will be presented to the World Bank for review and approval.
CAMRAIL has recruited a staff member who is specialized in environment matters and
communication procedures, for the purpose of successfully implementing public consultation and
disclosure requirements.
7.    Analysis of alternatives
The Alternatives considered were Concessioning or not Concessioning of the railway system.
Concessioning of the railway was identified as the only viable alternative in the Cameroon's
Transport Sector Strategy (1993). As noted earlier, the publicly managed railway operator,
REGIFERCAM, was operating inefficiently and losing both money and market share to the road
sector. In terms of environmental impact, a well-managed railway presents an attractive
altemative to road transport, is safer and is easier to regulate. The two altematives were to leave
the railway publicly managed, which would have meant a continuation of the poor service and
heavy environmental impacts, or to close it down, which would have deprived the populace of an
important mode of transport and left the road sector as the sole means of transport in the country,
which is from an environmental and social point of view less desirable. A well managed railroad is
less polluting, produces less greenhouse gases, is safer and has less environmental and health
impacts than road transport.
8.    Environmental Impacts and Management Plan
The preparation of the Environmental Impacts and Management Plan started with:
*     EA of November 1998 prepared by Buursink Consultants. The EA study identified the
environmental and social impacts, but did not provide a sufficiently detailed Environmental and
Social Management Plan;
*     BURGEAP Environmental Audit, June 1999. This study analyzed the historic pollution
levels, but did not take the study area wide enough;
*     Environmental & Engineering Services Douala, 2000. Was contracted by CAMRAIL and
- 58 -



identified surface water pollution levels by creosote and PAHs. The slum areas Nylon and
Brazzaville are too far to be affected by an eventual groundwater pollution;
*     Rapid Social Survey, August 2001. This rapid social survey identified that no people were
living in the safety zone of 4.18 meters.
*     Ate-Geoclean was contracted by CAMRAIL in June 2001 and carried out a detailed
survey in Douala with regard to identify necessary clean-up operations of with hydrocarbons
polluted soils. This work was carnied out from August 9, 2001 to October 25, 2001.
The following potential environmental, health and safety, and social impacts of the project were
analyzed in these documents:
*     Transport of illegal tropical hardwood logs, and sawn.timber;
*     Transport of illegal bushmeat products;
*     Inadequate environmental, health and safety management systems;
*     Unsafe tracks and other infrastructure;
*     Inadequate liquid and solid waste management;
*     Inadequate storage, handling and transport of fuels and hazardous materials;
*     Serious soil and groundwater contamination from past operations (creosote and PAHs);
*     Lack of a fire prevention and emergency preparedness and response plan;
*     Current residential and commercial users of railroad safety zone and rights-of-way (RoW)
affecting safety;
*     Lack of employee health and safety awareness and training;
*     Lack of employee environmental and environmental hygiene awareness;
*     Potential abandonment of passenger stations having an impact on people's livelihood;
*     New roads with a potential impact on Indigenous People; and
*     Work force downsizing, with consequent social impacts.
The backgrouna material for these impacts is found in the EA of November 1998. The
Enviromnental and Social Management Actions as presented in this report, take precedence over
the actions proposed in the original EA report. The present report is the final and valid
Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP).
8.1   Management of transport of illegal tropical hardwood logs or sawn timber on
CAMRAIL trains
Potential negative impact of CAMRAIL project on logging: In facilitating the development of
the railway transport between Belabo and Douala, the CAMRAIL project would be associated
with, and could be viewed to facilitate, illegal exploitation of natural tropical rainforests in the
Congo Basin. The transport by CAMRAIL represents today 20% of all the wood crossing
Cameroon. If mitigation measures are not put in place and the wood transport capacity of
CAMRAIL is augmented, the project would increase the probability to transport more illegal
tropical hardwood logs. These illegal logs would escape the customs and forestry tax payments.
Without reinforced control the CAMRAIL project would facilitate these fraudulent activities and
compromise the recent progress accomplished by the Cameroonian Government to improve the
good govemance in the forest sector.
-59 -



Potential for positive impact of associating CAMRAIL to fighting illegal logging: The
CAMRAIL project offers the possibility to reinforce the control system of the logging chain in
Cameroon, the Central African Republic and Congo and thus discourage fiscal fraud and illegal
exploitation of natural forests.
The project offers the opportunity to bring the log transport under the aegis of the Secure Forest
Revenue Program in Cameroon and to reinforce the results accomplished by the Ministry of
Forests to improve the good governance of the forest sector. The CAMRAIL project will also
play a role to apply these reforms in the Central African Republic and in Congo (see below for
details) and facilitate the development of a regional capacity in forest surveillance. It is foreseen
that in the coming years the quantity of wood coming from the Central African Republic and
Congo will increase, especially from the Congo.
Integration of CAMRAIL in the Joint MINEF-MINEFI Secure Forest Revenue Enhancement
Program (PSRF) and into the log tracking system for Cameroon: In its Environmental and
Safety Management Plan of May 1999 CAMRAIL engaged itself to respect the existing
Cameroonian laws and rules in the forestry sector. This engagement is the starting point for more
specific actions which are indispensable to reduce the risk of transport of illegal wood:
*     Integration in the PSRF (Joint MINEF-MINEFI Secure Forest Revenue Enhancement
Program);
*     Integration in the log tracking system;
*     Collaboration with the Governments of the Central African Republic and Congo;
*     Selection of the logging companies based on their performance.
The PSRF and CAMRAIL concluded on January 9, 2001, an agreement on a Collaboration
Protocol in which CAMRAIL engages itself:
1.    To transmit each month to the PSRF information with regard to volume of wood
transported by each client, per product and per origin, as well as the business figures of each
client;
2.    Participate in the establishment of a physical wood tracking system and the elaboration of
an implementation manual jointly for the physical control as well as for the control of the
documentation;
3.    Refuse to transport wood (logs and sawn wood) of which the documentation seems
irregular or incomplete (e.g. invalid exploitation titles or if taxes have not been paid, etc.).
Integration in the log tracking system: The study on control technologies executed by PSRF
recommends to put in place the bar-code system to be able to track the logs from the point of
felling in the forest to the entry of logs into the sawmill or the harbor. The bar-codes will be given
by the administration to the forest exploitation companies, who will staple them on each log and
stump at the moment of felling. A log which is marked in this way could be identified at each
moment until its entry into the sawmill. This system ensures the marking of each log and stump,
identifies their origin in space and links them directly to the database in the SIGIF; this system
-60 -



permits to identify without failure illegal logging.
The establishment of the wood tracking system will be done on initiative and under responsibility
of the PSRF (Joint MINEF-MINEFI program). The role of CAMRAIL will be active participation
in the conception and in the establishment of the system at the request of the Government of
Cameroon.
*     Conception: to provide all necessary information or technical contribution which will be
needed, especially to guarantee that the procedures and the material of CAMRAIL and those of
the wood tracking system are compatible.
*     Establishment: by facilitating the work of the PSRF staff and by helping in: (i) integrating
it in the internal CAMRAIL system by making the necessary adjustments in the administrative
system; and (ii) assisting in the implementation of the necessary modifications in the handling of
the logs before loading and after unloading to facilitate the reading of the electronic markers.
Collaboration with the Governments of the Central African Republic and Congo: CAMRAIL
engages itself to establish with the customs, fiscal and forest administrations of the Central
African Republic and Congo the same type of Collaboration Protocol as the one with
PSRF-Cameroon, if these administrations express there willingness to do so.
Selection of the logging companies based on their performance: If CAMRAIL needs to be
selective in its clients, CAMRAIL has already agreed to use as a selection criteria the perfonmance
of its clients in forest management, as indicated by reports of the Cameroonian Government or
independent audit reports: fines with regard to illegal forest exploitation, app.oved forest
management plan, etc.
Evaluation system  to check compliance with the agreed mitigation measures:   The
performance of CAMRAIL in the context of its action plan against illegal logging will be subject
to a specific evaluation. This evaluation will be based on: (a) respect for the forest laws and
regulations in force; and (b) the level of implementation of the Collaboration Protocol with the
PSRF, including the actions elaborated in the present action plan.
A specialized firm will be hired through an international bidding process. A contract will be signed
for a period of 5 years, which would stipulate one audit per year.
8.2   Management of bushmeat transport on CAMRAIL trains
Introduction:  The stretch of the railway Ngaoundere-Yaounde is the only axe of direct
communication between the north and the south of Cameroon. It is the most simple route to
transport bushmeat from the Adamaoua Province, with a low population density and still
considerable wildlife resources, to Yaounde. A report of Cameroon Environmental Watch from
October 2000 describes the organization of this bushmeat trade chain. The poachers establish
temporary hunting camps and transport, often on foot, their booty to the meeting point with the
buyers, who provide them with ammunition. After these transactions the bushmeat is boarded on
the night train during the multiple technical stops, often with complicity of the security guards and
- 61 -



the conductor of the locomotive. The bushmeat is transported in postal packing materials. At the
entry of Yaounde, the illegal disembarkation of the bushmeat occurs at Elig Edzoa, where the
limited speed of the train permits the bushmeat sellers to discharge their booty before the train
enters the railway station where the control is stricter. The prosperity of the selling point Elig
Edzoa made it known as the "world bushmeat market." The sellers and others operating in these
iarkets, often women, are organized in national bushmeat collectors group.
Potential negative impact of CAMRAIL project on bushmeat trade:   In supporting the
development of the railway transport between Ngaound6re and Yaounde, the CAMRAIL project
will be associated, and risks to facilitate, the transport of bushmeat and trophies in Cameroon. An
easy railway connection would encourage the bushmeat traders even more to utilize the railway,
and make their transactions more lucrative, which would mean an intensification of commercial
hunting.
At present 80% of bushmeat consumed at Yaound6 has been transported by train. The impact of
the transport of bushmeat and trophies is clear: extinction of the wildlife resources in the entire
area of influence of the railway, which means an area of 10 million hectares of forests and
savannas, which have at present a low human population density and which would constitute a
representative refuge for wildlife in Central Africa. Various protected areas are threatened by the
bushmeat trade via the railway:
*     Pangar and Djerem Faunal Reserve, which is crossed by the railway and which has already
lost almost all its wildlife, including the completely protected species.
*     Three National Parks (Benoue, Faro and Bouba-Ndjida) which are supported by the
Cameroon Biodiversity Management Project financed by the GEF (Global Environmental Facility
*     Mbam-Djerem National Park, recently created as a compensation for environmental
impacts on forests for the Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project.
In decimating the wildlife resources in the area of influence of the railway, commercial hunting
and the CAMRAIL project, would have a long-term negative impact on:
*     Compromise the subsistence of the rural population, who is traditionally dependent on
subsistence hunting for their food.
*     Deprive Cameroon from its tourism potential and from the associated economic activity
linked to this tourism potential.
Potential for positive impact of associating CAMRAIL in the fight with the illegal bushmeat
trade: The CAMRAIL project offers an unique opportunity to protect the wildlife biodiversity in
Cameroon by breaking the bushmeat and trophies chain which connects the hunting territories in
the Adamaoua Province with the markets in Yaounde. In fact the railway transport is a weak, but
indispensable link in the bushmeat trade and trophies chain. There exist hundreds of poacher
camps in the Adamaoua and thousands of consumption places in Yaounde, but there exist only
one connection line between the two and that is the railway. This particular fact considerably
increases the chance for success of the anti-poaching measures to be put in place by CAMRAIL.
- 62 -



The risk that the bushmeat trade and trophies chain will use the roads instead of the railway is
reduced, because the transport by road is much longer and more expensive, which would diminish
the profitability of the bushmeat trade and would discourage this activity.
The justification to protect the wildlife in the Adamaoua is strong: this is a region where the
wildlife diversity is high, because this zone is the transition between the forest zone and the
savanna. This zone is a privileged ecosystem characterized by a high genetic diversity.
The collaboration with CAMRAIL offers the opportunity to reinforce an effort already initiated
by the Government of Cameroon. The report of Cameroon Environmental Watch from October
2000 indicates that the sales of the bushmeat products disembarked from the train has seen a
considerable reduction- in Yaounde as a consequence of the measures put in place by MINEF
(Ministry of Environment and Forests) in the context of the operation: "blow with the fist".
Measures to control the illegal bushmeat and trophies trade: The association between the
Railway Concessioning Project and poaching has a high reputational risk for CAMRAIL, its
partners and the World Bank. This problem needs to be taken seriously by all involved for their
own interest. The management of CAMRAIL has already decided to take every possible
precaution to avoid these risks.
In CAMRAIL's Environmental and Safety Management Plans of May 1999 and of November
2001, CAMRAIL has engaged itself to respect the laws and rules in force for the protection of
wildlife. This engagement is the starting point for other more specific measures, which are
indispensable for the eradication of the bushmeat and trophies trade via the railway. Every action
undertaken by CAMRAIL, being a private operator, has to be followed up afterwards by
sanctions from the administration. Without these sanctions the efforts of CAMRAIL remain
without effect.
Eradication of transport of wildlife products on trains: To ensure that its activities have no
negative impacts on wildlife, the private operator CAMRAIL has chosen, with beforehand
approval of the Cameroonian authorities, to prohibit the transport of all bushmeat on the trains,
independent of the species, the season, and the authorizations or exemptions given by the
administration. This decision is stricter than the national legislation, which tolerates the
commercialization of bushmeat of certain species during certain seasons and under certain
conditions. CAMRAIL has opted, with a beforehand approval from MINEF, for a more radical
rule, because it is simpler to implement in practice and because it eliminates the risks of going
around the rule as accepted by the national legislation.
The awareness campaign executed in December 2000 and January 2001 will become a permanent
action. In addition, the action should be accompanied by: (a) strengthening of the control
function; and (b) concrete actions to stimulate the development of activities which generate
alternative income for the people involved in the bushmeat trade. The following actions have
already been taken since January 2001: (a) strengthening of the control at the time of boarding the
trains; (b) information campaigns focused on the travelers; and (c) signing of the Convention with
MINEF on July 13, 2001.
-63 -



The following Action Plan has been adopted to guarantee the total eradication of bushmeat
transport on the railway:
*     Traveler's Code of Conduct and Internal Regulations;
*     Collaboration agreement between CAMRAIL and MINEF;
*     Collaboration with a Technical Assistance NGO;
*     Collaboration between CAMRAIL and the other concerned administrations.
Colaboration agreement between CAMIAIL and MINEF: CAMRAIL and MINEF signed on
July 13, 2001, a Collaboration Agreement with the objective to eradicate the transport of wildlife
products on the railway. This Collaboration Agreement is put together jointly by CAMRAIL and
MINEF. In the context of this convention CAMRAIL and MINEF will solicit the services of a
Technical Assistance NGO to achieve the required results. The main result oriented obligations in
this Convention are:
*     eradication of the transport of all wildlife products on the railway through a strict
enforcement of the Traveler's Code of Conduct and the Internal Regulations and through the
strengthening of the control and the development of accompanying measures;
*     direct handling of illegal practices, including the application of sanctions against
passengers, CAMRAIL employees and state employees in case they are caught red handed.
8.3   Use of Azobe for railway sleepers by CAMRAIL
Azobe (Lophira alata) is a tree of up to 45 meter high and a diameter of up to 120 cm, which is
in Europe and other parts of the world used for railway sleepers and many other construction
uses, because of its good rot resistant qualities. This tropical tree grows in open spaces,
regenerates fast and is as such not a key species of the primary moist tropical rain forest (it is a
secondary forest species). This tree grows in the coastal zones of Cameroon and other countries
in West Africa. CAMRAIL commits itself to use Azobe logs or other wood species, such as
Okan, coming from legal forestry concessions and that CAMRAIL will respect the minimum
diameters. CAMRAIL is also considering the use of eco-certified timber for rehabilitation of the
railway system. Such an approach is an innovation in Cameroon. Under these commitments the
use of Azobe logs for railway sleepers does not contribute to deforestation or contribute to the
increase of poaching of wildlife in Cameroon. For these reasons the use of Azobe for railway
sleepers by CAMRAIL is not considered to be major environmental impact and not in violation of
World Bank policies. In the short-term, CAMRAIL will continue to use existing stocks of
hardwood sleepers, but will phase in the use of pre-stressed concrete sleepers which have a much
longer service life.
8.4   Transport of hazardous material: petroleum products (hydrocarbons)
CAMRAIL plans the following measures to ensure safe transport of hazardous materials,
particularly petroleum products (see also 8.5). The costs of this plan are bome entirely by
CAMRAIL:
- 64 -



*     Petroleum products will be transported in special, dedicated trains;
*     Every petroleum tanker train, will have joint railway police/CAMRAIL security protection
throughout;
*     Trains will be allowed to stand at arrival stations for only limited periods;
*     Immediate off-loading services at SCDP facilities will be available around the clock;
*     Tanker trains will be guarded during handling operations;
*     Train handling points will have adequate lighting;
*     CAMRAIL will undertake further studies on ways to assure the safety of groups living and
working close to on and off-loading points.
CAMRAIL will be responsible for emergency measures and clean-up after an accident.
These actions would considerably reduce the risk that an accident what happened several years
ago, in which two hundred people died, would happen again.
8.5   Fire and Emergency Response Plan
CAMRAIL will provide extensive fire prevention and control and emergency response systems
for the railway network. Each fixed installation vulnerable to fire and/or explosion will be
provided with an artificial water reservoir for fire fighting purposes. In addition, fire extinguishers
will be installed in buildings, in locomotives, in passenger cars, in freight cars, and in generator
cars. Alarm systems will be provided at strategic locations, such as offices, workshops,
storehouses and depots in conjunction with fire emergency guidelines. Security posts will be
provided with communication links to alarms. In every region, or operations co-ordination office,
a rolling fire-fighting /emergency response equipment unit will be established with the necessary
safety devices, tools and communications gear to handle petroleum spills and potential fires and
leaks from freight wagons during transportation or derailment. A program will be established to
train fire-fighting and emergency response teams at each of the sites. CAMRAIL is developing an
Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan for all of its operations. CAMRAIL will implement
this plan and will be responsible for clean-up operations in case of an accident with hazardous
materials or in case of a fire.
CAMRAIL has adopted a collaboration policy with the population along the entire railway. Local
people daily survey the rail system. Abnormalities are reported to the nearest railway station. This
system will reduce the risks of accidents and discover rapidly sabotage actions.
8.6   Occupational Health and Safety
CAMRAIL's occupational health and safety system is conform the Cameroonian legislation in
force. The costs of the occupational health and safety measures are entirely borne by CAMRAIL.
Employees have been provided with adequate personal protective equipment appropriate to their
working conditions and have been trained in the proper use of the equipment. Employees have
been trained in environmental hygiene. Notices have been posted in workshops, garages and
offices describing procedures for preventing work-related accidents, and for responding to
emergencies. Workplace and employee housing sanitary conditions and facilities have been
- 65 -



improved and rehabilitated, including rehabilitation of toilets, water systems, and electricity and
lighting. CAMRAIL will, with financing provided by the Railway Concessioning Project, clean-up
with PAHs polluted soils, which will reduce health risks for CAMRAIL's work force.
8.7    Pesticide use for maintenance of Right-of-Way
CAMRAIL has adopted a policy to work closely together with the local population along the
entire railway. The local population benefits substantially and this implementation of this policy
has created considerable goodwill for CAMRAIL. Pesticides will not be used to maintain the
right-of-way. Local paid labor is being used to maintain the right-of-way.
8.8   Clean-up operations of polluted sites undertaken and planned by CAMRAIL
Historic pollution and planned clean-up actions: Previous railway operations generated liquid
and solid wastes which have polluted several railway sites: Douala, Yaounde, Belabo and
Ngaoundere. These pollutants include used engine oils and filters, creosote treatment waste,
maintenance shop and cleaning wastes (paints, solvents, acids, detergent solutions, etc.), rolling
stock washing station wash waters and sanitary effluents and solid wastes.  The Railway
Concessioning Project will fund the clean up of these sites based on a remediation plan to be
designed by experienced consultants in this field.
Improved environmental and social management procedures undertaken by CAMRAIL since
April 1999: CAMRAIL has undertaken considerable actions to improve its environmental
management: (i) establishment of a new creosote plant; (ii) rehabilitation of the fuel stations; (iii)
rehabilitation of the wastewater treatment plant and oil/water separator at the Douala workshops;
(iv) construction of a wastewater treatment system and oil/water separator in Ngaoundere and
Belabo; (v) construction and management of latrine and water supply systems in the camps and
stations along the entire railway; (vi) training of employees in environmental hygiene, management
and safety and HIV/AIDS awareness; (vii) CAMRAIL is carrying out a policy of collaboration
with the local people along the entire railway, which provides local people with job opportunities
such as grass cutting, security surveillance; (viii) identification of all people who occupy the
right-of-way; (ix) CAMRAIL has considerably improved working conditions for its employees;
(x) contribution of CAMRAIL in the struggle against poaching and transport of bushmeat on the
railway; (xi) contribution of CAMRAIL to the reduction of illegal tropical hardwood transport;
(xii) CAMRAIL has contracted TOTAL to supply all fuel and lubricants for its operations,
including the treatment and recycling of waste oils and grease, which is being used as fuel in
cernent kilns; (xiii) CAMRAIL selectively collects solid wastes in its workshop in Douala; and
(xiv) solid wastes collected from trains is disposed in compliance with Camerooman requirements.
8.9   Erosion Control
During the repair of track and infrastructure to be undertaken during the 5-year rehabilitation
program, CAMRAIL has agreed to implement mitigation measures with regard to erosion control
during construction, rehabilitation of areas used for ballast quarrying, and proper disposal and/or
-66-



reuse of recovered ballast, rails and sleepers.
8.10 Cumulative Effects
The Government of Cameroon and CAMRAIL have already put adequate controls in place to
control the transport of bushmeat on the trains and to control the transport of illegal tropical
hardwood. A considerable reduction of the transport of bushmeat on the trains has been observed.
A considerable reduction of the transport of bushmeat on the trains has been observed. Also the
legality of tropical hardwood to be transported on the trains is strictly controlled. The CAMRAIL
project has already at present a strong positive impact on biodiversity conservation in Cameroon.
Cumulative impacts will be limnited.
9.    Social Impacts and Management Plan
9.1   Safety Aspects
As part of project preparation CAMRAIL has analyzed the safety record of the railway. The
following issues have been identified to be addressed within the project; (i) dilapidated equipment
and rail infrastructure which may lead to derailments and other accidents and (ii) unsafe informal
and informal railway crossings. These problems will be addressed by the following actions;
rehabilitation of rail equipment and infrastructure, installation of gates and signals at crossings,
pedestrian overpasses and information campaigns on rail safety.
9.2   Potential Resettlement
It is not anticipated that project activities will lead to land acquisition or resettlement. The
government has confirmed that no evictions of people living in the Right-of-Way will take place.
A social survey identified 1,200 inhabited structures within 15 meters on each side of the track
(Right-of-Way is 35 meters on each side of the track). Although this is illegal occupation on
public domain according to Cameroonian law, it is not anticipated that people will need to be
resettled for that reason. Furthermore, the project does not envisage expansion or changes of the
track which would result in land acquisition. However, the results of the social impact assessment
(which will be caried out during project implementation), may show that there are cases where
people are living so close to the railway that they would need to be resettled for their own safety.
In any case where resettlement may be a solution, no matter the reasons, the resettlement
framework which has been prepared by the government based on World Bank policy, OD 4.30
and the revised version OP/BP 4.12, will be applicable. The resettlement plan will in such cases be
revised and approved of by the World Bank.
9.3   HIV/AIDS issues
All personnel have been informed about HIV/AIDS in several campaigns and all personnel have
been tested for HIV. A special fund has been set aside for paying of treatment of personnel who
are ill with SIDA.
9.4   Indigenous Peoples
-67 -



There are no communities of indigenous people in the area along the railway. It is therefore not
anticipated that indigenous people will be affected by project activities. In the future after the
concession which is of 20 years, the service of the railway system may become substituted in parts
by roads, particularly in rural areas. The social impact assessment will also pay attention to this
issue and identify potential rural areas serviced by the railway and which are occupied by
indigenous people (if any).
9.5   Cultural Property
It is not expected to find any cultural property of particular cultural or historic value (such as for
example buildings) in the project area. As no expansion of the railway is being planned, there will
be no land acquisition or acquisition of property. In any event, the social impact assessment will
confirm that no cultural property will be affected.
10.   CAMRAIL and Government of Cameroon implementation capacity
CAMRAIL' Safety and Environment Division: CAMRAIL has created two and a half years ago
a Safety and Environment Division to monitor day-to-day safety operations, plan the clean-up
operations and to improve its environmental and social management. The four functions of this
division are: (i) general security on CAMRAIL premises and on the trains; (ii) occupational health
issues; (iii) environmental management; and (iv) relations with individuals and subcontractors.
These must respect CAMRAIL regulations.
Environmental and Social Management Unit in the National Railway Cell: An Environmental
and Social Management Unit within the National Railway Cell has been created. At present one
environmental and railway safety specialist has been recruited. The social aspects will be handled
by a sociologist/anthropologist still to be hired. The environmental and social specialists within the
cell have the following main responsibility: monitoring of the implementation of CAMRAIL's
Environmental and Safety Management Plan, compliance with Cameroonian legislation and
compliance with the present ESMP. The monitoring of the execution of CAMRAIL's
Environmental and Safety Management Plan is being performed at present on a permanent basis.
11.   Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan
CAMRAIL's Safety and Environmental/Social Division is and will be responsible for the
monitoring of the proper implementation of the actions described in CAMRAIL's Environmental
and Safety Management Plan, this ESMP and will ensure compliance with World Bank Safeguard
Policies.
The environmental and social staff in the National Railway Cell will be responsible to monitor
compliance of CAMRAIL's operations with the Cameroonian legislation, CAMRAIL's
Environmental and Safety Management Plan and with this ESMP.
-68-



The Technical Assistance NGO (for monitoring of the bushmeat transport), which has been
identified, will collaborate with CAMRAIL, MINEF, gendarmes, judges; training of the staff of
CAMRAIL and MINEF in the surveillance; organization of the controls and mixed patrols of
CAMRAIL-MINEF; monitoring of the judiciary procedures until the sanctions are applied;
scientific monitoring and communication.
The Independent Evaluator to be recruited (negotiations are underway) will be responsible for the
monitoring of the implementation of the Collaboration Agreement protocol between
CAMRAIL-MINEF through a performance evaluation.
12.   ESMP implementation responsibilities and budget
CAMRAIL will be responsible for the implementation, and financing of the actions under their
responsibility as described in CAMRAIL's Environmental and Safety Management Plan of
November 2001 and this ESMP. CAMRAIL will also be responsible for the execution of actions,
as mentioned in this ESMP, which are financed by the Railway Concessioning Project. These
actions, responsibility of execution and financial responsibility are presented in the following table.
The Railway Concessioning Project will finance the operational costs of the Environmental and
Social Unit within the National Railway Cell, as presented in the table below. Also the Social
Assessment will be financed by the project.
The Government of Cameroon will commit itself, in case that people need to be resettled from the
Railway Right-of-Way, to resettle people in compliance with the World Bank Resettlement Policy
(OD 4.30 and revised version OP/BP 4.12). The Initial Resettlement Commitment from the
Government of Cameroon will be US$ 500,000. In case this will not be sufficient the Government
of Cameroon will commit itself to finance the entire resettlement operation.
-69-



Railway Concessioning Project and CAMRAIL's responsibilities with regard to
Environmental, Safety and Social Actions
Costs in US$ for the Program 2002/2003 until 2006/2007
(conversion factor US$ 1 = FCFA 730)
Sector         Description      CAMRAIL        IDA       Total Costs
financing   financing
Wildlife     Recruitment of 20     103,000    308,000      411,000
protection   eco-guards for 5 years
Put in place a dog unit  34,000    103,000      137,000
Technical Assistance  193,000     578,000      771,000
NGO
__________     Yearly Audit       51,000      154,000     205,000
Tropical   Audit of CAMRAIL's      51,000     154,000      205,000
Hardwood         obligations
protection            __.
Clean-up   Maintenance workshops
operations at      (PAHs)
4 places
Douala,   Creosote treatment plant
Yaounde,
Ngaoundere   Mechanical workshop
Belabo
Total costs       257,000     771,000      1,028,000
Safety      Level passages (6)    94,000      283,000     377,000
Walk bridges (4)     48,000      144,000      192,000
Inhabitants      Yearly audit       34,000      103,000      137,000
in the
railway
right-of-way
Total           865,000    2,598,000    3,463,000
- 70 -



Railway Concessioning Project and CAMRAIL's responsibilities with regard to
Environmental, Safety and Social Actions
Costs in millions FCFA for the Program 2002/2003 until 2006/2007
Sector         Description      CAMRAIL        IDA      Total Costs
financing  financing
Wildlife     Recruitment of 20     75,00      225,00       300,00
protection  eco-guards for 5 years
Put in place a dog unit  25,00     75,00       100,00
Technical Assistance   140,70     421,80       562,50
NGO
Yearly Audit        37,50      112,50       150,00
Tropical   Audit of CAMRAIL's      37,50      112,50       150,00
Hardwood         obligations
protection                                             .
Clean-up   Maintenance workshops
operations at      (PAHs)
4 places
Douala,   Creosote treatment plant
Yaounde,
Ngaoundere   Mechanical workshop
Belabo
Total costs        187,50     562,50       750,00
Safety      Level passages (6)    68,75      206,25       275,00
Walk bridges (4)      35,00      105,00       140,00
Inhabitants      Yearly audit       25,00       75,00       100,00
in the
railway
right-of-way
Total            631,95     1 895,55    2 527,50
- 71 -



Costs born entirely by the Government of Cameroon
Railway Concessioning Project  Unitary cost   Duration     Costs In US$
Operational costs of        50,000          5           250,000
Environmental and Social Unit
within National Railway Cell
Social Assessment                          1            70,000
Government of Cameroon
Initial Resettlement Costs                                 500,000
commitment by Govemment of
Cameroon
- 72 -



MAP SECTION






MALI  *1  1 0            2L0            12 -                                          16
NIGER    .             )    Wn p  ddInn b- ,                       ,
IM,, Fh-d-
1' .   '-      I^X  CHAD  tSUDAN  =                         1  \:i  .   .  -
qENIN                                 o     I                       -
*  ' NIGERIA                 *                                           K o0u60 M.r,
12-  0    4   80                     120 I60K,InoeIo1
.4,t, !.IIA  .,.,  , 0 t,, i,- ,-| O  20  lO  6t0 a o  I20M,Is  C H  A   D
EXTREME
(Mr    NORD
C'  |  ':*t~rJ  a \ '-'N:  J/:   t   .  >  = D r g        wY o
-1-                                                            G . ),deCi,                  10
CAMEROON
RAILWAY CONCESSIONING PROJECT
Cl=lD RAILROADS
o   SELECTED TOWNS
*   DEPARTMENT CAPITALS           , J           i a
@   PROVINCE CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL
UNPAVED ROADS             in
PAVED ROADS
--~-------  RIVERS
- - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
NI|G E RIA           j      ,      ,!\ B-cy yAAt U 
o'S  J  92  li)J~Noojb I  J ~    orb                   Me__  __oo8oA
iQNgutlUE  T  2        f.     . Lobo )NCE
Go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tb
r Gu Nlembo   .                                                               CENTRAL
_l  -  1  | J  ~  -# F  P9)0s; JE(ST f S!:<X                     Cr 
SL:~~~~~U p                                                     >q FIA






IMAGING
Report No          24355  CM
Type:     PAD



