Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3695 CM
Project Agreement
(Railway Concession Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CAMRAIL
Dated July 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3695 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CAMRAIL (CAMRAIL).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Page  2
Republic of Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,200,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that CAMRAIL agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CAMRAIL, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to CAMRAIL on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS CAMRAIL, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CAMRAIL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
commercial, financial, engineering and railway practices, and with due regard to environmental 
and social factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and CAMRAIL shall otherwise agree, CAMRAIL shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a)  CAMRAIL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
Page  3
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CAMRAIL shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and CAMRAIL, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
CAMRAIL on said plan.
Section 2.04. CAMRAIL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the Concession Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
CAMRAIL shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Concession Agreement 
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CAMRAIL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Concession 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
CAMRAIL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CAMRAIL of its obligations under this 
Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Concession Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CAMRAIL
Section 3.01. CAMRAIL, within the framework of the Concession Agreement, shall 
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, 
commercial, financial, environmental, safety and engineering practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. CAMRAIL shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, environmental 
and safety  practices.
Section 3.03.  CAMRAIL shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks and in such 
Page  4
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CAMRAIL shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect: 
(i)
its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project and of 
the concession under the 
Concession Agreement; and
(ii)
to register separately its passenger activities on a commercial basis and 
those 
under NCO contracts.
(b)
CAMRAIL shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) above for such year 
as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements and a report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, CAMRAIL shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for 
the strengthening of its financial system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order 
to enable CAMRAIL, not later than March 31, 2004, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association.  Each such 
report shall:
(i)
(A) set forth actual sources and application of funds for the Project both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and application of funds for the Project for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and (B) show separately 
Page  5
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explain 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
CAMRAIL shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project 
management report for such period.
Section 4.03. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CAMRAIL shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of CAMRAIL 
shows that the estimated net revenues of CAMRAIL for each fiscal year during the term of the 
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times until the Closing Date  and at least 1.1 times 
thereafter the estimated debt service requirements of CAMRAIL in such year on all debt of 
CAMRAIL including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(
i
)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CAMRAIL 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(
i
i
)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract 
or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for 
the modification of its terms of payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to 
operations including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision 
for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt.
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference 
Page  6
(iv)
between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than 
those related to operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term “debt service requirements" means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payment, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by 
CAMRAIL not earlier than twelve months prior to the 
incurrence of the debt in question, which both the 
Association and CAMRAIL accept as reasonable and as to 
which the Association has notified CAMRAIL of its 
acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of CAMRAIL.
(
v
i
i
)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt 
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on 
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CAMRAIL shall not 
incur any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 
2 until the Closing Date and 3.3 thereafter.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
(
i
)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CAMRAIL 
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(
i
i
)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of 
Page  7
such contract, agreement or instrument; and
(B)      under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired 
paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of CAMRAIL 
not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
(
i
v
)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt 
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on 
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which 
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of 
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the 
Association.
Section 4.05. (a)
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CAMRAIL shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.1.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, CAMRAIL shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by CAMRAIL and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that CAMRAIL would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for CAMRAIL's fiscal years covered by such review, CAMRAIL shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure 
or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
(
i
)
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary course of business be converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts receivable, marketable 
securities and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to 
operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(
i
i
)
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including 
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
Page  8
(iii)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if 
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(
i
v
)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CAMRAIL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CAMRAIL of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  9
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
For CAMRAIL:
BP 766
Douala – Gare de Bessengue
Republic of Cameroon 
Facsimile:
(237) 340 82 52
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CAMRAIL may be taken or 
executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the Director General shall 
designate in writing, and CAMRAIL shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Page  10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
CAMRAIL
By /s/  Raymond Epote
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines).
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
Page  11
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by 
domestic contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part B (a) of the Project estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,380,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods such as cables, manual tools and batteries, estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first five contracts for goods and works, respectively , and each 
contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services required for the Project, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for highly specialized engineering under Part A (a) of the Project which are 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  13
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first five contracts and each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first five contracts and each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
General
(a)
Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of Section 2.01 (a) of the 
Project Agreement, CAMRAIL shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Concession 
Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.  CAMRAIL shall not amend, abrogate or 
waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual without the Association’s prior 
approval.
(b)
Not later than October 31 of each year, CAMRAIL shall furnish an update of its 
priority investment program included in the Concession Agreement, and related financing plan, 
Page  14
to the Association for its review and approval.
2.
Monitoring and Reporting
(a)
CAMRAIL shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators, 
satisfactory to the Association, set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Association, by November 30 of each year, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
(b)
Beginning December 31, 2002, CAMRAIL shall, on a quarterly and annual 
basis, furnish to the Association, Project implementation reports, all of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.  Said quarterly reports shall be 
furnished not later than one month following the preceding quarterly period, and said annual 
reports not later than three months after the end of the preceding year.
(c)
Beginning October 31, 2002, and thereafter by the twentieth day of each month, 
CAMRAIL shall furnish to the Association a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested, including monthly statistics of the preceding month 
on traffic, motive power and rolling stock performance, infrastructure management, human 
resources and financial performance.
3.
Midterm Review
(a)
CAMRAIL shall participate: (i) jointly with the Borrower, in the preparation of 
the report mentioned in Section 3.07 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) jointly 
with the Borrower and the Association, not later than July 31, 2005, in the midterm review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project referred to in said Section 3.07 (a); and  
(b)
CAMRAIL shall thereafter implement the plan of action referred to in Section 
Page  15
3.07 (a) (iv) of the Development Credit Agreement, as determined in agreement among the 
Borrower, CAMRAIL and the Association.
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators
(a)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the indicators for monitoring 
and evaluating the carrying out of the Project, referred to in Section 2 (a) (i) of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement are the following:
1.
Debt service coverage ratio higher than 1.4.
2.
Long-term debt to equity ratio less than 2.0. 
3.
Current ratio higher than 1.1.
(all above as defined in Sections 4.03, 4.04 and 4.05 of the Project Agreement).
By Midterm
Review
By June 30, 2008
4.  Wagon turnaround 
number of days
Less than or equal to 
7.3 days
Less than or equal to 7 days
5.  Staff productivity: traffic 
unit/staff
Less than or equal 
to 565,000
Less than or equal to 645,000
6.  Ratio of staff costs to 
traffic revenues
Less than or equal to 
30%
Less than or equal to 28%
7.  Cumulative length of slow 
down in effect for more than 
90 days
Less than or equal to 
90km
Less than or equal to 52km
8. Number of working 
locomotives
Equal to or more than 
46, out of a total of 62
Equal to or more than 45, out of 
a total of 62
9.  Reliability of locomotives 
and number of breakdowns 
per 100,000 km:
      CC
      BB 1100
      BB 1200
Less than or equal to 6
Less than or equal to 15
Less than or equal to 15
Less than or equal to 5
Less than or equal to 13
Less than or equal to 10
10.  Availability of CC 
locomotives
83%
85%
11.  Km per year and per 
available CC locomotive
At least 96,000 km
At least 110,000 km
(b)
The Project performance will also be monitored through the monthly statistics as 
Page  16
indicated in Section 2 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement and in the Project 
Implementation Manual. 
