                                Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001228



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-3695)



                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.20 MILLION


                     US$21.39 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                  TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                   FOR A

                    RAILWAY CONCESSION PROJECT



                              December 23, 2009




Transport Unit
Country Department AFCC1
Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2009)

                    Currency Unit = SDR
                     1.00 = US$ 1.56606
                   US$ 1.00 = CFAF 460.0

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 to December 31


           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Developpement (French Agency for
          Development)
AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
ARV       Anti Retro-Virals
CAMRAIL   Cameroonian Railway Company
CAR       Central African Republic
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
c.i.f.    Cost, insurance and freight
CMC       Concession Monitoring Committee
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
EIB       European Investment Bank
ESMP      Environmental and Social Management Plan
EU        European Union
FERP      Forestry Enhancement Revenue Program
FM        Financial Management
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOC       Government of Cameroon
HIPC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV       Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
km        Kilometers
MINEFI    Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINT      Ministry of Transport
MTR       Mid Term Review
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NCO       Non-Commercial Obligation
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAR       Procurement Assessment Review
PDO                Project Development Objectives
PIC                Complementary Investment Program
PIP                Priority Investment Program
PMU                Project Management Unit
PPP                Public Private Partnership
PROPARCO           Société de Promotion et de Participation pour la Coopération
                   Economique (French Company for Promotion and Participation for
                   Economic Cooperation)
QCBS               Quality and Cost Based Selection
REGIFERCAM         Regie nationale des chemins de fer du Cameroun (Cameroonian
                   National Railway Company)
RESMP              Railway Environmental and Safety Management Plan
RMU                Railway Management Unit
SA                 Special Account
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SOE                Statement of Expenditures
SSA                Sub-Saharan Africa
TICU               Transport Inter-ministerial Coordination Unit
TSP                Transport Sector Program
TSPMU              Transport Sector Program Management Unit
TSS                Transport Sector Strategy
UPSI               Unité de Programmation et du Suivi des Investissements
                   (Investment Planning and Evaluation Unit)
WCS                World Conservation Society



             Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
           Country Director:           Mary A. Barton-Dock
              Sector Director:         Inger Andersen
             Sector Manager:           C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
        Project Team Leader:           Jean François Marteau
           ICR Team Leader:            Peter Ngwa Taniform
        ICR Primary Author:            Peter Ngwa Taniform
                                                       CAMEROON
                                   RAILWAY CONCESSION PROJECT
Data Sheet ............................................................................................................................ i
   A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
   B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
   C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
   E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs..................................................................... v
   H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ vi
   I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes................................................... 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.......................................................... 23
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 30
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ....................................................................... 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 42
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents........................................................................... 51
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 52
A. Basic Information
                                                                          RAILWAY
Country:                Cameroon                Project Name:             CONCESSION
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P054786                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36950,IDA-3695A
ICR Date:               12/29/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CAMEROON
Original Total
                        XDR 17.2M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 17.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 17.2M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 CAMRAIL
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Investment Bank (EIB)
 AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
 PROPARCO

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/01/1998     Effectiveness:                              01/23/2003
Appraisal:            01/30/1999     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             07/18/2002     Mid-term Review:           01/31/2006       07/31/2005
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2008       06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                  5                   5
Railways                                                              95                  95


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                  48
Other environment and natural resources management                    17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     17                  2
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Mary A. Barton-Dock                  Ali Mahmoud Khadr
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham               Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project Team Leader:       Jean-Francois Marteau                Abdelghani Inal
ICR Team Leader:           Peter Ngwa Taniform
ICR Primary Author:        Peter Ngwa Taniform


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are to: (i) improve the efficiency and sustainability of the
transport sector through private operation of the railway sector; and (ii) eliminate the
burden on public finance for provision of railway services. These objectives support the
GOC's Transport Sector Strategy and Policy, which calls for, among others, State
divestiture of transport operations in favor of greater private sector operation. The major


                                                ii
indicators include: (i) increase in rail freight traffic to surpass previous levels; (ii)
increase in productivity; (iii) elimination of GOC transfers to the rail sector, except
compensation for non commercial obligations (NCO), and transformation of net outflows
to net inflows for the sector; and (iv) profitability of the concession company.

  With regards to environmental, social and safety aspects, the major performance
indicators are: (i) control of logging and bush meat transport, (ii) cleaning worksites and
prevention from further pollution, and (iii) improve transport and work safety.

  Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
  Not Applicable

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                                   Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                      approval        Target        Completion or
                                                    documents)        Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in rail traffic to surpass previous level
Value                                           1,047 million
                  880 million                                                    978 million
quantitative or                                 tons/kilometer
                  tons/kilometer                                                 ton/kilometer
Qualitative)                                    (annualized)
Date achieved     12/31/1999                    06/30/2009                       12/31/2008
Comments          Percentage of achievement: 93 percent
(incl. %          Large percentage of achievement despite the economic downturn in 2008 and
achievement)      much higher than expected infrastructure constraints
Indicator 2 :     Increase in productivity
                                                Staff productivity:
Value             Staff productivity in
                                                 in traffic
quantitative or   traffic units/staff:                                           521,422
                                                units/staff:
Qualitative)      459,957
                                                565,000
Date achieved     12/31/1999                    12/31/2008                       12/31/2008
                  92 % Achievement
Comments          The productivity ratio did not reach the target value in the end due to the
(incl. %          economic downturn, but CAMRAIL's structure implies an increase in
achievement)      productivity given the secure investment prospects in track and rolling stock
                  starting in 2009
                  Elimination of government transfers to the rail sector, except for compensation
Indicator 3 :
                  for non commercial obligations
                                                                                 Net annual transfer
                                                Net transfers to
Value             Net transfer from GOC to                                       from concessionaire
                                                Government from
quantitative or   state owned railway:                                           to GOC:
                                                Concessionaire are
Qualitative)      6 billion FCFA                                                 7.3billion FCFA
                                                positive
Date achieved 09/30/1998                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2008


                                                 iii
                The target of positive flows to GOC from the concessionaire was consistently
Comments        met. Annual transfers totaled 6 to 8 billion FCFA, in two categories:
(incl. %        - Concession fees averaging 6 billion FCFA annually.
achievement)    - Taxes averaging 1.5 billion FCFA annually.
                 100%
Indicator 4 : Profitability of the concession company
                                                              -
                                                              Current/liquidi
                                                              ty ratio = 1.10
                                           Current/liquidity                  - Current/liquidity
                Current/liquidity ratio =                     - LT
                                           ratio => 1.10                      ratio = 1.10
                0.55                                          debt/equity
                                           LT debt/equity                     - LT debt/equity
                LT debt/equity ratio =                        ratio = 1.3
Value                                      ratio =< 2.00                      ratio = 1.2
                2.53                                          - Debt
quantitative or                            Debt coverage                      - Debt coverage
                Debt coverage ratio =                         coverage ratio
Qualitative)                               ratio => 1.40                      ratio = 2.1
                1.96                                          = 1.8
                                           Staff/business                     - Staff/business
                Staff/business turnover                       -
                                           turnover ratio =<                  turnover ratio =
                ratio = 36.0%                                 Staff/business
                                           28.0%                              24percent
                                                              turnover ratio
                                                              = 25.20%

Date achieved 12/31/1999                   12/31/2008         12/31/2008      06/30/2009
              All indicators were met
              - Current/liquidity ratio : 100 percent - LT debt/equity ratio > 100 percent
Comments
              - Debt coverage ratio > 100percent
(incl. %
              - Staff ratio: >100percent
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                (a) Wagon turnaround number of days
Indicator 1 :
                (b) Cumulative length of slow down in effect for more than 90 days
Value           (a) 8.3 days
                                          (a) <= 7.0 days                   (a) 4.9 days
(quantitative   (b) 40.4 km
                                          (b) <= 6.0 km                     (b) 1.1 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   12/31/2008                      06/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        All targets were largely exceeded.
achievement)
                Reliability of locomotives (number of breakdowns per 100,000 km) for:
                (a) CC2200
Indicator 2 : (b) CC2600
                (c) BB1100
                (d) BB1200
Value           (a) 8.8                    (a) <= 5.0                      (a) 5


                                                iv
(quantitative   (b) 5.7                     (b) <= 5.0                        (b) 5
or Qualitative) (c) 16.6                    (c) <= 13.0                       (c) 13
                (d) 43.5                    (d) <= 40.0                       (d) 10

Date achieved 12/31/2000                     12/31/2008                       06/30/2009
Comments
                The condition of the rolling stock had been optimistically assessed at project
(incl. %
                start. These indicators were too detailed and therefore not necessarily relevant
achievement)
                Availability of CC locomotives for:
Indicator 3 : (a) CC2200
                (b) CC2600
                                            (a) >= 85.0%
Value
                (a) 73.2%                   (b) >= 80.0%                      (a) 80.0%
(quantitative
                (b) No data                                                   (b) 70.1%
or Qualitative)
                                            110,000
Date achieved 12/31/2000                     12/31/2008                       06/30/2009
                Percentage of achievement:
                (a) 98 percent
Comments
                (b) 88 percent
(incl. %
                Redundant indicator with IO 2. Values higher than at project start. To ensure
achievement)
                that this value increase in coming years, the Concessionaire anticipated the
                renewal of the fleet beginning in 2009.
                Mileage (in Km) per year and per available locomotive. Overall, the indicators
Indicator 4 : show that the fleet has been able to cater for the demand in consistency with the
                traffic targets
Value
(quantitative   76,414 km                   => 90,000 km                      97,438 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                     12/31/2008                       06/30/2009
                Percentage of achievement: 108%.
Comments
                This indicator is the most significant in determining the efficiency of rolling
(incl. %
                stock operations compared to indicators 2 and 3 and was met. (25% increase
achievement)
                compared to the base value).


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                           IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2002           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     01/09/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/05/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     1.75
  4     11/05/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     6.76
  5     11/28/2003           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     6.96
  6     06/24/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   14.25
  7     06/24/2004           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                   14.25


                                                 v
  8    12/14/2004      Unsatisfactory              Satisfactory   18.20
                         Moderately
  9    06/20/2005                                  Satisfactory   18.25
                       Unsatisfactory
 10    12/08/2005   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory   19.63
 11    05/16/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   20.07
 12    12/05/2006       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   20.18
 13    06/05/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   20.43
 14    11/30/2007       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   20.76
 15    05/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Satisfactory   21.60
 16    12/08/2008    Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory   22.79
 17    05/21/2009       Satisfactory               Satisfactory   23.54


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal

1.      Project appraisal ran from early 1999 to early 2002 after a preparation period that
started in 1995 at the adoption of the Transport Sector Strategy.1 Throughout the
preparation phase of the project, Cameroon's economy remained the largest in the CFA
franc zone, notwithstanding the economy's steady decline that had been experienced
from the mid-1980s. The appraised project was fully in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) progress report prepared in June 2000 whose main objective
was to stimulate the recovery of private investment through privatization and economic
competitiveness.

2.       The project objective was to provide the necessary support to implement railway
activities in Cameroon aimed at improving the efficiency and sustainability of the
transport sector. Specifically, the project aimed at enhancing railway productivity,
service quality and competitiveness through modernization, rehabilitation and operation
of the railways under a 20 year concession awarded by the Government of Cameroon
(GOC) to a private railway operator.

BACKGROUND

3.      After a long recession from 1985 to 1994, Cameroon experienced a relatively
modest growth rate and its sustainability was a great challenge as the rapidly declining oil
production had a negative effect on gross domestic product (GDP) and export growth. In
the period from 1998 to 2000, annual growth was an average of 4.5 percent as the GOC
implemented a series of economic and structural reforms.

4.      Despite this growth and an improved economic stability resulting from the
devaluation of the CFA Franc in 1994 and considerable international support, including
that of the World Bank, the reform programs were implemented haphazardly and did not
attain their objectives with per capita income in 2000 reaching only two thirds of what it
was at its peak pre-depression level. Social indicators had also not improved, with some
deteriorating even further.

5.      Cameroon's external debt was larger than its GDP with an average interest rate
over six percent. Confidence in political and financial institutions needed to be built up
for the private sector to become an engine of a strong economic expansion. The main
issues in global economic policy and relations with development partners during the
period were therefore related to progress in reaching targets of the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries (HIPC) debt initiative. One of the key sets of conditions introduced by the
GOC's creditors was a divesture program with a new legal/regulatory framework aimed
at introducing competition in the electricity, telecommunications, postal, energy, water

1
  The Transport Technical Assistance Project approved in 1995 funded part of the preparatory studies for the CAMRAIL concession.
The Transport Sector Project approved in 1996 was the main support for this strategy (see ICR June 2004)



                                                               1
and transport sectors. Beyond this program, the Transport Sector Strategy (TSS) of 1995
provided a clear principal for private sector participation in various modes, proposing a
concession model for the railway subsector. This project's goal was to support the
implementation of these initiatives. During the preparation period, the GOC had
requested IDA assistance in the divestiture process.

ORIGINS OF THE CONCESSION

6.      Among the state owned companies included in this process was the poorly
performing Cameroonian National Railway Company (Régie Nationale des Chemins de
fer du Cameroun) (REGIFERCAM).                 The project provided the International
Development Association (IDA) an opportunity to encourage private institutions to
participate in infrastructure investment in Cameroon. IDA was joined by Agence
Française de Developpement (AFD, the French Agency for Development), the French
Company for Promotion and Participation for Economic Cooperation (PROPARCO) and
the European Investment Bank (EIB). Their presence in the project was a major factor in
attracting sponsors from the private sector. Project preparation did however take close to
six years including three between the first and second appraisal missions. This amount of
time was as a direct result of the difficulties encountered in carrying out Private Public
Partnership (PPP) programs in Cameroon.

7.      Railway transport had lost its competitiveness to road transport which had
benefitted from major improvement resulting from a boost in spending in road network
maintenance works, as well as the liberalization of the transport services.
REGIFERCAM's inefficiency and consequent lack of profitability can be attributed to a
lack of commercial orientation and interference from the GOC on management and
procurement decisions. This resulted in major backlogs in maintenance of both the
infrastructure and rolling stock. REGIFERCAM's financial situation deteriorated and it
reached an unsustainable level of debt.

8.       There was however a perceived profitability potential from rail transport of goods
if services were adequately managed.           This perceived profitability along with
REGIFERCAM's poor performance convinced the GOC that concessioning to the private
sector was the only viable means by which to sustain rail services in Cameroon. The
GOC therefore conducted an international competitive bidding process to select a
Concessionaire to assume operational responsibility for the railway. The concession
scheme included full financial responsibility of the Concessionaire to fund rolling stock,
infrastructure and operations, while the GOC had the responsibility over past
environmental liabilities, and the upgrade of safety standards and operational procedures.

9.      In 1999 the Cameroonian Railway Company (CAMRAIL), a consortium of
international and local firms whose main shareholders at the time were from France and
South Africa, was selected as a result of this process. The concession structure was
predicated upon mutual obligations between CAMRAIL and the GOC. On one hand,
CAMRAIL would buy back the existing rolling stock from the GOC using a government
loan and also pay a fixed concession fee as well as finance both rolling stock and rail

                                            2
network maintenance and rehabilitation. On the other hand, the GOC would pay for any
deficit linked to the Concession's public service obligations (passenger traffic) imposed
on CAMRAIL. The terms of this subsidy had not been fully agreed upon at the signing
of the concession contract. This delay resulted in postponing the closing of donors'
funding package.

INVOLVEMENT OF THE WORLD BANK GROUP

10.     The International Finance Corporation (IFC) had originally expressed its intention
to participate in the financing of the project in 1997 to 1998, but eventually decided not
to follow-through. This decision was made mainly in view of: (i) the financial projections
prepared by CAMRAIL which were considered too fragile and (ii) the inability for the
sponsors (in the configuration of the equity of the concession company at the time) to
provide adequate guarantees. These weaknesses were corrected during the concession
closing and at the beginning of the concession. However, the sponsors preferred not to
approach the IFC a second time and found alternative sources of financing, equal to the
amount initially to be financed by IFC, with the European Investment Bank, PROPARCO
of France and other local banks.

11.      IDA remained involved in the project preparation and finally appraised the project
alongside other development partners in 2002. IDA continued involvement was
rationalized as follows: (i) without the pledge of donor financing, especially for
infrastructure projects, the GOC would not have been able to attract bidders for the
railway concession and sponsors and commercial banks would not have followed the
investment in the rehabilitation of the railway system; and (ii) IDA was the only funding
institution which could provide the much needed access to long term maturity financing
to the Concessionaire through the GOC.

1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

12.     The objectives of the project were to: (i) improve the efficiency and sustainability
of the transport sector through private operation of the railway sector; and (ii) eliminate
the burden on public finance for provision of railway services. These objectives
supported the GOC's Transport Sector Strategy and Policy, which called for, among
others, state divestiture of transport operations in favor of greater private sector operation.

13.     The project was able to contribute to this goal specifically through the
implementation of a 20 year concession contract designed to enhance railway
productivity, service quality and competitiveness through modernization, rehabilitation
and operation of the railways.

14.    The outcome/impact indicators of the PDO were agreed upon during the appraisal
between the GOC, the Concessionaire, IDA and all the banks and development partners
funding the concession. They were intended to measure the project's performance and
included:
       · Increased freight rail traffic: to previous peak level by 2001;


                                              3
       ·   Current liquidity ratio higher than 1.1;
       ·   Long-term debt to equity ratio of less than 2.0;
       ·   Debt service coverage ratio higher than 1.4;
       ·   Staff cost to business turnover ratio less than or equal to 30 percent by the
           mid-term review and 28 percent by project end; and
       ·   Reduction in delays implementation rate of the transport plan.
15.    The output indicators were:
       ·   Staff productivity in traffic units (tu) /employee/year (less or equal to
           565,000);
       ·   Ratio of Staff Costs to UT less or equal to 28 percent;
       ·   The cumulative length of slowdown in effect for more than 90 days less or
           equal to 5 percent (52 km) of the rail network;
       ·   Number of usable locomotives always more or equal to 45, for a total number
           of 62 locomotives;
       ·   Reliability of locomotives (number of breakdown per 100,000 km less or
           equal to 5 for the CC, 13 for the BB1100, and 10 for the BB1200
           locomotives);
       ·   85 percent, or more, availability of the CC locomotives;
       ·   Kilometers travelled per year and per available locomotive more than or equal
           to 110,000 km for the CC locomotives;
       ·   Wagon turnaround time less than or equal to 7 days;
       ·   Control of logging and bush meat transport;
       ·   Cleaning worksites and prevention from further pollution; and
       ·   Improve transport and work safety.

1.3    Revised PDO and Key Indicators and Reasons/Justification

16.    There were no formal changes made to the PDO or key indicators during the
implementation of the project. However, the most critically examined indicators during
the project were mostly those related to the financial situation and the business
productivity.

1.4    Main Beneficiaries

17.     The primary target groups as identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
were rail transport users within the sub-region as well as producers and consumers of
products transported by rail. Freight shippers, particularly those involved in Cameroon's
primary trade sectors of lumber, petroleum and cotton, and transit trade with Chad, the
Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic, were to benefit from

                                             4
the more efficient and cost-effective provision of rail services, as well as improvements
in both reliability and quality of rail transport.

18.      The concession benefits to the GOC translated into reduced fiscal burden, while
for its shareholders they took the shape of financial profits. Likewise, railway staff
benefited from better working conditions while improvement in hazardous substance
transportation, fuel depots and maintenance shops conditions benefited the environment.
Finally, isolated village communities along the railway would maintain their access to the
rest of the country by railway, and benefit from job opportunities related to track
maintenance and rehabilitation activities.

1.5    Original Components (as approved)

19.     The components had been defined in 1999 as a "Programme d'Investissements
Prioritaire" (Priority Investment Program or PIP) which was to start at the same time as
the concession and was based on the initial assessment conducted for the information of
bidders during the concessioning process.

Component 1- Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Modernization (US$36.60 million,
IDA financing US$ 17.23 million)

20.     This component, which was to be implemented by CAMRAIL, aimed to
rehabilitate and modernize the rail infrastructure based on an initial network assessment
updated in 2002. It included: (i) renewal of about 63 km of track (K'AA - ZING); (ii)
rehabilitation of about 200 km of track with recovered rails (PK506-BELABO, 55km,
and BELABO-PANGAR, 145km); (iii) construction and rehabilitation of small and
medium structures and bridges; (iv) acquisition of signaling and radio-
telecommunications equipment to improve safety in railway operations; (v) rehabilitation
of main train station buildings and general engineering work; and (vi) extension of the
port of Douala's railway network.

21.      The US$17.23 million IDA contribution was to finance required goods for
infrastructure rehabilitation (rails, fasteners, sleepers, etc.), civil works and engineering
related services (e.g. design studies, works supervision). EIB, AFD, and PROPARCO
also contributed to financing this component to complement the Concessionaire's
financing, particularly for civil works, sleepers and welding.

Component 2-Rehabilitation of Rolling Stock, Track Maintenance Equipment and
Workshops- (US$22.17million, IDA financing US$0)

22.    This component comprised: (i) rehabilitation of 11 CC Class and 10 BB Class
locomotives; (ii) rehabilitation of 42 passenger coaches and 220 freight cars; (iii)
improvement of workshop facilities, including rehabilitation and purchase of
maintenance tools and equipment; and (iv) the rehabilitation and acquisition of track
maintenance equipment. EIB funded (i), (iii) and (iv), while PROPARCO financed (ii).



                                             5
Component 3- Environmental Improvement activities (US$5.15 million, IDA
financing US$ 4.16 million)

23.    The objective of this component was to support the implementation of the
Environmental and Social activities.

24.    Environmental improvement activities: This sub-component was to address
Environmental pollution related activities comprising: (i) clean-up of railway-related sites
polluted before the concessioning, in particular the area around the creosote facility in
Douala and the diesel fuel stations and workshops in Douala and Yaoundé; (ii)
engineering studies and supervision works; and (iii) implementation of the Environmental
and Safety Management Plan (ESMP), especially its provision related to logging and
bush meat control and its technical audit. The scope of activities for the whole this sub-
component was defined in the ESMP.

25.      Social Improvement activities: This sub-component dealt with two major issues:
(i) safety with the construction of level crossing and pedestrian bridges and (ii) the
potential resettlement of project affected people established in the railway right-of-way
with a yearly audit and provision for eventual resettlement compensation.

26.     In accordance with the Concession Agreement, the GOC assumed responsibility
for cleaning up pollution that predated the concession. CAMRAIL implemented this sub-
component on behalf of the Borrower.

Component 4-Emergency Investment Program ­ (US$21.68 million and Pre-
operating Expenses legal fees US$ 3.75 million: IDA financing 0)

27.     CAMRAIL took over operation of the railway in April 1999. Due to a re-
organization of CAMRAIL's shareholding and the delay in negotiating with both the
GOC and the financiers for the implementation of the Priority Investment Program (PIP),
CAMRAIL was obliged to conduct an emergency investment program starting in 2000
including: (i) fixed installations and buildings (track work, bridges and culverts,
workshop improvements); (ii) signalization and telecommunications; (iii) spare parts
(logistics, workshop, etc.) and (iv) administration.

28.     The emergency investment program was entirely financed by CAMRAIL and
completely executed prior to the start of the IDA funded activities. They were reflected
in the total investment plan to reflect the significant initial effort by the Concessionaire
vis à vis the other co-financiers. This was done through sponsor equity or lending, and
cash flow generated by operations. It was included in the total project cost at the end of
appraisal.

29.     IDA contribution to fund Component 1 was on-lent to CAMRAIL as a credit by
the GOC. Its contribution to Component 3 funded GOC's liabilities, and was to be
managed by CAMRAIL but with no reimbursement from CAMRAIL to the GOC. This
setting was consistent with the full concession arrangements signed in 1999 giving
CAMRAIL full financial responsibility for both rolling stock and infrastructure.

                                             6
1.5    Revised Components

30.     The components were not revised in terms of general activities. However, the
detailed contents of each component evolved over time as the GOC, Concessionaire, and
development partners found it relevant toward achieving the PDO. Modifications mostly
consisted in adding emergency investment for damaged sections of the infrastructure.

31.      The PIP was initially designed in 1997-1998 based on limited information on the
infrastructure and rolling stock conditions included in the bidding documents. The
concession could only marginally be amended during the first years of operations. After a
few years, the revised assessment of Concessionaire, GOC and financiers showed that the
investment needs had been largely underestimated, and were a significant financial risk to
the concession.

32.    These under-estimations however were not unique to this particular project. It has
been the case in most if not all concessions in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA). As a result
minor adjustments were made to Component 1 such as: (i) some of the priorities were to
be shifted to sections of infrastructure which were more deteriorated than expected,
especially between Douala and Yaoundé; and (ii) a larger investment plan was to be
prepared beyond the PIP.

33.    This resulted in a shift to emergency track rehabilitation works in 2005 - 2007 as
opposed to bridge rehabilitation which was postponed to 2008. The implementation of
the ESMP also led to higher than expected costs, which meant that the environmental
cleanup costs needed to be scaled down and the amounts allocated to NGO follow up of
the ESMP increased.

1.6    Other Significant Changes

34.    Other major changes related to the financial and contractual relationship between
GOC and CAMRAIL. These were mainly the passenger services convention and the two
concession amendments that occurred during the course of the project and are explained
below. Since they did not affect the PDO, they did not require board approval.

35.     Revision of passenger services: From the start of the concession, the GOC was
structurally in arrears on payments for passenger subsidies. These had been severely
undervalued in the concessioning framework resulting in CAMRAIL running at a deficit
and without assurance of financial sustainability. There was therefore a critical need to
review the concession framework in order to address this. This led to the signing, in
2003, of the passenger services convention which redefined rules and means of
compensation based on the results of a study carried out on passenger services. However
arrears had continued to accumulate until after this signing.

36.     First Amendment to the Concession: In September 2005, a first amendment to
the concession was signed between the GOC and the Concessionaire. This resulted in
CAMRAIL strengthening its financial position. It mainly consisted of : (i) partial debt
relief for CAMRAIL and payment of arrears from GOC, (ii) the establishment of a flat-

                                            7
rate amount for the concession fees (FCFA 1.5 billion), (iii) fiscal stability of the
Concession, (iv) the GOC mobilizing additional resources in the amount of FCFA 12 to
19 billion from bilateral and multi-lateral donors to finance additional track rehabilitation
and renewal works from 2008 onward, and (v) extension of the concession period to 30
years as of January 1, 2005. Following the signature of this first concession amendment,
GOC's payment of arrears related to the deficit generated by CAMRAIL's public service
obligations (i.e. passenger transport) were effectively eliminated as of December 31,
2005.

37.      This first amendment which did not change the risk sharing between the
Concessionaire and the GOC, served to guarantee the endangered short term financial
stability of the concession. The major challenges and risks after signing this amendment
were: (i) debt sustainability in the long term; (ii) uncertainty regarding timing for rolling
stock and infrastructure renewal and (iii) willingness of the GOC to respect its
commitments regarding passenger services compensations.

38.     Second Amendment to the Concession: IDA insisted from early 2006 on the
need to have longer term operational and financial projections, as the implementation of
the PIP had clearly shown that the five year horizon used since the beginning of the
concession was not sufficient to anticipate the evolution of the company's debt profile
and investment needs. There was a risk that several new amendments similar to the first
one would be needed overtime as it became apparent that the first amendment would not
guarantee long term financial sustainability. Implicitly, the need for a more balanced
framework in terms of risk sharing between the GOC and CAMRAIL given the necessary
level of investment had not yet been recognized. The company's financial situation
therefore remained very tense in 2006 and 2007 as reimbursement of principal for some
lenders kicked in, while reassessment of rolling stock and infrastructure needs showed
that without an overhaul of the concession framework, bankruptcy was to be expected in
the medium term in spite of solid operational performance.

39.      An amendment was therefore prepared by both parties. The main change in this
amendment was the financial risk sharing between the GOC (responsible for
infrastructure financing) and the Concessionaire (in charge of the operations and rolling
stock financing). To compensate the higher risk and financial burden to the GOC, its
revenue from the concession were further increased by the establishment of a variable fee
consisting in 50 percent of the benefits. This measure was also a safeguard to make sure
that the Concessionaire would not keep all profits in case of a higher than expected
activities' growth. Financial measures complemented the proposed amendment, including
increase in capital from the main shareholders. These changes were very significant and
required a very long time to get full consensus at the GOC level, as the fact that the
Concessionaire was fully responsible for all investment including infrastructure had been
one of the main tools in getting public acceptance of the concession.

40.    On November 4, 2008, this second amendment to the concession was finally
signed and it set up the basis for important investments in the railway sector for the 2009
- 2020 period with the following commitments: (i) FCFA 158 billion from CAMRAIL,

                                             8
especially in rolling stock and (ii) FCFA 72 billion from the GOC, especially in
infrastructure, with funding from the concession fees and from the donor community.

41.    A side measure of the second amendment impacted the IDA project: The
subsidiary loan from the GOC to CAMRAIL was no longer consistent with the revised
concession framework, within which infrastructure assets were to be funded by the GOC
without reimbursement by the Concessionaire. It was decided that the subsidiary loan
would be reimbursed immediately at 40 percent of its face value, and this reimbursement
was completed in May 2009. This also reduced CAMRAIL's long term debt.

42.     Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA): There was one
reallocation of credit proceeds. An official request dated May 4, 2004 was sent by GOC
to the Bank for the DCA amendment and credit re-allocation. This request required: (i)
reallocation of the IDA credit funds to fill the financial gap in the Emergency Investment
program in terms of track rehabilitation at the expense of civil works on bridges, and (ii)
a supplemental credit to fill financial gap for the rehabilitation/renewal of the track and
other rail infrastructure under a Complementary Investment Program (CIP). The request
for reallocation for track rehabilitation was accepted pending a commitment by
CAMRAIL to fund bridge rehabilitation before 2008 on its own funds (which was
actually done). However, the request for a supplemental credit was declined, funding
being granted to CAMRAIL only after the second amendment of the concession as part
of the CEMAC Transit and Transport Facilitation Project.

43.     Extension of the Closing Date of the Project: In November 2008, the project
closing date was extended by six months, from December 31st, 2008 to June 30th, 2009.
This was to allow for the full disbursement of the credit amount as two suppliers were not
in a position to deliver their intended supplies by the closing date, and the environmental
cleanup work in Douala which also required extra time, mostly due to delayed inputs.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1     Project Preparation Design and Quality at Entry

PREPARATION

44.    Project preparation benefited from the orientations of the IDA-funded Transport
Sector Strategy of 1995 and of the general orientation toward divestiture from state
owned enterprises. However, preparation lasted close to six years, including three
between the first and the second appraisals. This was as a result of the difficulties in
carrying out a Public Private Partnership (PPP) in infrastructure in Cameroon (for a long
time CAMRAIL was almost the only existing PPP in the sector) caused by the lack of an
appropriate PPP legal framework and limited capacity.

45.    The project was also an innovation as it was only the second completed rail
concession transaction on the continent. Nonetheless, the timeframe from decision
through concession award to the actual project start was consistent with what has been
observed for concessioning processes in other countries in SSA: there is a substantial lead

                                            9
time to get a transaction underway, and when a concession is awarded, closing costs with
lenders and the GOC usually lasts very long.


PROJECT DESIGN

46.     The project was consistent with the Bank's CAS progress report prepared in June,
2000 and whose main objective was to stimulate private investment through privatization
and economic competitiveness. It was also aligned to Cameroon's priorities at the time
as stated in the TSS.

47.      The project design was innovative and responsive to critical concession
requirements and had room for flexibility which allowed for the modification of project
activities without affecting the PDO. It involved several lenders, each with the latitude to
monitor its funds independently while keeping the global perspective of achieving the
desired project objectives. The financial contribution of each lender is found in annex 1.
The passenger transport service, MOBIRAIL, which was part of the concession design,
proved to be very successful and was a breakthrough that has been duplicated in other
railway concessions in Africa.

48.     Concession Setup: The GOC chose to merge two bids into a concession, which
was not the preferred option for financial institutions. The time between start of the
concession (1999) and closing of the PIP financing in 2002 was long if compared to other
transactions, but can be explained by the need for closing conditions valid for all
financial institutions (essentially France through AFD and PROPARCO, EIB and IDA).
These delays can be explained partly by the Concessionaire's strategy: the
Concessionaire's shareholders (as is the case for all similar cases) tried to minimize risk,
therefore providing insufficient guarantees for non sovereign lenders (IDA was the only
sovereign lender on this arrangement, but its financing was linked to that of non
sovereign lenders).

49.     This delayed the instruction of most of the financing which also suffered from: (i)
difficulties with the GOC in terms of definition of compensations to be paid by the GOC
for passenger deficits, and then clearance of passenger services payments arrears and; (ii)
environmental sensitivity of the infrastructure and rail sector in Cameroon, leading to the
elaboration of a very detailed ESMP. Consequently, during the appraisal, all parties
focused on the resolution of matters arising from the negotiations. In the meantime, the
Concessionaire needed to also focus on running the railway while undertaking critical
emergency investment.

50.     The three years between the concession start and the financing could not be used
to refine the investment plan beyond the emergencies incorporated in Component 4. As a
result, changes in the investment plan were bound to happen overtime as the initial
estimate had been done very early and did not benefit from extensive knowledge of the
infrastructure condition. This later resulted in a higher than expected investment needs,
ultimately leading to the review of the concession framework as described above.


                                            10
51.     However in the context prevailing at the time, it was probably not possible to
anticipate these factors and none of the actors were in a position to have enough foresight
on the critical issues at stake while reviewing the investment program, given their focus
on institutional and financial issues.
52.     Project Design is therefore rated as Satisfactory.

QUALITY AT ENTRY

53.     The design of the project rightly included a fair amount of technical assistance
from the different financiers involved as a way of mitigating risks that could be
associated with the relatively new concept of rail concession in SSA. The Bank played an
active role in development of both the Transport Sector Strategy and the Transport Sector
Program, of which this project was a component. The Bank brought considerable
experience in privatization and concessioning to assist the GOC and CAMRAIL, and the
Bank also advised the GOC throughout the concession process. Bank support to the
project attracted other donors and provided a framework for coordinated and coherent
sector investment. All this facilitated the concession process and attracted qualified
bidders with sufficient capital and provided long-maturing financing to assist the
Concessionaire.

54.     The PAD documented the project and its background particularly well and
assessed key potential risks that could jeopardize implementation including the inability
of the GOC to respect its commitment to the concession. A shortcoming, however, was
the lack of detailed review of CAMRAIL's proposed investment plan which resulted in
an underestimation of investment projections and lacked long term sustainability.
Moreover, the project indicators selected at appraisal listed were too many, with some
being too ambitious or redundant and not critical to measure the PDO. They were more
output rather than outcome indicators.

55.     These two flaws are however justified by the fact that projects of this nature were
rare at the time of preparation, and applicable best practices difficult to find. Lessons
from similar operations, notably the Cote d'Ivoire-Burkina railway concession, were
taken into account in the design of this project, and were described in the PAD.
Experiences from other financiers such as IFC were equally taken into consideration,
including the choice of suitable technical solutions and indicators and the financing
methods/models.

56.     Safeguards: The project was originally given a Category B environmental rating
under OP 4.01. An Environmental Assessment (EA) was undertaken on this basis, and
the EA Report was submitted to the Bank and IFC in November 1998, and a summary
sent to the Board in January 1999.

57.     Subsequently, additional questions were raised about the environmental and social
impacts of the project that were not comprehensively covered in the Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) of 1998. This happened after the Board date was postponed
following delays in the expected agreements with the sponsors. The project was
therefore upgraded to a Category A environmental rating in November 2000 to address

                                            11
pertinent environmental, safety and social issues in a more comprehensive manner and to
reduce the reputational risk for the Bank. A revised EIA and Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP) were designed to this effect. The final ESMP clearly spelled
out the expected outputs, and appropriate measures were taken to ensure its
implementation from the start of the project. It complied with the new environmental
rating at the time, based on OP 4.01 and the Safeguard Policies of the Bank.

58.     A public consultation program was done to ensure stakeholders participation. A
highly participatory approach was used during the preparation of the project which
included many stakeholders active in the sector and along the railway right of way, in
order to support the sustainability of the project. Information on environmental and social
issues was made available to the public through public announcements. The GOC
committed to the resettlement of people moved from the Railway Right-of-Way, in
compliance with the Bank's Resettlement Policy. The Initial Resettlement Commitment
from the GOC was US$500,000, with a commitment to finance the entire resettlement
operation in case this was not sufficient.

59.       Quality at entry is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

2.2       Implementation

60.     CAMRAIL was responsible for the implementation of all the components of the
project. It also self financed the emergency investment plan as explained above. Each
activity was managed from a technical standpoint by the relevant department at
CAMRAIL. A Concession Monitoring Committee (CMC) was created in accordance
with the Concession Agreement and was headed by a GOC designee. It comprised of
representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MINEFI), the Ministry of
Transport and three representatives of CAMRAIL.

61.     The CMC acted as a discussion forum between the GOC and CAMRAIL whose
role was to monitor the execution of the concession agreement, including implementation
of CAMRAIL's investment program. Likewise, the Ministry of Transport (MINT)
created a Railway Monitoring Unit (RMU), with adequate staffing and the mandate to
reach out to external expertise. The RMU also monitored compliance with transport
regulations, in particular those relating to safety and the environment. It also participated
in CMC meetings and working sessions as needed.

62.    The Department of Forestry and the Department of Wildlife and Protected Areas
in the Ministry of Environment and Forests: (i) provided CAMRAIL with relevant and
necessary environmental information; (ii) monitored CAMRAIL's compliance with
environmental protection regulations and implementation of the Railway Environmental
and Safety Management Plan; and (iii) undertook in collaboration with CAMRAIL the
control of rail transport of timber and bush meat. Linkages with the GOC's forestry
program2 strengthened the effectiveness of forestry protection measures. Within
2
  Supported by several development partners including the World Bank through the Cameroon DPL-Forestry and Environment
development Project.


                                                            12
MINEFI, the Forestry Enhancement Revenue Program (FERP) also worked with
CAMRAIL to control the transport of timber. CAMRAIL and MINEFI shared
information to improve their respective databases as well as the collection of appropriate
revenues and fees. An independent Non Governmental Organization (NGO) assisted with
monitoring for the transport of illegal bush meat.

63.      The Bank conducted a Mid Term Review (MTR) of the project in February 2006,
and assessed the overall progress of the project toward achieving its development
objectives. Based on the findings of the MTR, the Bank team made the following
recommendations for the remaining phase of the project: (i) compliance by the GOC to
its financial obligations related to passenger services; (ii) development of an
infrastructure investment plan by the GOC and CAMRAIL for both track and bridges;
(iii) preparation of financial projections with a long term orientation (2006-2020); (iv)
preparation of a technical and financial plan for works related to the rehabilitation of the
rail track between Batchenga and Kaa which was deemed to be the most urgent next
rehabilitation phase and, (v) elimination of non justified customs and police controls
hampering CAMRAIL's operations at the Douala port.

64.    Despite its broad scope which involved a number of funding agencies, the project
had a sound implementation arrangement which worked adequately. The Credit closing
date was extended once for a total of six months.

Factors within the control of the implementing agency / GOC

65.     Implementation started rapidly after board approval as a large share of the
investment program had already been procured. The major activities were completed
after two years. However, between 2005 and 2007, implementation slowed down, due to
the need to restructure the PIP to take into account emergency repairs and the need to
restructure the concession given the financial challenges posed by the investment needs
as explained above. There were also changes in CAMRAIL's teams which slowed
procurement processes and led to stagnating disbursement. Activities picked up again in
2008 and most of the activities were achieved, but a six month extension of the project
closing date was needed to ensure full disbursement and completion.

66.     At the end of 2004, CAMRAIL incurred an insolvency risk for which GOC's
actions were primarily responsible including the growing passenger services deficit
without compensation payment. This issue was resolved at the end of 2005 following the
signature of the first concession contract amendment. Later, as explained earlier, the
need to adjust the concession's financial structure in order to ensure its sustainability
resulted in Cabinet approval process which was completed in November 2008.

67.     CAMRAIL consistently submitted to IDA and the GOC as required: (i) monthly
reports comprising statistics on traffic, rolling stock performance, infrastructure
management, human resources and financial performance of its operations; (ii) quarterly
reports on railway operation performance (including progress towards performance
indicators) and project implementation, and (iii) annual technical audits of the Railway


                                            13
Environment and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and civil works, carried out by
independent auditors.
68.     Other factors within the control of the implementing agency / GOC are discussed
in Section 2.4 below on safeguards.

Factors outside the control of the implementing agency / GOC

69.     After a promising start, the operation of the concession became more difficult due
to the impact of the global economic downturn in 2008 and the first half of 2009. This
affected some aspects of the project implementation as will be explained in the following
paragraphs. This impaired essentially the end of project traffic target volume which
however, had been consistently met from 2005 to 2008.

70.     The high demand in iron and wood around the world during most of the project
implementation period considerably impacted the concession operating costs from 2005
until 2007. This was reflected in much higher goods and equipment prices than expected
for spot rehabilitation. Statistics showed an annual increase rate of; 10 percent in 2003,
18.6 percent in 2004, 19 percent in 2006 and 78 percent in 20073 in the price of iron that
was used to produce steel.

71.     The fluctuation of the exchange rate between the US Dollar, the Euro and their
implication on the SDR (which was the credit's currency) was another significant factor
outside the control of the implementing agency / GOC. The value of the credit expressed
in Francs CFA (or in Euro, in which most of the transactions were made) devalued by
more than 10 percent overall (and was 15 percent below its initial exchange rate at some
points) which did not give the project any contingencies to adapt to changing needs nor
allowed the financing of any additional activities without dropping existing ones.

2.3       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

72.     M&E Design: The indicators agreed upon during project preparation were
designed to fit financial requirements of direct lenders, and allow the GOC and its
financiers to review the operational performance of the concession. The result was a very
detailed set of financial and operational indicators and ratios, which were fit for the
manager of a railway company but were probably too numerous, ambitious and
redundant to provide a concise view of the project implementation and the achievement
of its PDO. The design of the M&E system implied that all data was to be provided by
CAMRAIL. The technical and financial external audits were commissioned either by the
GOC or by the project's lenders.

73.     The implementation of the ESMP was carried out by an international NGO,
World Conservation Society (WCS), initially recruited for environmental protection
audits and the remaining actions were directly implemented by the Environmental and

3
    Sources: UNCTAD and Rio Tinto Inc.


                                           14
Safety Department of CAMRAIL through consultancy firms and NGOs. However there
were no specific environment related indicators as part of the project documents. The
review of the ESMP was therefore mostly qualitative.

74.     M&E Implementation: The M&E system implementation after the creation of
the Unité de Programmation et du Suivi des Investissements (UPSI) was effective as
CAMRAIL provided all indicators monthly, with quarterly reports followed by annual
reports summarizing their status. These in-house reports were reviewed by both the GOC
and donors. Donors also independently carried out external reviews to verify the
accuracy of data submitted by CAMRAIL. This data was consequently shared with the
GOC and CAMRAIL. Both the reporting and M&E requirements spelt out in the legal
documents were fully met by CAMRAIL. The annual audit of the ESMP was also
submitted regularly throughout the life of the project.

75.      M&E Utilization: CAMRAIL used indicators from data collected to monitor its
own operations. These allowed for timely and appropriate actions to be taken in
requesting the reallocation of funds as were deemed necessary (for example, the
reallocation to emergency track repairs followed a significant increase in derailment
statistics). Both in-house reports and lenders analyses were used extensively both during
supervision and subsequently in the preparation of the amendments to the concession as
well as the preparation of subsequent investment plans and funding from IDA.

76.     Supervision missions, external and internal reviews and audits, were used as a
basis for assessing the achievement of targets and planning the way forward. The project
was the subject of two supervision missions on average every year. The aide-memoires
were complete and detailed. During each supervision mission, the Bank team carried out
a broad review of the project and made detailed recommendations to the Concessionaire
and the GOC. These recommendations were generally implemented. In practice, the
Bank's team provided continuous broad technical support through permanent dialogue
which was conducted by video conference, email and telephone outside the field
mission's periods.

77.     The only caveat of the M&E system was that it was designed to fit many needs (to
measure the achievement of the PDO, but also operational, financial for a wide range of
lenders). As a result, it was very detailed and probably did not give a concise enough
picture for the achievement of the PDO itself. A restructuration of the results framework
may have been useful, but was not pursued as other co-financiers, the GOC and the
Concessionaire did not want to change the set of indicators which had been difficult to
agree upon during preparation.

78.    This ICR rating for M&E is Satisfactory.
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

79.     Environment: Bank Operational Policies on Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04) and Forestry (OP 4.36) were the safeguards policy
triggered for this project which was upgraded from category B to category A as explained

                                           15
above. Ratings were either "moderately satisfactory" or "satisfactory" during
implementation. Environmental aspects of the project were addressed in compliance with
the ESMP as was adopted as part of the project preparation. CAMRAIL carried out an
updated Environmental and Social Audit in 2007 which was satisfactory to the Bank and
whose main recommendations were implemented in the subsequent fundings from IDA
to the sector.

80.    This ICR rates safeguards compliance Satisfactory.

81.     The partnership with MINFOF on illegal logging and bush meat trade were and
still are considered innovative and very successful.       The same methods were
recommended and are being used for the subsequent support received by CAMRAIL
under the CEMAC Transport and Transit Facilitation Project. The component related to
environmental cleanup experienced delays in its design and execution which resulted in
the 6 month extension of the credit. However the scheduled works were finally carried
out within budget.

82.     At the end of the project CAMRAIL proposed three additional activities which
were consistent with the ESMP: (i) the rehabilitation of the access road to the CAMRAIL
Yaoundé medical center, (ii) the environmental impact assessment study of the EBAKA
quarry which is potentially the next source of ballast for CAMRAIL (iii) the
reinforcement of environmental follow-up, especially related to the protection of faunae
and illegal bush meat transportation. These were executed within the project timeframe
and reflect the CAMRAIL's implementation of the ESMP recommendations.

83.      Social Assessment: The project (mostly through Concessionaire's operational
activities) also addressed key social impacts of rail operations on neighboring population
such as: (i) the signing of 154 conventions with villages along the railway right of way
for basic maintenance and vigilance works, (ii), the improvement of safety conditions in
workshops and work environment by putting in place an emergency safety plan (iii) the
improvement of the hygienic situation of the project related areas through the
construction of basic social necessities such as latrines (28), bore holes and wells for
potable water (33), (iv) the construction of medical centers for staff of CAMRAIL and
villagers along the railway right of way, (v) the creation and refurbishing of existing
canteens for staff with free breakfast, (vi) a convention with the National AIDS
committee that carried out annual sensitization campaigns on Human Immunodeficiency
Virus/ Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) and ensured the integration
of HIV/AIDS programs through capacity building amongst management and staff and
(vii) offering free medical care and treatment to staff living with HIV/AIDS. See also
section 3.6 below.

84.    The ICR rating for social assessment is Satisfactory.

85.    Financial Management (FM): Some minor shortcomings in financial
management existed such as internal controls including accounting policies and
procedures, as CAMRAIL did not want to set project specific processes but incorporated

                                           16
project questions into its procedures. The audits of CAMRAIL itself were generally
qualified, but this situation was mostly due to the complexity in the accounting for
transferred assets. However, these did not prevent the timely and reliable provision of
information that was required to manage and monitor the implementation of the project.
Audit reports were all submitted on time and on a regular basis.

86.    Overall, the FM system in place is rated Satisfactory.

87.    Procurement Performance: There were no major procurement issues recorded
and all contracts were awarded according to procedures despite slight delays with bid
evaluations in some of the activities as explained above.

88.    The performance of the implementing agency in procurement was Satisfactory.

2.5    Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

89.      From an institutional setting standpoint, the second amendment to the concession
does provide long term sustainability to the concession framework, but supposes
substantial investment from the GOC in infrastructure. Post completion activities
between the GOC, CAMRAIL and IDA have therefore mostly focused on financing the
infrastructure gap and the sustainability of investment planning with regard to the GOC's
liabilities under the revised concession agreement.

90.     The railway activities within the Cameroon component of the CEMAC Transport
and Transit Facilitation Project (CEMAC TTF) were therefore designed to pursue and
consolidate the objectives of the project. The GOC approached IDA and AFD as early as
2006 to fund the five years investment plan designed at the time. Since AFD did not have
funding available for sovereign lending, IDA ended up funding the agreed infrastructure
rehabilitation, now part of Credit 4337-CM. This investment plan is funded on the
infrastructure side by the GOC, which uses IDA support (for US$52 million) and revenue
from the concession fees, essentially to renew the Batchenga - Kaa section of the railway
network and start the renewal of passenger services equipment. CAMRAIL is responsible
for funding in parallel, a rolling stock (mainly traction) renewal plan.

91.     The investment plan contained in the second amendment of the concession
contract covers the period 2009-2013. It was initially designed to start in 2008. There
was a general consensus in 2009 that this plan needed to be complemented by an
additional funding of critical activities as part of a revised investment plan. This plan
covers the need for faster renewal of both the rail network and the rolling stock (both
freight and passengers). It is designed to assist CAMRAIL in meeting the pent up
demand for transport in the North of Cameroon and Chad markets as well as finance
GOC's infrastructure and passenger coach financing obligation. It is financed in part
(US$30 million) under a supplemental credit for the CEMAC TTF project approved by
the Bank's Board of Directors in November 2009.




                                           17
92.    The project closing date of June 2009 helped set up capacities that are now used
to implement larger investment plans in a sustainable institutional framework. During
the ICR mission it was agreed that data collection for measuring post-completion
performance would be submitted regularly to the CEMAC TTF project team, to monitor
and report on outcomes on an ongoing basis.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

93.     The relevance of the project objective, its design and implementation, are rated
Satisfactory. They were assessed in terms of responsiveness of the project to current
circumstances as discussed in Section 2.1 above. The Bank Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) team shares the view that there was a good match between the initial
objectives of the project and Cameroon's economic and transport context at inception.

94.    The relevance of these objectives is definitely proven by the financial
performance of CAMRAIL and the positive net transfers from the rail sector to the GOC,
compared to the situation of the late 90s, before the signing of the concession agreement,
where the financial burden of the GOC was severe because of REGIFERCAM's high
operating expense, coupled with large arrears to fiscal, pensions and social security
administrations.

95.      The project was equally consistent with Cameroon's priorities at appraisal, and is
still fully relevant today, as stated in its revised Growth and Employment Strategy. It is
equally fully in line with the Bank's most recent CAS in preparation whose objective also
emphasizes the reduction of infrastructure and transport constraints. The initial design of
the concession (full concession) was probably too optimistic in retrospect but
corresponded to the beliefs of the time with regard to the capacity of the private sector to
contribute financially to the railway infrastructure rehabilitation.

96.     The design of the investment plan was probably a little bit overlooked by all
parties involved, partly due to the lack of information on the actual quality of
infrastructure and rolling stock. This was adjusted during the implementation and
preparation of the 2nd amendment of the concession and of the CEMAC TTF project.

3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives

97.      The project's key development objectives were to: (i) improve efficiency and
sustainability of the transport sector through private operation of the railway sector; and
(ii) eliminate the burden on public finance for provision of railway services. The project
was always considered likely to achieve its PDO throughout implementation.

98.    Their achievement is rated Satisfactory.

99.    There was however, an unsatisfactory rating of the Development Objectives at the
end of 2004 due to the near term insolvency risk experienced by CAMRAIL for which

                                            18
the GOC's actions were primarily responsible (i.e. growing passenger service deficit
without compensation payment), and a moderately unsatisfactory rating again in 2008
while there was a doubt that the second amendment would be signed after a GOC cabinet
reshuffle, which may have compromised the concession's sustainability. These situations
were solved by the two amendments to the concession agreements signed in 2005 and
end of 2008 respectively.

100. The sustainability of the concession from a financial and operational standpoint
and the reversal of financing flows between the sector and the GOC are very significant
achievements of the project. A substantial contribution of the project's supervision was
to clarify the long term needs which also led to a clarification of the long term
sustainability of the concession while preserving the GOC's interests. The second
amendment of the concession agreement guaranteed the financial stability of the
concession without compromising the right for the GOC to benefit from the concession's
benefits in case of higher than expected traffic/financial results. Even though very
significant results have been achieved for the project, they are not completely reflected in
the outcome indicators, which are mostly operational in nature and cannot factor issues
like the current economic downturn.

101. The targeted financial situation and net balance of flows in favor of the GOC, and
the traffic indicators were largely exceeded in spite of the economic crisis and much
higher than expected infrastructure constraints. Moreover, comparing the Cameroon rail
concession with all other concessions in SSA, its performance seems clearly to be one of
the best.

3.3    Outputs by Component

102. The overall project outputs are rated satisfactory. A comparative presentation of
pre-and post-project output indicators is shown in Annex 2. It must be mentioned that
meeting project outputs would have been difficult if the concession agreement had not
been adjusted as discussed above. These adjustments, supported by the GOC's readiness
to finance the infrastructure helped uphold the relevance of the project to the attainment
of its objectives.

Component1- Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Modernization - (US$39.00 million
actual; IDA financing US$ 17.23 million)

103. Component 1 for which IDA contributed close to fifty percent of the financing
was substantially achieved and is rated satisfactory. This component included: (i) renewal
of 63 km of track (K'AA - ZING); (ii) rehabilitation of 200 km of track with recovered
rails to bring the network to a serviceable standard (PK506-BELABO, 55km, and
BELABO-PANGAR, 145km); (iii) construction and rehabilitation of small and medium
structures and bridges; (iv) acquisition of signaling and radio-telecommunications
equipment to improve safety in railway operations; (v) rehabilitation of main train station
buildings and general engineering work; and (vi) extension of the railway system of the
port of Douala.


                                            19
104. The scope of the component was adjusted as the project progressed, with
additional sections rehabilitated to tackle emergencies or unforeseen deterioration of
critical spots. All were achieved by 100 percent as planned. EIB, AFD, and PROPARCO
contributing as agreed. The adjustments/additions were mostly done between IDA and
the Concessionaire: the elements required to rehabilitate additional sections were
procured with funding from the IDA credit, while the Concessionaire funded in 2008 the
bridge rehabilitations initially earmarked for IDA funding.

Component 2-Rehabilitation of Rolling Stock, Track Maintenance Equipment and
Workshops- (US$ 20.83million actual; not financed by IDA)

105. Component 2 was 100 percent achieved as scheduled. IDA made no contribution
to this component which included the: (i) rehabilitation of 11 CC Class and 10 BB Class
locomotives; (ii) rehabilitation of 42 passenger coaches and 220 freight cars; (iii)
improvement of workshop facilities, including rehabilitation and purchase of
maintenance tools and equipment; and (iv) the rehabilitation and acquisition of track
maintenance equipment.

106.   This component is rated Satisfactory.

Component 3- Environmental Improvement activities - (US$ 5.15 million actual;
IDA financing US$ 4.16 million).

107. Component 3 was mostly funded by IDA. This component was aimed at
improving the Environmental and Social activities as described earlier. However, its
overall implementation indicated a fully accomplished desired objective. The polluted
sites were cleaned-up, the engineering studies and supervision works were carried out
satisfactorily, and Environmental and Social Management Plan executed as planned.
With regard to the Social activities, level crossing and pedestrian bridges for safety were
constructed and the resettlement of Project Affected People established in the railway
right-of-way was done in compliance with applicable safeguards.

108.   This component is also rated Satisfactory.

3.4    Efficiency

109. The project efficiency can mainly be measured through the achievement of
financial sustainability for the Concessionaire, and through the confirmation of an
appropriate balance of funds flows between the GOC and the railway sector after project
implementation. The efficiency of each individual activity is not necessarily relevant as
all contributed to the sustainability of operations.

110.   The efficiency of this project is rated Satisfactory.

111. Financial sustainability of the Concessionaire: The target value of the current
liquidity ratio at appraisal was to be > 1. The current value of 1.1 shows that CAMRAIL
is now able to pay back its short-term liabilities with its short-term assets. It therefore

                                             20
gives a sense of the efficiency of CAMRAIL's operating cycle and its ability to turn its
product into cash.

112. Similarly, CAMRAIL has also achieved its primary objective to maintain a debt
coverage ratio greater than 1.4 with a value of 1.8 at the end of December 2008. This
good benchmark shows that CAMRAIL is now able to produce enough cash to service its
debt reliably.

113. The flows of funds between the GOC and CAMRAIL also remained consistently
positive during the whole period of project implementation.

114. The cost benefit and fiscal impact as analyzed in Annex 3 is summarized as
follows:

                        Present value of Flow-
                                                                   Fiscal Impact on Taxes
                          Economic Analysis
                                     After Project                              After Project
                                     (Projected for 20
                   Before Project   years including 10
                                                               Before Project   (After 10 years of
                                                                                  effectiveness)
                                     years of effectiveness)
                                                                 On sales         On sales
                                                                 23,600           33,022
Net Benefits:                                                   On import        On import
discounted at                                                     5,100            2,539
                       58,026              58,596               Total Budget     Total Budget
10 percent
                                                                  surplus          surplus
(CFAF Million)
                                                                  37,440            45,665
                                                                  (NPV at          (NPV at
                                                                 10percent)       10percent)
IRR:                26.0 percent       39.6 percent

115. The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the concession program is estimated at 39.6
percent compared to 26.0 percent at appraisal. The net present value (NPV) at a 10
percent discount rate amounts to around CFA francs 58.60 billion (Projected for 20 years
of concession including 10 years of effectiveness) as against 58.0 billion at appraisal. A
sensitivity analysis for the same 20 years period at a 12 percent discounted rate, gives a
NPV of CFA francs 49.0 billion. Similarly, the fiscal impact is estimated at a net present
value (10 percent discount rate) of CFAF 45.67 billion for the first ten years of the
concession as against CFAF 37.44 billion at appraisal. These indicators demonstrate the
strong economic viability of the project.

3.5    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

116. Project outcomes are significant and the financial profitability and sustainability
of the rail concession are guaranteed. Outcome indicators for most of the components
were substantially met, although over a slightly longer timeframe, with no cost overrun.
The longer duration of project implementation was due essentially to unforeseen
concession agreement bottlenecks between the GOC and the Concessionaire as well as

                                               21
some minor procurement and administrative drawbacks. However, since these factors did
not affect the achievement of the PDO, they are understandable given the context and
challenges linked to a new concession.

117.   Overall the outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory.

118. The extension of the project's closing date by six months helped overcome initial
delays in implementation of the remaining project activities.

3.6    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

119. Substantial efforts were provided by CAMRAIL to improve social conditions of
the company as previously explained. It may be noted among others the establishment of
a program of access to potable water (potable water connection, construction of wells,
installation of fountains, regular water drilling etc.), the provision of a free breakfast in
staff workshops and operating sites, and free medical examinations and health care to
food sellers in canteens ( who are mostly women). In the same context, several low cost
food sale sites (warehouses) have been set up by CAMRAIL in Douala. CAMRAIL now
covers 80 percent of its 11,000 employees and family members' health care, primarily
through its six medical centers in Douala and Yaoundé.

120. Furthermore, CAMRAIL also undertakes the cost of Anti Retro Virals (ARV) for
its employees living with HIV/AIDS. In 2009, there was 2.45 percent compared to 6.6
percent in 2001.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

121. The project implementation period saw important changes in GOC policies on
PPP and privatization. The Bank and other financiers' views towards divestiture and
concession also evolved as a result of the experience accumulated over the last decade
having demonstrated that the private sector's willingness to finance rail infrastructure
was far lower than expected. CAMRAIL's case was in fact a learning experience in this
respect.

122. The following activities were undertaken to develop the institutional capacity of
both the GOC and CAMRAIL: (i) provision of a framework for coordinated and coherent
sector investment; (ii) Knowledge sharing on sector experiences to assist the Borrower
and CAMRAIL in the concession process; (iii) development of the procurement and
financial management capacity of CAMRAIL; (iv) development of the capacity of the
Borrower and CAMRAIL to formulate policies and undertake the relevant decisions to
improve the rail sector; (v) Provision of timely support for the revision of concession
arrangements which facilitated the establishment of a legal framework for railway
private-public partnerships and private provision of infrastructure.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

                                             22
123. The project had a major unintended impact in that it was timely to facilitate the
movement of various heavy equipment needed for the construction of the Chad-
Cameroon Pipeline. Had the railway been in its original condition and management
system, it seems very likely that these investments would have faced major upheavals.
This would have been very difficult especially given the heavy nature of the equipment
and the fact that the GOC at that time was equally enforcing strict axle-load control along
the said corridor.

3.7    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

124. This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder
workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

125. Risk analysis is rated as moderately satisfactory. Overall project risk was rated
modest at appraisal and analyzed in terms of failure to achieve critical assumptions to
project indicators. The analysis appears appropriate for most of the assumptions made,
but it was probably too optimistic to consider the risk as modest. The elements that posed
the highest risk to development outcomes were mostly political (that the GOC would not
respect the concession agreement and a general lack of geopolitical stability). However,
given the innovative nature of rail concession in SSA, the team should have anticipated
risks associated with underestimation of investment costs, and the need to adjust
concession agreement terms. The PAD recognized some of these risks but rated them as
negligible and hence, failed to include appropriate mitigating measures.

126. During the first years of project implementation one of these risks materialized
with failure to pay passenger compensation. It was however resolved by the first
amendment to the concession as a result of the passengers' convention. Another threat to
the concession's sustainability was the high level of investment needed, which was
threatening the achievements of the PDO. This however was mitigated by the
renegotiation of a second concession amendment offering a new structure that addressed
the Concessionaire's long term financial issues that threatened its solvency.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

127. This Bank's performance rating is essentially based on: (i) The broad overview
the Bank took when preparing the Development Objectives, (ii) the specific manner in
which the project was designed (iii) the key role it played in helping reach an agreement
to close the concession financing plan and, (iv) the measures envisaged to secure what
was still a critical and pioneering venture. The technical, economic, institutional and
social analyzes for this project could have been stronger but for the limitation of
knowledge on rail concessions at the time.


                                            23
128. Donor coordination proved to be very helpful during the preparation phase, since
the Bank's dialogue with the GOC on air transport and port issues was tense. Major
indicators were identified from the onset and documented to ensure that they were dealt
with appropriately by matching them with the Concessionaire's business reporting needs.
However, the list of indicators may have been simplified, to avoid redundancy and the
risk of indicators not being achieved that were not really critical to the PDO. The
limitations in risk analysis discussed above and the complexity of the concession
agreement that led to two amendments are equally factors affecting quality at entry.

129.   The Bank's performance on Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

130.    The Bank undertook regular supervision missions which were always followed
by detailed aide-memoires and ISRs which were extensive and provided highlights on
key issues and prompt information to the client and Bank management. The mix skills of
expertise of Bank's supervision team were well balanced and this enabled the Bank to be
proactive in ensuring that any hiccups arising were resolved as efficiently as possible.

131. Supervision quality was further enhanced by good cooperation between the Bank
team and the GOC. Sharing of monitoring results, re-orientation of actions and seeking
improved impact through constant innovation, in addition to regular joint missions with
AFD and EIB enabled the Bank to maintain a constructive dialogue with the GOC. The
quality of the fiduciary management reviews was equally satisfactory and consistent with
the Bank's guidelines.

132. The actions taken by the Bank to resolve implementation bottlenecks were
adequate, timely and proactive as well as its efforts to strengthen the project Monitoring
and Evaluation framework especially with regards to safeguards. Among the actions
taken by the Bank to resolve issues that arose during project implementation was the
ability revise the emergency investment plan based on business needs. The Bank also
used dialogue to convince the GOC to the necessity of paying arrears to CAMRAIL
linked to passenger services deficit. The Bank equally played the very important role of
an `honest broker' during the revision of the concession contract in 2006 and 2007.

133.   The quality of Bank supervision is rated as Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

134. The factors taken into consideration as regards the Bank's performance included;
the quality at entry and supervision, the strong cooperation between the Bank team,
CAMRAIL and the GOC, the Bank's ability to play a lead role in coordinating the
various donors involved in the project, the achievement of the project development
objectives and, the sustained policy dialogue with the GOC leading to continued Bank
engagement in the sector through the ongoing CEMAC Transport and Transit Facilitation
Project.

                                           24
135.   Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
136. While the GOC indicated a commitment to increasing competitiveness in the rail
sector, the reality was that its support for some key measures, particularly those relating
to passenger services, were half hearted. There was a perceived risk at project inception
that the GOC would not respect the concession agreement on this issue, a risk that was
actually validated by the GOC's refusal to let CAMRAIL increase passenger fares even
at a time when CAMRAIL was in financial difficulties.

137. The GOC was also slow in forging consensus on planned reforms which were
critical to the concession's success. The concession control structure implied that it had
few staff to supervise the concession and had to rely on a core of civil servants from
ministries of Finance and Transport to do so. This led sometimes to a lack of expertise
when facing some of the Concessionaire's requests or in applying concession terms. On
the other hand, the performance of the GOC in this respect is not in any case worse than
that of other governments which have been involved in similar concessions agreements.
GOC's performance however, later on improved as from 2005, and it has since then
fulfilled its financial obligations to CAMRAIL.

138.   The GOC's performance would be rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

139. The performance of the implementation agency, CAMRAIL, is satisfactory.
CAMRAIL was able to overcome various challenges when dealing with the GOC with
regard to financing or budget shortfalls. It provided excellent M&E elements and was
able to implement the project effectively. The M&E system implementation through
UPSI was effective and enabled CAMRAIL to timely provide reports and progress
indicators as required and as previously explained. CAMRAIL however, should have
developed and put on the concession's agenda a comprehensive long term investment
plan, which was understandably lacking until 2003-2004 as it was focusing its attention
in securing a financier's backing. However, afterwards, it should have moved more
quickly towards developing such a plan.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

140. Overall rating here is mostly based on the role of the GOC's actions during the
project preparation and implementation phases. There were internal disconnects and
politically instigated delays that were experienced during negotiations with the
Concessionaire and during the project preparation and implementation. These delays
almost derailed an otherwise satisfactory project.



                                            25
141. The GOC later fulfilled its commitment to the proposed sector reforms by signing
two amendments to the concession contract and paying its accrued debt on passenger
services. It has since then, promptly addressed unforeseen issues emerging from
implementation and also respected new commitments. Both the GOC and the
Concessionaire have seemingly reached a satisfactory implementation and stable
institutional arrangements. The GOC has also created an enabling environment for
CAMRAIL and the beneficiary communities, notably villages along the rail right of way.

6. Lessons Learned

Concession design:

142. Lessons learned in relation to concession set up are the following: (i) use
experiences from similar projects to avoid design pitfalls; (ii) recognize the time needed
to complete the process given the political economy issues involved, which are often
underestimated by transaction advisors and governments, (iii) strike a balance regarding
the likely outcomes of a concession between what a private institution requires with
respect to its profitability and the demands of the government which are to a great extent
often politically driven; (iv) adjust the balance between private and public risk
responsibility to the specific context and (v) as a result avoid any complex and over
design of the concession framework given the fact that concession are very volatile and
requires adjustment, as the parameters are usually not exactly known at concession start.

143. The project preparation experienced two biases which are often found in defining
the concession balance between public and private risk: (i)traffic projections should be
more realistic to avoid any over optimistic expectations, especially considering the fact
that truckers are always ready to readjust transport costs when facing higher competition
from the rail sector. Hence, an appropriate study which gives a fair analysis of the
competitively of these two modes is indispensable; (ii) infrastructure and rolling stock
investment should be reassessed just before concession start as they tend to be
underestimated during the bidding process.

144. The lack of clear PPP regulations with regard to railway concession was a great
handicap. It is therefore recommended that with the experience derived from this project
and other similar projects an appropriate and realistic framework for PPP be developed
first or at least in parallel with the concession design.

145. Passenger services in most of the concessions in SSA require subsidies from the
government and are not the major priority of concessionaire. This can result in (i) deficit
and lack of assurance of financial sustainability for the concessionaire and (ii) neglect of
passenger services activities when not funded by the government. An appropriate
passenger services convention, which defines clear and practical rules should be part of
the concession design from the onset




                                            26
Project implementation:

146. The list of indicators was too ambitious with redundant indicators which were not
all critical to the achievement of the PDO. Attempts were made to modify these but
because of the divergence in views on this by the various stakeholders involved
(concessionaire, government and all lenders), the list was maintained. For other such
projects, list should be simplified early enough and made more realistic to avoid
redundancy and the risk of some indicators not being achieved.

147. In the context of railway concession, institutional development and capacity
building are critical factors to ensure sustainability during and after project. This stood
out clearly as a great need when the GOC was slow in reacting to the Concessionaire's
proposed amendments and programs. Specific expertise in this domain should therefore
be a pre-requisite for GOC's engagement into such ventures. Alternatively, a technical
assistance component not managed by the Concessionaire should be designed as part of
similar projects in order to provide necessary assistance to the GOC during project
implementation rather than only preparation (as was the case here, technical assistance
was provided between 1995 and 1998 during project preparation).

148. Considering that other donors were involved in the project, donor coordination
turned out to be an essential success element for the entire project especially during the
preparation phase. This helped to facilitate the concession process and attracted qualified
bidders with sufficient capital. Future projects should therefore pay greater attention to
enhancing donor coordination.

149. Timely external development assistance contribution to finance large and costly
infrastructure is essential to support PPPs for railway services, which is profitable for the
entire economy but which does not have a very high financial viability. In the specific
case of this project, delays in lenders mobilization did somehow jeopardize the
concession sustainability during its initial years of operations.

Project supervision:

150. Continuous and quality supervision missions by the Bank team which was very
typical of this project are important and critical. This is essential to ensure that steady
progress and effective supervision are maintained to readily address specific needs during
implementation. The necessary adjustments made during implementation to ensure
project objectives were fully made, resulted from: (i) good cooperation between the Bank
team and the GOC, (ii) the sharing of monitoring results, (iii) the re-orientation of actions
and, (iv) the search for improved impact through, reorientation, and innovation.

151. Key lessons learned relating to environmental and social issues includes the need
to prepare a safeguards implementation instrument with clear measureable output
indicators and ensure close supervision with consistent support from the GOC. The
involvement of the Bank's safeguard specialist and the GOC's safeguards related
institutions in the implementation of this project was a great advantage. With growing
concerns about global warming and added emphasis to scale up related mitigation

                                             27
measures, future operations could support these aspects both in project design and in
national transport policies.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(i) Borrower/implementing agencies
(ii) Co financiers
(iii) Other partners and stakeholders


   Not applicable




                                         28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                               Actual/Latest
                                            Appraisal Estimate                                     Percentage of
Components                                                     Estimate (USD
                                            (USD millions)                                         Appraisal
                                                               millions)
 1. EMERGENCY
                                                            21.68                      22.46                104%
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
 2. RAILWAY
INFRASTRUCTURE                                              36.60                      39.00              106.56%
REHABILITATION
 3. RAILWAY EQUIPMENT                                       22.17                      20.83               93.96%
 4. ENVIRONMENT
                                                              5.15                       5.15               100%
ACTIVITIES
Total Project Costs                                         85.60                      87.44              102.10%
*Average exchange rate used is 1USD=550 FCFA

(b) Financing
                                                                       Appraisal Actual/Lates
                                                   Type of             Estimate   Estimate     Percentage
             Source of Funds
                                                  Cofinancing           (USD        (USD      of Appraisal
                                                                       millions)  millions)
 FRANCE: French Agency for
                                                                          10.59              10.55             99.63%
Development
 Borrower* (CAMRAIL invested
37 USD millions that can be
                                                                          34.77              37.00            106.75%
considered as foreign investment
as per the PAD)
 EC: European Investment Bank                                             10.78              10.78              100%
 International Development
                                                                          21.39              21.02             98.26%
Association (IDA)
 Foreign Private Commercial
Sources (PROPARCO: Société de
Promotion et de Participation pour la                                      8.79               8.79              100%
Coopération Economique and Local
Banks*)
TOTAL                                                                     86.60              87.44            102.10%
*Borrower did not make any direct cash investment but CAMRAIL has invested 37 USD millions (excluding the emergency investment
programme)
*Commercial Bank of Cameroon, ECOBANK, CREDIT LYONNAIS




                                                             29
           Annex 2. Outputs by Component

        Objectives                          Key Performance Indicators                                  Status as of June 2009


Sector-Related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:
Create favorable               Railway services fully operated by the private sector       Railway services fully operated by the private
environment for private                                                                    sector
sector development             Continued movement towards privatization.                   Privatization process completed.

Project Development :          ·    Increased freight rail traffic: to previous level by   ·   978 million tons/kilometer
                                    2001- increasing 1.7%/year; 1,047million
1. Improve efficiency and           tons/kilometer
   sustainability of railway
   through private operation   ·    Current liquidity ratio higher than 1.1;               ·   Current liquidity ratio = 1.1;

                               ·    Long-term debt to equity ratio less than 2.0;          ·   Long-term debt to equity ratio = 1.2;
                               ·    Debt service coverage ratio higher than 1.4;           ·   Debt service coverage ratio = 2.1;
                               ·    Staff cost to business turnover ratio less than 30%;   ·   Staff cost to business turnover ratio =24%;

                               ·    Reduction in delays implementation rate of the         ·   Reduction in delays implementation rate of the
                                    transport plan. < 7                                        transport plan = 4.9
2. Reduce burden on public
finance of transport sector
                               Eliminate all transfers to rail subsector except for        Net transfers to Government from Concessionaire
                               compensation for services of a Non-commercial               are positive. (Annual transfers from railways to
                               obligation nature; reverse trend to net inflow.             government: 7,289,521,685FCFA)

Output from each
component:                     ·    Staff productivity UT/staff < 565,000                  ·   Staff productivity UT/staff = 521,422

More efficient work-           ·    Ratio of Staff Costs to turnover < 28%                 ·   Ratio of Staff Costs to turnover = 24%
force/railway management

                               ·    The cumulative length of slowdown in effect for        ·   The cumulative length of slowdown in effect
                                    more than 90 days < 52 km                                  for more than 90 days = 1.1 km
Rehabilitated network
(track renewal)
                                                                                           ·   Number of usable locomotives = 47
                               ·    Number of usable locomotives > 45
                                                                                           ·   Reliability of locomotives (number of
                               ·    Reliability of locomotives (number of breakdown            breakdown per 100 000km = 6 for the CC, 13.
Rehabilitated                       per 100 000km < 6 CC, 13 for the BB 1100, and
Equipment/Improved use of                                                                      for the BB1100, and 10 for the BB1200)
                                    10 for the BB1200)
equipment
                                                                                           ·   Availability of CC locomotives =83%
                               ·    Availability of CC locomotives is =85%
                                                                                           ·   Kilometers per year and per available CC
                               ·    Kilometers per year and per available CC                   locomotive = 97 438 km
                                    locomotive is > 90 000 km (reviewed at MTR)
                                                                                           ·   Wagon turnaround = 4.9 days
                               ·    Wagon turnaround (number of days less or equal
                                    to 7 days)                                             ·   logging and bush meat transport Control
                                                                                               effective
                               ·    Control of logging and bush meat transport
                                                                                           ·   worksites Cleaned and prevented from
                               ·    Cleaning worksites and preventing from pollution           pollution
Improved Environment,          ·    Improved security                                      ·   Improved security in workshops and
Safety and social aspects                                                                      worksites




                                                                       30
Annex 3. Cost Benefit Analysis Summary

(a) Identification of Benefits

1.      The identification of benefits and underlying assumptions are relatively
comparable with the cost benefit analysis at appraisal. The analysis assesses the
economic return and fiscal impact on taxes. It evaluates the corresponding net present
values of project investments at the global project level and compares the internal rates of
return of the pre-project and post-project situations. In addition, the concession reduced
the fiscal impact of the state enterprise, by reducing subsidies and investment but
increased taxes paid by concessionaire (42.77 FCFA billion collected between 2002 and
2009.see Table 2). Overall, the operational and financial performance of the concession
improved, especially in the case of financial ratios obtained as shown in figure 2.

2.       At appraisal, a full cost-benefit analysis was used to assess the economic return of
the concession investment program over the 20-year concession period. The benefits that
were quantified for the cost benefit analysis were essentially the reductions in operating
costs occasioned by the project. Savings were calculated by comparing the relevant
values without and with the project. These relevant values concerned mainly freight
traffic for which rail has an economic advantage over road transport. Implementation of
the concession program, which consisted of rehabilitation of the railway tracks and
rolling stock that was operated by a private company, increased railway transport
productivity and improved service quality resulting in a cost-effective transport service to
the whole economy.

3.      Additional benefits, which were not quantified are: avoiding the liquidation of the
railway company thereby preserving an important infrastructure asset; turning rail
transport from a heavily subsidized activity to a commercially profitable one relieving the
fiscal burden on the national budget; and alleviating road congestion and improving road
safety as freight shipment transfers from road to rail.

4.    The operating costs of the company were taken from the financial projections.
Road vehicle operating costs were derived from recent transport sector studies in
Cameroon.

5.      Finally, investment eligibility criteria required a minimum ERR of 10percent to
be financed. Net present value has been determined for various discount rates and
sensitivity analysis was conducted by switching values of critical elements of the
concession program.


6.       To ensure consistency, a cost benefit analysis was carried out at the project end
with similar assumptions to compare the situations before and after project situation. The
initial analysis which focused more on financial impact, involved no traditional economic
analysis. A 10% discounted rate was used in the calculations of the various NPV but a


                                             31
sensitivity analysis has been carried out with a 12% discounted rate to reflect current
practice in the region.

7.      A typical economic analysis for such a concession would have required the
composition of several data. This unfortunately was not part of the data collected during
project preparation and execution. Nonetheless, the cost benefit analysis outlined
sufficient elements to justify the profitability of the concession.


(b) Main Assumptions, Methodology and Data

8.      With the project: Freight traffic would increase by an average 2.6 percent a year.
Commercial passenger traffic would grow by an average 2.3 percent during the first four
years and stabilize at about 1 223 000 passenger-kilometer a year. Passenger service for
isolated rural areas (Non-commercial obligation) will be maintained for the first two and
a half years to allow for construction and rehabilitation of rural roads to serve these areas.

9.     Without the project: The costs of all railway services are estimated to be 15
percent higher than with project. This estimation was based upon a study carried out by
REGIFERCAM. It is assumed that the national railway company would discontinue its
operations in 2008 (i.e., ten years from 1998) by which time, given current trends, the
company would be virtually bankrupt. As a result, traffic demand will gradually be
diverted to road transport which would then be the only transport system in Cameroon in
2008. Freight traffic and passenger services would decrease by an annual average of 10
percent during the first five years, and then they will decrease faster until all railway
services close at the end of the tenth year. Non-Commercial Obligation will be provided
over the next five years.

10.     Methodology and data collection: The model used in the analysis typifies the
average used in similar projects in SSA. Benefits, net of loss, and costs incurred by the
concession, were computed from data collected by CAMRAIL. From the representative
economic model, the net benefits for the concession were valued with respect to the total
investment. The cost benefit analysis computed net cash flows and equally average
incremental incomes. From these, the model then aggregated to obtain a global
incremental benefit, computed on a yearly basis. Yearly aggregated benefits of the model
for the concession are finally related to total annual project costs. This model detailed the
investment costs and production returns, and allowed a cost-benefit analysis at project
level, with corresponding Internal Rate of Return (IRR). The analysis benefitted from
detailed data collected between 2003 and 2009, and efforts to reconcile baseline
information. The new data collected by CAMRAIL was mainly through its M&E unit.
Some information comes from detailed socio-economic studies carried out by GOC hired
consultants, and in a few instances, from observations and discussions during the ICR
team field visit in November 2009.




                                             32
                  (c) Results of the Cost Benefit Analysis

                  11.     The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) of the concession program, based only on the
                  quantified benefits (transport savings), is estimated at 39.6 percent (Projected for 20 years
                  of concession including 10 years of effectiveness) compared to 26 percent at appraisal.
                  The net present value (NPV) at a 10 percent discount rate amounts to around CFA francs
                  58.7 billion (Projected for 20 years of concession including 10 years of effectiveness)
                  against 58.0 billion at appraisal. If only the 10 effective years of the concession is
                  considered, this analysis gives an IRR of 38 percent with a NPV at a 10 percent discount
                  rate of CFA francs 25.0 billion. A sensitivity analysis at a 12 percent discounted rate,
                  gives a NPV of CFA francs 41.8 billion and an IRR of 39.62 percent for the period of the
                  10 effective years of the project. These indicators demonstrate the strong economic
                  viability of the project. Most economic benefits are generated by cotton, petroleum
                  products, and general cargo traffic. Passenger traffic ought to be carried by road as rail
                  passenger transport more expensive.

                  Table1: Present Value of Flows and Fiscal Impact
                                           Present value of Flow-
                                                                                       Fiscal Impact on Taxes
                                             Economic Analysis
                                                        After Project                                 After Project
                                                        (Projected for 20
                                      Before Project   years including 10
                                                                                   Before Project     (After 10 years of
                                                                                                        effectiveness)
                                                        years of effectiveness)
                  Net Benefits:                                                      On sales              On sales
                  discounted at                                                      23,600                33,022
                  10 percent                                                        On import             On import
                  (CFAF Million)                                                      5,100                 2,539
                                          58,026              58,596                Total Budget          Total Budget
                                                                                      surplus               surplus
                                                                                      37,440                45,665
                                                                                      (NPV at               (NPV at
                                                                                     10percent)            10percent)
                  IRR:                 26.0 percent      39.62 percent

                  Figure 1 - CAMRAIL Traffic volume in TKM (The values for 2009 ares up to June 30th)
                   1,200
                   1,000
millions of TKM




                     800
                     600
                     400
                     200
                         0
                             2000          2003             2005
                                                              33                  2007             2009
     Fiscal Impact

     12.     The fiscal impact has been assessed by evaluating the differential of financial
     flows to the national budget with and without the project. The following assumptions are
     considered: tax structure and duties on transport activities and imported goods are
     unchanged over the next ten years; based on current practice, no subsidies are paid for
     operational losses as long as compensation for public service (passenger transport) is
     settled. Liquidation cost of REGIFECAM (with and without project) and severance
     payment for staff reduction is borne by the national budget. The main taxes considered
     are on sales (traffic revenue) and imported spare parts and equipment. Sales of rolling
     stock, concession fees paid CAMRAIL are positive financial flows.

     13.     Based on the above assumptions and those considered for the business plan of
     CAMRAIL, the fiscal impact is estimated at a net present value (10 percent discount rate)
     of CFAF 45.67 billion for the first ten years of the concession. The main fiscal surplus
     incurs from: sales taxes, duties on imports of spare parts and equipment for the Priority
     Investment Program (PIP), and infrastructure and rolling stock leasing revenue for the
     first two years. The rolling stock was sold to CAMRAIL in 2001 for a total amount of
     CFAF 24.26 billion.

     Table 2: Taxes Paid by CAMRAIL and Concession Fees (in millions of CFA francs)

                                                                                           2009
              2002       2003       2004      2005       2006       2007       2008        (six
                                                                                          months)


Taxes paid
by
           2,577.49 5,301.41 6,827.70 6,152.41 6,384.37 6,969.36 5,789.52                   2,766.33
CAMRAIL
to the GOC

Concession
              953.63 1,713.26 2,077.02 1,500.00 1,500.00 1,500.00 1,500.00                 1,000.00
fees
 TOTAL       3,531.12 7,014.67 8,904.72 7,652.41 7,884.37 8,469.36 7,289.52                3,766.33




                                                34
Table 3: Cash Flow Statement
(Cash flow from operations)
                                                     31/12/2002
Millions of                                                                                                                                   2009
                 6/30/2000   6/30/2001   30/062002      (T :      37986.00   12/31/2004   12/31/2005   12/31/2006   12/31/2007   12/31/2008
CFA Francs                                                                                                                                    (30,06,09)
                                                       6mois)

Net profit (1)        0.00     449.77     1,912.66      818.32      735.99     1,387.04     2,111.36     2,744.02     2,855.72     2,130.64      575.71
Depreciation
                  1,421.71    4,102.76    3,555.48     2,372.98   5,109.21     5,096.97     6,068.03     6,881.44     7,311.00     7,873.58    4,038.21
(2)

Cash Flows
from
                  1,421.71    4,552.53    5,468.14     3,191.30   5,845.20     6,484.02     8,179.39     9,625.46    10,166.72    10,004.22     4,613.92
operations
(3)=(1+2)

Debt service

Principal
                      0.00    2,532.45    4,010.46      936.11    4,074.65     2,569.00     8,555.97     3,360.99     4,539.71     5,872.19    6,740.02
repayment (4)

Changes in
working
                   472.63    -3,484.10   -3,268.14    12,468.36   1,287.63     2,403.75    -5,622.46      323.18     -1,039.41     1,193.93    5,228.64
capital other
than cash (5)


Cash flow
available for
capital            949.08     5,504.18    4,725.82   -10,213.17     482.93     1,511.27     5,245.88     5,941.29     6,666.43     2,938.10    -7,354.74
expenditures(
6)=(3-4-5)




                                                                        35
 Capital
 expenditure     11,264.39   32,444.93    13,363.97     5,629.07    16,532.00    14,442.59     7,412.12      6,194.13      9,232.72    9,566.72     4,543.11
 (7)

 Financing               -           -                                      -
                                          -8,638.15   -15,842.24                -12,931.33    -2,166.24          -252.84   -2,566.29   -6,628.62   -11,897.85
 gap (8)=(6-7)   10,315.31   26,940.75                              16,049.07

 Cash at
 beginning of         0.00    -4,275.13   -5,306.82   -11,866.48    -6,665.08    -8,111.59   -10,237.88     -5,852.03      -1,244.99   -1,158.45    -3,128.60
 year

 Cash at end                                      -
                 -4,275.13    -5,306.82                 -6,665.08   -8,111.59   -10,237.88    -5,852.03     -1,244.99      -1,158.45   -3,128.60   -7,870.46
 of year                                  11,866.48

 Debt service
 Coverage                                                                3.10         2.40         1.40             3.00       2.20        1.80         2.00
 ratio


Cash flows from operations/long and medium term principal repayment- Financing year ending June 30 until 2002,




                                                                           36
14.     The cash statement is negative at the beginning of the concession because closing
of the financing of the investment plan was delayed and CAMRAIL had to finance on its
own resources part of the plan.

15.    Situation significantly improved in 2002 and 2003 as cash flow operations
increases and some of the past investment enjoyed retro-active financing by lenders.

Financial Analysis

16.     The target value of the current liquidity ratio at appraisal was to be >= 1. With a
current value of 1.1, this ratio shows that CAMRAIL is now able to pay back its short-
term liabilities with its short-term assets. It therefore gives a sense of the efficiency of a
CAMRAIL's operating cycle and its ability to turn its product into cash.
CAMRAIL has also achieved its primary objective to set a debt coverage ratio superior to
1.4; with a value of 1.8 at the end of December 2008. This good benchmark shows that
the company is now able to produce enough cash to cover its debt payments.
While in the early years of the concession CAMRAIL has been aggressive in financing
its growth with debt (volatile earnings as a result of the additional interest expense) with
a Long term debt to equity ratio of 2.2, it seems that by June 2009 this ratio stabilized at
1.2, achieving therefore the target value at appraisal.

17.     On the other hand, while the international economical crisis has heavily impacted
on CAMRAIL's traffic volume, the company's financial performance is rated
satisfactory.

Figure 2: Financial Performance

            3.5

              3

            2.5

              2

            1.5

              1

            0.5

              0
                   2000       2001      2003   2004      2005        2006    2007      2008      2009
                  Current/liquidity ratio      Debt coverage ratio          Long term debt/equity ratio




                                               37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
Names                      Title                            Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Kingson Khan Apara         Sr Transport. Spec.              AFTTR
Amine Bennis               Temporary                        AFTTR
Kristine M. Ivarsdotter    Senior Social Development Spec   LCSSO
Alain L. Labeau            Program Coordinator              AFTTR
Emeran Serge M. Menang
                           Forestry Specialist              AFTEN
Evouna
Kouami Hounsinou
                           Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Messan
Helene Simonne Ndjebet
                           Operations Analyst               AFCC1
Yaka
Fridolin Ondobo            Financial Management Specialist AFTFM
Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo   Lead Transport Specialist       AFTTR
C. Sanjivi Rajasingham     Sector Manager                  AFTTR
Peter Ngwa Taniform        Transport Specialist            AFTTR
Nadège L. Thadey           Office Manager                  AFTTR
                                                           AFMCM
Lydie Yangouot             Language Program Assistant
                                                           ­ HIS
 Wycliffe Okoth            Temporary                       AFTTR
Cedric Loic Allio          Temporary                       AFTTR
Irene Marguerite Nnomo
                           Program Assistant                AFTTR
Ayinda-Mah
Pierrette Manfoumbe
                           Program Assistant                AFTTR
Moussodou




                                          38
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY98                                                                           37.66
FY99                                                                          151.80
FY00                           8                                               25.31
FY01                           16                                              54.62
FY02                           16                                              81.20
FY03                                                                            0.00
FY04                                                                            0.00
FY05                                                                            0.00
FY06                                                                            0.00
FY07                                                                            0.00
FY08                                                                            0.00

Total:                         40                                             350.59
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                           0.00
  FY99                                                                           4.31
  FY00                         4                                                 5.35
  FY01                         1                                                 4.85
  FY02                         4                                                15.42
  FY03                         9                                                44.27
  FY04                         26                                               59.39
  FY05                         37                                               95.98
  FY06                         18                                               60.14
  FY07                         15                                               53.40
  FY08                         15                                               59.27
  FY09                         16                                                0.00

                          Total:145                                           402.38




                                        39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                      40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not applicable




                                 41
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                &UpGLW  &0

             R                                             P                   B             M

                     N




    Méthodologie :

    Précisions   = information juste mais pas complète.
    Commentaires = analyse légèrement différente.
    Point de vue = désaccord.

    Nota :
    Sigles et abréviations (voir document de la Banque Mondiale)
    Eléments du projets (voir document de la Banque Mondiale)

Sommaire :

Contexte du projet, objectifs de développement et conception............... Error! Bookmark not defined.
Facteurs clés affectant la mise en oeuvre et les résultats ......................... Error! Bookmark not defined.
Evaluation des résultats........................................................................... Error! Bookmark not defined.
Evaluation des performances de la banque et de l'emprunteur............... Error! Bookmark not defined.




                                                     42
  Contexte du projet, objectifs de développement et
conception
      1.3    Contexte du projet lors de l'évaluation ( Précisions)
  La durée actuelle de la concession est fixée à 30 ans ( nouveau terme de la concession
  31 décembre 2034). A l'issue de chaque période de cinq (5) ans, l'Etat et le
  Concessionnaire peuvent décider de prolonger de cinq (5) ans supplémentaires le
  nouveau terme initial de la Concession.
  Les termes de la Convention de Concession peuvent être renégociés à cette occasion.
  Concernant l'inefficacité, l'absence de rentabilité et les performances médiocres de
  l'ex-Régifercam soulignées par le rapport de la BM, elles peuvent se résumer à
  travers les performances de l'ex-Régifercam comparées à celles de Camrail :

      1.4    Flux financiers Etat vers l'ex-Régifercam et quelques chiffres clés
  ·   Pendant les deux exercices de l'ex-Régifercam 1996/1997 et 1997/1998, les
      créances sont passées de 20 607 millions FCFA à 24 546 millions FCFA
      (créances essentiellement constituées des arriérés vis-à-vis des administrations
      fiscales, pensions retraites, sécurité sociale, etc), alors que la subvention Etat au
      titre du service omnibus uniquement est passée de 2 574 millions FCFA à 2 418
      millions FCFA sur la même période
  ·   Les dettes à long et moyen terme de l'ex-Régifercam sont passées entre
      1996/1997 et 1997/1998 respectivement de 47 631 millions FCFA à 47 204
      millions FCFA
  ·   Le montant de la subvention d'exploitation accordée par l'Etat à l'ex -
      Régifercam a atteint en 1990/1991 le chiffre record de 11 milliards de FCFA
  ·   Le trafic marchandises moyen entre 1989 et 1998 est de 730 millions de tonnes-
      km
  ·   Le chiffre d'affaires moyen de l'ex-Régifercam entre 1989 et 1998 est de 22
      milliards FCFA
  ·   Le salaire moyen mensuel d'un agent de l'ex-Régifercam en 1998 est de 245 000
      FCFA.

      1.5    Flux financiers CAMRAIL vers l'Etat et quelques chiffres clés
  ·   Les flux financiers entre L'Etat et Camrail se sont inversés, entre le 1er avril1999
      et le 30 juin 2009, Camrail a versé 98 milliards FCFA à l'Etat et a reçu en retour
      36 milliards de FCFA, ce qui fait un solde positif pour l'Etat de 62 milliards
      FCFA.
  ·   En plus des 60 milliards versés en impôts directs, Camrail a collecté et versé à
      l'Etat 12 milliards depuis 1999.
  ·   Le trafic marchandise moyen sur 10 ans est de 1018 millions de tonnes-km
  ·   Le chiffre d'affaires CAMRAIL en 2008 est de 51 milliards FCFA


                                           43
·   Le salaire moyen mensuel d'un agent de CAMRAIL est aujourd'hui évalué à
    400 000 FCFA.

    1.6    Acquisition du matériel roulant par Camrail :
Le statut juridique des matériels roulants a évolué du principe de la location-vente en
1999 (Etat propriétaire du matériel roulant), pour la levée de l'option de vente à
tempérament et transfert de propriété à CAMRAIL, avec nantissement au profit de
l'Etat, et suppression des intérêts de mutation courant octobre 2000. A ce jour, le
matériel roulant de l'ex-Régifercam a été racheté par CAMRAIL sur la base d'un prêt
accordé par l'Etat, pour un coût global évalué à 24 milliards FCFA.




    1.7    Implication du groupe de la Banque Mondiale.

Composantes originales. ( Précisions)
En Avril 1999, les Bailleurs de fonds n'avaient pas finalisé leur intention de prêt par
un engagement formel.
Devant la pression des événements (grève pour retard de paiement des salaires,
difficultés financières pour respecter les engagements de la Régifercam), Camrail
était obligée de recourir à des découverts bancaires et autres crédits spots pour
financer ses investissements à long terme, avec un impact réel sur sa trésorerie.
Malgré ces difficultés réelles de démarrage, Camrail a investi 102 milliards FCFA en
10 ans, soit une moyenne de 10 milliards FCFA chaque année.
Le Programme d'Investissements d'Urgence (PIU) qui aurait dû prendre fin en 2002,
a été remplacé par le Programme d'Investissement Complémentaires (PIC) nettement
plus ambitieux.

Autres changements significatifs (Commentaires et précisions)
Nous pensons qu'il n'est pas indiqué que le bailleur de fonds prétende interpréter
l'adhésion ou non d'une opinion publique.
La Convention Passagers de 2003 redéfinit les règles et les moyens de compensation,
la méthodologie de calcul du déficit voyageurs, les pénalités à supporter par le
Concessionnaire concernant les retards, la régularité, la propreté et la sécurité.
Désormais, les notions de voyageurs commerciaux et voyageurs conventionnés
disparaissent pour céder place aux « voyageurs » tout court. Cette convention a défini
un nouveau plan de voyageurs, les horaires de départ et d'arrivée, ainsi que la
composition des rames et des équipes à bord de chaque ligne prévue.

L'Avenant N°1 annonce les premiers signes de partage des risques entre le
concessionnaire et l'Etat, qui ont permis de garantir la viabilité financière de la
concession à court terme. L'Etat et CAMRAIL ont convenu de procéder aux travaux
de confortement de la voie entre Batchenga et Ka'a (126 km) sur le Transcam II,

                                        44
entre Dibamba et Makondo (66 km) sur le Transcam I. A ce titre, l'Etat s'est engagé à
mobiliser un financement à caractère concessionnel pour l'exécution desdits travaux.
Le service de la dette (principal et intérêts) lié à ce financement demeurera à la charge
de l'Etat jusqu'à la fin de l'année 2015. Les montants annuels correspondant au
service de la dette seront affectés par l'Etat au financement de nouveaux travaux
d'infrastructures ferroviaires sous la forme d'une subvention d'équipement accordée
au Concessionnaire.

Trois réallocations des ressources ont été approuvées par la Banque pendant
l'exécution du projet ( en 2004, en 2006 et en 2008). Ces réallocations visaient
essentiellement à compenser les pertes de change subies par le projet d'une part, et
d'autres part à affecter les ressources en fonction des priorités qui ont été redéfinies
pendant l'exécution du projet. A ce titre, 2 300 000 DTS de la catégorie du non -
alloué ont été entièrement réalloués à d'autres catégories de dépenses.
A la clôture du projet, la perte de change enregistrée s'élève globalement à 2 127
millions de F CFA.

Un Comité ad-hoc chargé de l'examen des projections financières CAMRAIL 2006-
2020, en vue de l'évaluation des financements pour la réalisation des Infrastructures
Ferroviaires, a été mis sur pied par le Ministre des Transports, par décision N°
751/D/MINT/CAB du 26 Avril 2007 ; l'analyse de la version A des projections
financières 2006-2020, avec les travaux de Renouvellement des Infrastructures
Ferroviaires et du matériel roulant à la charge seule du Concessionnaire, a permis de
conclure que celui-ci sera dans l'impossibilité de faire face à ses engagements
financiers et sera entraîné inexorablement dans un processus d'endettement
insupportable et vers sa liquidation à court terme.

Dans le souci d'une répartition équilibrée des responsabilités, les dispositions de
l'Avenant N°2 prévoient pour le quinquennat 2009-2013 le renouvellement des
infrastructures ferroviaires à la charge de l'Etat, la maintenance et l'aménagement des
infrastructures ferroviaires, le renouvellement des matériels roulants marchandises, la
logistique administrative, la signalisation, l'énergie, les télécommunications, les
bâtiments industriels à la charge de Camrail.

La Redevance fixe annuelle de la concession a été revalorisée et forfaitisée à un
montant de 2 milliards FCFA pour les exercices 2009-2013.
En plus, Camrail verse une Redevance variable d'Investissements de Renouvellement
des Infrastructures Ferroviaires (RIRIF) égale à cinquante pour cent (50 %) du
résultat net avant impôt de l'exercice N-1.Respect des normes fiduciaire et
environnementale
Les engagements financiers de l'Etat en matière d'investissements ferroviaires sur la
période 2009 ­ 2020 s'élèvent à 99 milliards FCFA, dont 48 milliards FCFA au titre
du Programme 2009-2013.
Les engagements financiers de Camrail sur la période 2009 ­ 2020 s'élèvent à 158
milliards FCFA, dont 67 milliards FCFA au titre du Programme 2009-2013.



                                         45
    1.8    Evolutions des actions sociales ( Précisions)
·   La couverture médicale porte sur la prise en charge de 11 184 personnes (agents
    et familles).
·   Trois (03) canaux sont utilisés avec les Syndicats dans le cadre du dialogue social
    au sein de l'entreprise, à savoir la tenue d'un registre des doléances, la tenue des
    réunions mensuelles des délégués du personnel et des commissions paritaires.
·   L'impact des avancées sociales se chiffre globalement à 3,7 milliards FCFA et
    concerne précisément la revalorisation de la grille salariale du personnel, l'octroi
    de la gratification de fin d'année, la mise en place d'une assurance retraite
    complémentaire, la subvention au titre de l'Association Sportive Camrail etc.
·   Les anciens cheminots partis volontairement ont bénéficié des contrats de sous-
    traitance portant sur les travaux d'entretien de la voie ferrée, du matériel roulant,
    de nettoyage des bâtiments, etc.
·   La 7ème campagne de dépistage du personnel Camrail s'est tenue en mai-juin 2009
    avec un taux de participation de 56%, la séroprévalence cumulée est de 2,45%
    contre 4,7% en 2002. Camrail distribue 12 000 préservatifs/mois sur tout le
    réseau. La formation de neuf (09) médecins en prescription antirétrovireaux, dix
    (10) pairs éducateurs conseillers, quatre vingt sept (87) pairs éducateurs. Une
    prise en charge psychothérapeutique à 100%.

    1.9    Sécurité et environnement ( Précisions)
·   Les principales actions de sécurité au travail portent sur le suivi des réunions de
    sensibilisation de sécurité dans les Directions centrales et les Coordinations, le
    suivi des statistiques d'accidents, des tests d'alcool et de drogue, etc.
·   Les principales réalisations sur le plan environnement portent sur la revitalisation
    des camps des travailleurs, les travaux d'abattage, la gestion des déchets, la mise
    en place des procédures d'hygiène et de sécurité, l'approvisionnement en eau
    potable, la mise en oeuvre du plan de gestion environnement et sécurité.
·   Une politique sociale avec les riverains du rail pour la surveillance de
    l'équipement ferroviaire afin d'éviter les actes de malveillance et de vandalisme a
    été mise sur pied. En retour, ces riverains reçoivent de Camrail près de 400
    millions FCFA par an au titre de ces prestations supervisées par la Coordination
    des Chefs de village.
·   Camrail a réalisé la construction de huit (08) puits et la réhabilitation de huit (08)
    forages, la construction des salles de classe à Mbitom.

    1.10   Facteurs clés ayant affecté la mise en oeuvre et les résultats
    1.11   Qualité à l'entrée ( Commentaires)
La lacune a été l'absence d'examens détaillés du plan d'investissement élaboré et
proposé par la Régifercam, qui a entraîné une sous-estimation des prévisions
d'investissement et les deux Avenants signés en début de concession qui modifient
les données de l'Annexe 11 de la Convention de concession de base, reprenant le
programme d'investissements des six (06) premières années


                                         46
   1.12    Mise en oeuvre (Point de vue)
Camrail avait mis en place une Unité de Programmation et de Suivi des
Investissements (UPSI) avec l'ensemble des compétences nécessaires à la gestion
d'un projet. Cette entité a existé jusqu'à la fin de la passation des marchés du
programme initial.

    1.13 Facteurs hors de portée de l'agence d'exécution ou du gouvernement
(Précisions)
La variartion des droits de tirage spéciaux (DTS) reste problématique, la perte de
change du projet au 30 juin 2009 est de 2 127 745 661 F CFA, avec l'incertitude de
ne jamais savoir ce qu'il vous reste à dépenser.

Evaluation des résultats
   1.14    Pertinence des objectifs, conception et mise en oeuvre ( Précisions)
   1.15    Résultats de Camrail

Salaire moyen mensuel du personnel :
Le salaire mensuel moyen d'un agent a presque doublé, passant de 245 000 FCFA
(1997-1998 ex-Régifercam) à 400 000 FCFA (CAMRAIL) en 2008.

Trafic voyageurs :
Les réalisations CAMRAIL en voyageurs-kilomètres (379 millions V-Km) ont connu
une progression satisfaisante, de l'ordre de près de 34%, comparées au niveau
d'activité du dernier exercice 1997-1998 de l'ex-Régifercam (283 millions V-Km).

Trafic marchandises :
Les réalisations de CAMRAIL s'élèvent en moyenne sur 10 ans à 1 018 millions
Tonnes-km, comparées au niveau d'activité de l'ex ­ Régifercam qui se situait en
moyenne entre 1989 et 1998 à 730 millions Tonnes-km, soit une augmentation de
39%.

Investissements réalisés par Camrail :
· En Avril 1999, les Bailleurs de fonds n'avaient pas finalisé leur intention de prêt
   par un engagement formel.
· Camrail était obligée de recourir à des découverts bancaires et autres crédits spots
   pour financer ses investissements à long terme, avec un impact sur sa trésorerie.
· Malgré ces difficultés réelles de démarrage, Camrail a investi 102 milliards FCFA
   en 10 ans, soit une moyenne de 10 milliards FCFA chaque année.



Inversion des flux entre l'Etat et Camrail :


                                        47
   ·      Alors que l'ex-Régifercam percevait jusqu'à 11 milliards FCFA par an de
          subvention d'exploitation de la part de l'Etat, à laquelle il faut ajouter le non-
          versement à l'Etat de 24 546 millions FCFA au titre des arriérés vis-à-vis des
          administrations fiscales, pensions retraites, sécurité sociale, etc, Camrail a inversé
          les flux financiers avec l'Etat. Depuis l'avènement de la Concession au 30 juin
          2009, Camrail a versé en cumul à l'Etat 98 milliards FCFA au titre des impôts,
          taxes et redevances, et a reçu en retour 36 milliards FCFA, soit un différentiel en
          faveur de l'Etat de 62 milliards FCFA, plus 12 milliards FCFA au titre des impôts
          et taxes retenus à la source et reversés à l'Etat.

    La gestion de l'infrastructure
Les efforts constants de Camrail ont permis de ramener le nombre de déraillements en
voie principale de 125 au lendemain de la Concession (année 2000) à 38 déraillements à
fin août 2009.

Evaluation des performances de la Banque et de
l'Emprunteur
   La synthèse ci-dessous exprime de manière claire l'atteinte des objectifs et des
   performances de Camrail, ainsi que le caractère très satisfaisant de l'agence
   d'exécution.

       160000                                                                             Investissements Camrail
                                                                                                 2009-2020

       140000


       120000
                                               Synthèse Financière                   Investissements Etat
                                                                                          2009-2020

       100000


        80000               Flux Financiers
                           Etat vers Camrail

                                                                       C.A Camrail
        60000


        40000
                                                   C.A ex-Régifercam

        20000


           0


       -20000           Flux Financiers
                   Etat vers ex-Regifercam

       -40000




                                                           48
1200
                     Marchandise Camrail en
                       Tonnes-Km moyen
                          (1999-2008)


1000       Marchandise
          ex-Régifercam
       en Tonnes-Km moyen
           (1989-1999)
                                                                       Synthèse Technique et sociale
 800




 600

                                                           Voyageurs-kilomètres
                                                                 Camrail                          Salaire moyen Camrail

                                    Voyageurs-kilomètres
 400
                                       ex-Régifercam                              Salaire moyen
                                                                                  ex-Régifercam
                                                                                                               Nbre déraillements
                                                                                                                  année 2000
 200
                                                                                                                                    Nbre déraillements
                                                                                                                                        Août 2009



  0




                                                                49
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Agence Française de Developpement (AFD)

L'AFD partage globalement les analyses et conclusions de ce rapport bien documenté.
Elle suggère quelques compléments d'informations ou interrogations nuançant un peu les
appréciations positives :
    1. le chapitre sur le montage du projet devrait évoquer le plan social qui a précédé la
       mise en concession, faisant suite à une politique de réduction d'effectifs conduite
       depuis assez longtemps par la REGIFERCAM. Ce plan social qui comprenait le
       versement d'indemnités de départ et la « normalisation » du régime de retraites du
       personnel ex statutaire a été pour beaucoup dans la réussite financière de la
       concession. De mémoire il a (notamment) été financé par un don du FED, un prêt
       concessionnel d'ajustement de l'AFD, et l'IDA (en tout cas le différentiel de
       rétrocession du crédit pour le concessionnaire, en configuration initiale). Il y a eu
       néanmoins, des soucis sur le fonctionnement et la pérennité du Fonds couvrant les
       retraites des ex statutaires.
    2. le trafic fret qui est le coeur de métier de CAMRAIL s'essouffle depuis plusieurs
       années : chute en tonnage (en revanche amélioration du mix avec davantage de
       marchandises « riches »), compensé par une hausse du parcours moyen de sorte
       que le trafic en t-km, après une belle hausse les premières années de concession,
       stagne maintenant. L'explication officielle de CAMRAIL est, dans un contexte de
       demande excédentaire, le manque de matériel roulant, surtout locomotives
       (explication qui semble corroborée par le bon score de la rotation des wagons et
       l'assez bon score des parcours annuels moyens par locomotive) mais on peut
       penser qu'il y a aussi des problèmes d'organisation : à tout le moins des
       investigations indépendantes seraient utiles. Ce sujet semble relativement critique
       pour CAMRAIL dans un environnement de concurrence accrue du transport
       routier résultant de l'amélioration, lente mais réelle et inéluctable, du réseau
       routier.
    3. le traitement du trafic voyageurs reste un problème pendant. La convention
       voyageurs entre CAMRAIL et l'Etat de 2003 n'offre pas un cadre régulatoire et
       incitatif adéquat. Le sujet est politisé par l'Etat et très sensible dans l'opinion
       publique. Les services assurées par CAMARAIL à titre d'OSP restent de qualité
       médiocre.




                                            50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

List of Supporting Document are:

1. Project Implementation Plan

2. Pre-project Economic Analysis

3. Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) (December 2001)

4. CAMRAIL Investment program and Business Plan

5. Environmental Assessment (EA) November 1998 prepared by Buursink Consultants

6. BURGEAP Environmental Audit, June 1999.

7. Environment & Engineering Services Douala, 2000.

8. Rapid Social Survey, August 2001.

9. End of project audit report by Unversal Consulting, June 2009

10. Final Draft of Borrower's completion report, by GEREA GRETA, November 2009




                                           51
            MALI                                      10°                                            20°                                                 12°                                                                          14°                                                            16°

                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by
                                         NIGER                                                                                         the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake          Chad
                                                                                                                                       World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                       colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                       any other information shown
                                                                                                                    SUDAN              on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                       the part of The World Bank
                                                                                             CHAD                                      Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                       legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                       or any endorsement or
           BENIN                                                                                                                       acceptance of such
           10°                                                                                                          10°            boundaries.
                             Nig                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kousséri
                                   er   NIGERIA
                                                        e                                                                                               0               40           80         120              160 Kilometers
                                                     nu                                                                            12°                                                                                                                                                                                  12°
                                                Be

                                                                                                                                                        0          20          40          60     80             100 Miles
                                                                                     CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cha
                                                      CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C H A D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ri
                Gulf   of    Guinea                                Yaoundé
                                                                                                                     U e le
                        EQUATORIAL
                                                                                                         C on go                                                                                                                                    EXTREME
                          GUINEA                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NORD
                  SÃO TOMÉ
                 AND PRÍNCIPE                                                                        DEM. REP.
           0°                                                                CONGO                      OF                0°                                                                                                    Mokolo
                                                            GABON                                     CONGO                                                                                                                                             Bogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Maroua

                                                      10°                                            20°
                                                                                                                                                                    NIGERIA                                                                                             Yagoua

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kaélé
                                                                             10°
           10°                                                                                                                                                                                                               Guider                                                                                     10°


                                                                       CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            M ay o Ke bi                                                 La
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              go
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ne
                                 RAILWAY CONCESSIONING PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                     oué
                                                                                                                                                                               Ben              Garoua
                                                                            RAILROADS



                                                                            SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      NORD
                                                                            DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Guibjiba
                                                                            PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Poli                                Tcholliré
                                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                            UNPAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Fa
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ro
           8°                                                               PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8°

                                                                            RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                             Vi n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mounguel




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       re
                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                        Tignére                                         Ngaoundere



                                                                                                                                                                                          ADAMAOUA
                       NIGERIA                                                                                                                 Banyo

                                                                                                         Nkambe                                                                                                                                     Meiganga
                                                                                                                                                                    Malarba
                                                                                   NORD -                                                                                Tibati
                                                                                   Wumo
                                                                                                                                                      am                                         Lake
                                                                                     OUEST                                                       Mb                                             Assom
                                                                                                         Kumbo
           6°                                                  Nbengwi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6°
                                                                                     Bamenda          Lake
                                                      Mamfe                                          Bambili                                                                                                                          Garoua Boulai
                                                                                                                   Foumban
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dje
                                                                                                                                                                                                           rem
                                                                    Dschang
                                                             Mu




                                                                                              Bafoussam                                                                                                                                     Ndokayo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lom
                                            Nguti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CENTRAL
                                                              ngo




                                                                                              OUEST
                                                                            Bafang                 Bangangté
                                        SUD -
                                    Mundemba
                                                            Supé                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AFRICAN
                                                                              Nkongsamba                                                              CENTRE
                                        OUEST                                                                                                                                                                    Bélabo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kadei




                                                                                                                               Bafia
                                           Kumba
                                                                                                                                                                             Nanga                                              Bertoua
                                                                              Yabassi                                                        Ntuj                            Eboko                                                                    Batouri
                                                                                                                     Monatélé                                                                                                Doume
                                          Buea                              LITTORAL
                             Idenao
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Abong Mbang                                          Ndelélé                                                  4°
           4°                                               Douala                                                                         Yaoundé
                                        Limbe                                                                                                                                                                                          EST
                                                                                   Edéa
                                                                                                                                                                        Akonolinga

                                                                                        Ny                                              Mbalmayo                                                                                                           Yokadouma
                                                                                             ong



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lomié
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       um




                Gulf        of   Guinea                                                                                                Sangmélima                                                                               Dja
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ba




                                                                    Kribi                                  Ebolowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sangha




                                                                                                                                  SUD
                             EQUATORIAL                                                        Nt
                                                                                                    em

                               GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 31784




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Muloundou
           2°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ok
                                                                                                                                                      GABON
MAY 2002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C O N G O
                                                                             10°                                                                         12°                                                                          14°
