                                                Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                                Report No: 26266-AM




                                   PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ON A

                                            PROPOSEDCREDIT

            INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR 13.2 MILLION(US$19.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                                  FORAN

                          EDUCATION QUALITY AND RELEVANCE PROJECT

                                 INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOF
                             THE EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM

                                             December 18,2003




HumanDevelopment Sector Unit
Europeand CentralAsia Region




This documenthas a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 22,2003)
                           Currency Unit = Dram (AMD)
                              AMD566.6     = U S $ l
                               US$O.O02 = AMD 1

                               COUNTRY FISCALYEAR
                               January 1   - December31

                        ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APL    Adaptable Program Lending
ATC    Assessment and Testing Center
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CEP    Center for EducationProjects
CER    Center for EducationReform
EFMR   (World Bank Supported) EducationFinancingand Management Reform Project
EMIS   EducationManagementInformation System
GOA    Government o f Armenia
HE1    Higher EducationInstitution
ICR    ImplementationCompletion Report
ICT    Information and Communication Technology
IDA    InternationalDevelopment Association
MED    Marz Education Department
MDG    Millennium Development Goal
MOES   MinistryofEducationand Science
MOF    Ministryo fFinance
MOSS   Ministryof Social Security
MTEF   Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework
NES    National Employment Service
OECD   Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
OED    Operations and EvaluationDepartment
PAD    ProjectAppraisal Document
PIP    Project ImplementationPlan
PISA   Programme for International Student Assessment
PPA    Project Preparation Advance
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC    Project Steering Committee
QER    Quality Enhancement Review
SACV   (World Bank) FifthStructuralAdjustment Credit
SIL    Specific Investment Loadcredit
SFSS   State Foundationfor Social Security
TIMSS  Trends in International Mathematics and Science Survey
TOR    Terms o f Reference

                                                                                                           FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                                                ARMENIA
                                                    Education Quality & RelevanceProject

                                                                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                                                      Page

     A.    STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE...................                                                                                        ...................................    2

        1.   Country andsector issues..............................................................................                                  ...................................    2

        2.   Rationalefor Bank involvement..........................................................................................................

        3.   Higher level objectivesto which the project contributes....................................

     B.    PROJECTDESCRIPTION............................................................................................................                                            ........5
        1 .  Lending instrument...                       ..........................................................................................................................         5
        2.   ProgramObjectivea                                     .................................................................................................................        5

        3.   Project development objectiveand key indicators.......................................................................

        4.   Projectcomponents...........................................................................................

        5.   Lessons learned and reflectedinthe projectdesign ..........................................

        6.   Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection..............................................

     C.    IMPLEMENTATION...........................................................................                                              ......................................     8

        1.   Partnership arrangements........                                                                                            ..............................................      8

        2.   Institutional and implementationarrangements                                                               ..............................................................       8

        3.   Monitoring and evaluationof outcomesiresults                                                                     .........................................................      9

        4.   Sustainability...........................                                                                 ............................................................... 9
        5.   Critical risks and possiblecontroversialaspects                                                         ...............................................................       10

        6.   Credit conditionsand covenants                                                                              ...........................................................       1 1

     D.    APPRAISAL SUMMARY                                        .............................................................................................................. 12

        1,   Economicand financial                                                                                                                   .................................     12

        2.   Technical......................                                                                       .................................................................       13

        3.   Fiduciary..........................                                                                      ..............................................................       14

        4.   Social...............................................................                                    ..............................................................       14

        5.   Environment.......................................................                                                            ...........................................     14

        6.   Safeguard policies........................                                                                            ..................................................      15

        7.   Policy Exceptionsand Readiness .........................................................

     Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinancedby the Bankandlor other Agencies .......................................................                                                       20

     Annex 3: Results Frameworkand Monitoring........................................................................................................... 21

     Annex 4: DetailedProject Description.......................................................................................................................                           25

This document hasa restricted distribution andmay beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

Annex 5: Project Costs ............................................................................................................................................... 29

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements .................................................................................................................... 30

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements ...........................................................................                                32

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements ........................................................................................................................             39

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis ...............................................................................................................               48

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues.............................................................................................................................         56

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision .........................................................................................................                  57

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File...................................................................................................................               58

Annex 13: Statement o fLoans and Credits ................................................................................................................              60

Annex 14: Country at a Glance...................................................................................................................................       61

Annex 15: Armenia Education Sector Development Policy.......................................................................................                           63

                                                             ARMENIA
                                                EducationQuality & Relevance


                                          PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

Date: December 18,2003                                                Team Leader: Toby Linden
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                               Sectors: General education sector (100%)
Sector Director: Michal Rutkowski                                     Themes: Education for the knowledge economy
Project ID: PO74503                                                   Environmental screening category: C
Lending instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)                      Safeguard screening category: S3




                              Source                                     Local         Foreign                  Total
Borrower                                                                    2.7           0.0                    2.7
IBRD/IDA                                                                    5.8          13.2                   19.0
Others
Total                                                                       8.5          13.2                   21.7




FY                              2005                 2006              2007             2008
Annual                          5.0                  6.5                4.5               3.0
Cumulative                      5.0                 11.5               16.0             19.0




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?Re$ PADA.3            o Yes   X N o

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies? Re$ PAD D.7                            oYes X N o
Have these been amroved by Bank management?                                                        oYes X No
I s approval for a n ipolicy exception sougk from the Board?                                     I o Yes   x  NO
Does the proiect include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"? Ref:PAD C.5
          - -                                                         -                          I XYes oNo
                                                                                                 I
Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3

To improve the quality andrelevance ofthe Armenian school system to meetthe challenges o fthe knowledge society.

Project description [one-sentence summay of each component] Re$ PAD B.34 TechnicalAnnex 4

The first component will provide a more relevant and inclusive general education curriculum and a system for evaluating system
performance; the second component will help ensure schools inArmenia have facilities and capacity to integrate a variety o f
educational technologies as part of teaching and learning; the thirdcomponent will enable teachers to understand and implement
the new curriculum and assessmenttechniques inthe classroom; the fourth component will help to improve themanagement and
efficiency o f the education system; and the fifth component will provide necessary project management-related assistance.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Re$ PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10 None




                                                                    1

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Countryand sector issues

A key Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (April 25, 2001) objective is rebuilding human capital with
emphasis on the crucial role o f sustained human development through quality education. The CAS
specifically stresses the major challenges that the Government faces "in combining underutilized schools,
and addressing the poor quality o f education". A new CAS, based on the Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP), will be developed this year and is expected to have human development as a central
feature.

At the time of the April 2001 CAS discussion, it was anticipated that the proposed Project would be a
stand-alone SIL, for a Credit amount o f US$10 million. Since then, however, the Government, through
the PRSP process, has articulated a ten-year Education Sector Reform Program (see Letter of
Development Policy, Annex 15), which the Bank fully supports. The Government proposes an ambitious
set o f reforms building on the first World Bank-supported Education Project. The proposed project is
therefore envisaged as the first stage o f a three-stage APL, with an initial Credit o f US$19 million. The
increase inthe Credit amount is manageable within the FY02-04 CAS base case lendingscenario.

While economic growth has been strong in recent years, unemployment and poverty remain highbecause
o f the incomplete transition to a market economy. For example, investment is low and labor market
rigidities remain high. Increasing the level and quality o f education is identified in the recent Poverty
Assessment as a central strategy for poverty reduction, in part through improving the relevance and
efficiency of the system. Recent studies identify the critical changes education systems need to undertake
to prepare their students for the global knowledge society (World Bank 2003d). The Armenian education
system faces a wide array of serious problems inthis respect.

The LearningProcess

Quality and relevance

Inputsinto the learningprocess are ofgenerally poor quality. Teachers, the key input, are paidabout US$
28 per month which i s close to the official poverty line and, because of extremely low levels o f public
expenditure (see below), are using out-dated methodologies, and lack opportunities for professional
development. In addition, curricula have only changed marginally since Independence in 1991,linkages
to the labor market are weak, learning materials and equipment are of poor quality or non-existent,
information and communication technology (ICT) is available in only a very few schools, and, in some
regions, the quality o f physical infrastructure is poor, partly as a result of the lasting effects o f earthquake
damage. These problems exist inall parts of the sector.

Poor quality inputs suggest that student learning outcomes are poor, although reliable measures o f student
achievement do not exist. Labor market outcomes are known to be weak. The poor mostly have low
educational attainment, although a relatively highnumber o f persons with higher education are also poor,
perhaps reflecting skills mismatches inthe changing economic environment(World Bank 2003a).

Access to learning opportunities

Armenia has high levels o f basic education enrollment: 97 percent in 1999/2000 (World Bank 2002a) and
Armenia is rated as `likely' to meet this Millennium Development Goal (MDG) (Goldman and Wright
2003). Evidence of upper secondary enrollments (grades 9 and 10) shows high rates compared with other
low income countries, around 61 percent (World Bank 2003a). In higher education, enrollment i s also
highat 38 percent (World Bank 2003a).


                                                       2

A gender inequality emerges in upper secondary education, with boys less likely to attend school (25
percent of the age cohort as against a figure o f 43 percent for girls (World Bank 2002a) though latest
government figures indicate the gap is closing. Starting in upper secondary education, enrollment gaps
between the rich and poor also begin to appear and are dramatic in tertiary education. A young person
from the top quintile i s almost three times more likely to attend higher education as someone from the
lowest quintile (World Bank 2003a).

Governanceand Management

Starting under the World Bank-financed Education Financing and Management Reform (EFMR) project,
the Government has embarked on an extensive program of devolving autonomy to schools. Schools now
have the ability to manage their own budgets, including retaining any savings, and all schools, by 2005,
will have their budgets basedon per pupilfunding. All school principals, boardmembersand accountants
will have been trained in their new roles by the completion o f the 2005-2006 school year. However,
because of low budgets and teacher salaries, schools continue to act 'rationally' by maximizing low-cost
inputsand employing more teachers rather than buyingother inputs. The functions ofthe MOES and the
Regional (Marz) education departments (deconcentrated units of the central ministry) have not moved
significantly away from a topdown style. Strategic planning and policy analysis are weak.

Private providers of education exist mainly at the tertiary level, where there has been an explosion of
interest. There are currently 92 providers o f higher education, o f which 73 are private, and they account
for about 50 percent of enrollments. However, the lack o f an accreditation or quality assurance system
means that there are widespread concerns about the quality of some providers. State institutions also
charge fees; roughly two-thirds o f state universities' and half of state colleges' income comes from this
source (World Bank 2002a).

Finance

Chronic under-spendingandpoor budget execution

Armenian public spendingon education is 2.09 percent o f GDP (in 2002), well below the OECD average
of 4.7 percent and the rate in other transition economies. Private spending is also low (less than 0.5
percent) as i s education as a proportion o f public spending (11 percent). Inaddition, education spending
actually amounted to only about 85 percent o f budget allocations in recent years (Burnett 2002). Overall,
public expenditures in general education amount to the equivalent about US$ 60 per student per year
(Government o f Armenia 2002 Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)). Furthermore, despite
low salaries, in schools, VET institutions and colleges less than two percent of the budget is used for
quality enhancing non-salary expenditures (non-salary spending i s overwhelmingly on utilities).        In
highereducation, about 15 percent is used for quality purposes.

Ineflc iency

A dramatic fall in the school age population since Independence and only modest reductions in staffing
levels have resulted in staffing ratios which are low in international terms and, more importantly,
unsustainable in the Armenian context. There are only about 11 school pupils for every full-time
equivalent teacher. In tertiary education, staffing ratios are even lower (except in training institutions
where the ratios are very high about 60 or 70 students per teacher - though only about 25 percent of
                                 -
tertiary students are inthese institutions) (Berryman et al. 2002).




                                                      3

Equity

Overall incidence o f public spending is remarkably equitable, being progressive at most levels of
education and only slightly regressive in higher education (World Bank 2002a). However, the richest
quintilespends almost twice as muchon education as the second richest quintile and seven times as much
as the poorest.

Government Strategy

The newly completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) sets out a comprehensive and ambitious
agenda for further reforms, which will be built into the forthcoming CAS. The PRSP identifies quality
and access as central concerns, with the intention to increase educational attainment, raise the completion
rate o f secondary education and boost teacher salaries. The Government has an Education Sector Reform
Program describing its plans for the nextten years (Annex 15). The Government has moved to address the
low levels o f public spending: it has proposed significant, real terms increases in spending for each year
o f the MTEF. In 2004-2015, education expenditures of the consolidated budget will increase by an
average o f 13.5% per annum in nominal terms, with the biggest increases in the first five years (2004-
2008).

The authorities will continue and deepen rationalization measures in the general education sector. The
following measures are planned for implementation : increasing pupil/teacher ratio to reach 16 in 2008,
increasing workload of teachers to reach 22 hours per week in 2005, increasing density of classes, and
defining optimal number o f pupils in schools, and merger o f schools if necessary. These reforms taken
together will enable teacher salaries to rise -to the equivalent o f US$ 80 in2005, and ensure an average
o f 12% increaseper annum ineach o f the subsequent program years.

Several important reforms were begun under the first Bank-supported project, in finance and
management. Programs with other international agencies have developed methodology for teacher
training. This Project will support some key elements o f the PRSP agenda, by focusing on quality and
relevance to increase pupils' interest inschool and therefore educational attainment and efficiency to raise
teachers' compensation. The project would encourage the MOES to focus on policy development in the
areas of education quality, teacher education and inclusive education to promote access to quality
education for all children. By the end of the first phase o f the program, the MOES is expected to prepare
and approve the policies addressing the special education needs, teacher education, school management
and inspection services, standards for school libraries, and the national plan for evaluating educational
outcomes. Investmentsin subsequentphaseso fthe APL will implement these reforms.

2. Rationalefor Bank involvement

The Bank has had a successful history o f involvement in the sector. The recently closed EFMR project
was rated Highly Satisfactory by OED. Some elements - such as the decentralization of education
management and a funding formula for schools - are being extended under the new project, while other
successful elements - such as the Textbook Revolving Fund - are being adapted for other uses. The
project links to other Bank operations, such as the Fifth Structural Adjustment Credit (SACV) which
contains conditions relatedto rationalization.

No other donor is working across the broadrange o f educational issues being addressed inthis project. In
some areas, such as investmentsin educational technology, the project will serve to helpto coordinate the
activities of the international community, by establishing an appropriate institutional arrangements and by
developing a mechanism to pool donor contributions.



                                                      4

3. Higher levelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

A key CAS (April 25, 2001) objective is rebuilding human capital with emphasis on the crucial role of
sustained human development through quality education.


B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION
1. Lendinginstrument

This four year Project is the first phase o f a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL), to support the
Government's Education Sector Reform Program.            An APL was agreed at a late stage o f project
preparationonce the PRSPwas finalized and the Government's longer term goals were clearer.

2. ProgramObjectiveand Phases

The Program Objective is to improve the quality and relevance of the Armenian school system to meet
the challenges o fthe knowledge society. The overall Program i s expectedto last ten years, with phaseso f
4, 3 and 3 years, at an estimated cost o f US$51 million (US$44 million Credit). The triggers for each
phase are as follows:

From first phaseto second phase:

        Policy for addressing the needs o f special education students agreed with the Bank and approved
        bythe Government
        National plan for educational assessment and evaluation agreed with the Bank and approved by
        the Government
        Minimum standards for school libraries approved by the Government, assessment of current
         situation in schools with respect to these standards completed, and plan for libraries agreed with
        the Bank and approved by the Government
         Textbook Revolving Fundcash flow projections for years covered by next phase demonstrates its
         self-sustainability
         Comprehensive teacher education and professional development strategy agreed with the Bank
        and approved by the Govemment
        Educationchapter o f PRSP revisedto reflect developments duringphase 1o fthe APL
        New policy and implementation plan for school management and inspection service agreed with
        the Bank and approved by the Government

From second phase to thirdphase:

        Evaluation of the Phase 1 curriculum and assessment reform completed and revisions made
        accordingly
        Textbook Revolving Fund cash flow projections for years covered by next phase demonstrate its
         sustainability
    0   Comprehensive teacher education and professional development plan implementation progressing
         satisfactorily
        New policy and implementation plan for cost-efficient reform o f student social and support
        services agreedwith the Bank and approved by the Government
        Educationchapter of PRSP revisedto reflect developments duringphase2 o fthe APL




                                                      5

3. Projectdevelopmentobjective and key indicators

The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to improve the quality and relevance of the Armenian
school system to meet the challenges of the knowledge society. The key indicator will be that 70 percent
of teachers are engaged in activities likely to develop the necessaryknowledge and competencies intheir
students.

4. Projectcomponents

Component 1: National Curriculum and Assessment System. Total cost US$ 3.9 million (US$ 2.2
million IDA). The first component will provide a more relevant and inclusive general education
curriculum and a system for evaluating system performance.           The project will finance: technical
assistance and consultative workshops to develop the national curriculum, new subject syllabi, school-
based related assessments, and revised entrance procedures for higher education; equipment and training
costs to establish the Assessment and Testing Center (ATC) and a Curriculum Development Unit within
the Center for Education Reform (CER); training of respective local experts in the MOES, CER and
universities; and printingand publishingcurriculum and assessment documents.

Component 2: Educational Technologies in Schools. Total cost US$ 7.9 million (US$ 7.0 million
IDA). The second component will help to ensure that schools inArmenia have facilities and capacity to
integrate a variety o f educational technologies as part o f teaching and learning. It will: build the
necessary infrastructure for integration o f ICT into general education; and, help teachers and students to
apply modern teaching and learning methods in schools using ICT and related instructional materials.
Funds will finance establishing and equipping School Learning Centers (computer labs) in about 600
schools in Armenia, in a sustainable way through a Computer Revolving Fund. In addition, the
component will fund an Internet connected School Network for about 150 schools; technical assistanceto
develop educational software and related software operating manuals and teacher training modules;
development and maintenance of the educational portal; and, establishment of the National Center for
Educational Technologies to oversee all education technology activities in Armenia, including the
Computer Revolving Fundand contributions from other donors.

Component 3: Teacher Professional Development. Total cost US$ 4.9 million (US$ 4.9 million
IDA). The third component will enable teachers to understand and implementthe new curriculum and
assessment techniques in the classroom. It will: (i)      train teachers in aligning their teaching to the
requirements of the new national curriculum and assessment system; (ii)     promote the use of active and
skills-based teaching methods in schools; (iii) prepare teams of teacher trainers who will be able to serve
as teacher development experts in the activities financed by this project and beyond; and (iv) pilot the
idea of school-based professional development of teachers, and increase cooperation and experience-
sharing among teachers and schools. Training on the new curriculum and assessment tools will be
organized by the CER, facilitated as necessaryby international technical assistance. Teachers will also be
trained to use ICTs. This component will finance: equipping regional training centers of the CER;
technical assistance to develop training materials; training o f teacher trainers, teachers and school
directors; and publishingand printing o f pedagogical resources. The pilot o f school-based professional
development will be implemented through grants to approximately 60 schools (`School Centers').

Component 4: System Management and Efficiency. Total cost US$ 3.6 million (US$ 3.6 million
IDA). The fourth component will help to improve the management and efficiency o f the education
system. The main costs o f this component are to provide a package o f benefits to the approximately
15,000 teachers who are made redundant as a result of rationalization. Benefits could include counseling,
training, business services, and additional redundancy payments.          These activities will help the
Government meet its efficiency targets specified in the MTEF. Additionally, this component would


                                                     6

finance training o f school principals, school board members, school accountants, and MOES and other
central agency staff in decentralized management and formula hnding; EMIS software; and technical
assistancefor EMIS software development and implementation.

Component 5: Project Management Support. Total cost US$ 1.4 million (US$ 1.3 million IDA).
The fifth componentwill provide the necessary assistancefor project coordination, financial management,
procurement, monitoring and reporting. Itwill support the investment and operating costs associatedwith
the project management unit, Center for EducationProjects (CEP).

5. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe project design

The Project reflects keylessonslearned inthe first Bank-supported education operation.

Realisticevaluationof the institutionalcapacity for managingreformsand project activities and an
appropriate project scope enhance the chances of success. Some areas are familiar to the Armenians
from the first project, e.g., school-based management and financial reform. In newer areas, such as
assessment and the use o f ICT, a considerable amount o f technical assistance has been provided during
preparation and detailed implementation plans have been prepared so that there is greater awareness of
the tasks ahead.

A project supporting substantive reform, while responding to immediate concerns, should keep
sustainability(financial, technicaland institutional)as paramount objectives. The project design is
based on sound financial and economic analysis; the in-country technical expertise in the new areas is
promoted and supported during implementation; and the legal, regulatory and institutional basis for the
reform is part o f the Project.

Project effectiveness is considerably enhanced when project concept and objectives are based on
stakeholder consensus and Borrower priorities. The design o f the reform has largely been at the
demand o f the Armenian Government and specifically the MOES, based on their priorities, as discussed
inthe PRSP. The PRSP and general project design have been discussed with all key stakeholder groups
and a consensus has been reached. A social and communications assessment i s being carried out and
necessary adjustments in the details of the activities and/or the communications strategy for mobilizing
support will be made.

Emphasis needs to be placed on reaching consensus with the Government on the monitoring and
evaluation framework and the needto use the framework robustlyas a toolfor monitoringprogress
during implementation. A significant amount of effort has been spent discussing a monitoring and
evaluation framework, including the indicators and triggers for the APL, with the Armenian counterparts.
This agreement is summarized inAnnex 3.

Obstacles to the rationalization of schools and staffing should not be underestimated. The first
education project initiated the dialogue on rationalization, but ultimately the rationalization program
could not be implemented. The current project design: (i)  has been initiated by the Government; (ii)has
been developed and piloted in a consultative way with communities; (iii)tackles the curriculum so
teachers can teach across more than one (narrow) subject; (iv) uses the legal and regulatory levers the
MOES has over the autonomous schools (e.g., initiating school mergers); (v) acknowledges that
substantial incentives and compensation are needed to ease social costs and overcome political
opposition; (vi) involves all relevant Ministries in planning and implementation in order to spread
ownership (and the political burden) and achieve the necessary coordination; and (vii) will develop and
implement a communication strategy to build understanding ofthe need for and benefits from the reform.




                                                     7

School-based management and per-pupil funding reforms need to ensure that the reporting and
accountabilityframework of schools to the Governmentis not weakened. The Project supports the
Government's moves to ensure appropriate financial reporting and accounting obligations of autonomous
schools, to increase the school accountability and enable evaluation of the outcome o f the financial and
management reforms at the school level.

6. Alternativesconsidered and reasonsfor rejection

Noproject

The Government of Armenia has pushed hard for this Project, has been proactive throughout project
preparation, and has produced an extensive Project Implementation Plan (PIP). This i s a moment o f
opportunity for education reform in Armenia: a full PRSP has been developed and the government
remains committed to education reform; and revenues for education are expected to increase inthe short-
and medium-term, making difficult but necessaryrationalization possible. Inaddition, the Bank is seen as
a strong partner for the Government, with education reform also part o f the dialogue being pursued
through the structural adjustment operation.

A narrower project,focusing on the quality issues or on rationalization and internal efjciency

It is recognized that the proposed Project is ambitious in scope and in the types of changes being
attempted.    However, a broad agenda, especially on the quality issues, is much favored by the
Government. A project focused only on efficiency would not be welcomed by the Government, would be
difficult to implement (all sticks and no carrots), and would mean that resources would continue to be
used to maintain an out-dated system with very low external efficiency. This issue was raised duringthe
Quality Enhancement Review (QER) held in May 2002 and the review panel recommended maintaining
this broadproject design.

A project dealing with the entire education sector

The PRSP represents a comprehensive description o f the Government's proposed reforms across the
sector. The Project does not include higher education becausethe Government is currently formulating a
strategy, which has been supported by the SACV and continues to be part of the dialogue with the Bank.
Vocational Education and Training (VET) i s being addressed by the European Union. Pre-school
education would not play to the Bank's comparative advantage (the bank has not worked in the sector)
and the Soros Foundationand UNICEF are active.


C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements

There are no official co-financiers of this Project. While there are several, smaller initiatives supported
by other donors or non-governmental organizations being implemented in Armenia (Annex 2), they are
not amenable to a formal co-financing arrangement. However, the MOES has requested assistance in
ensuring that these other activities are coordinated with the Project, especially in teacher training and a
DFID-funded activity on MOESre-organization.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

The MOESwill be the responsible agency for the execution of the Project, with the exception of the sub-
component on school rationalization for which the State Foundation for Social Security (SFSS) will be


                                                    8

responsible. The MOES has established a Center for Education Projects (CEP) to act as a project
management unit to support the coordination, fiduciary management and reporting o f the Project
includingthe school rationalization portion. The vastly experienced Center for Education Reform (CER),
will organize the teacher and school-based managementtraining and become the curriculum development
agency for the country. Each of the project areas has a designated working group established by
Ministerial order to assist in project preparation, and during implementation, a lead Ministerial
department or agency will be responsible for each ofthe areas.

Project funds will flow from: (i)   the Bank, either via a single Special Account, which will be replenished
on the basis o f SOEs, or by direct payment on the basis of direct payment withdrawal applications; and
(ii)theGovernment, viatheTreasuryattheMinistryofFinanceandEconomy(MoFE), onthebasisof
payment requestso f CEP. See Annex 7 for a flow of funds diagram.

3. Monitoringand evaluationof outcomeslresults

As noted above, the GOAhas produced a draft project monitoring and evaluation framework which is
designed to build capacity to evaluate the system and student performance beyondthe Project. The social
and communications assessment, will establish baseline indicators and a methodology for monitoring
social and other indicators.

The second component is designed to develop a variety o f assessment tools, and the fourth component
will strengthen the link between data collection and policy analysis inthe MOES. Through the PPA, the
Government has run an international assessment o f student performance in mathematics and science
(TIMSS) which will be repeated through the project. Finally, specific teacher and school surveys, to
include classroom observation, will be usedto measurechanges inteacher behavior and attitudes.

4. Sustainability

Fiscal sustainabilitv (Annex 9). The activities initiated by the Project are estimated to generate annual
post-first-phase project costs equivalent to 2.4 percent o f the general education budget, although more
than half o f these costs will be met from private sources (e.g., parental payments to the Computer
Revolving Fund). Replication of the Project throughout the general education system could generate
further costs equivalent to about four percent of the general education budget. However, projections
suggestthat the resources available to the education system will be growing fast enough to: (a) sustain the
additional non-salary costs arising from the Project; and (b) assuming increases in pupilhtaff ratios
materialize, provide for a significant increase inteachers' salaries.

Institutional sustainabilitv: As a result of the Project (and a related DFID-funded activity), the enhanced
MOES will have stronger capacity to manage the education system budget and schools will have greater
autonomy and capacity within a clearer regulatory framework and with greater financial flexibility to
continue the reforms. The CER, which will be responsible for curriculum development and teacher
training, i s a successful institution which should be able to adopt the new teaching methodologies and
extend their use in the system. The CRF will provide an ongoing source o f funds for investment in
educational technology.

The Project will support the establishment of two new institutions, the Assessment and Testing Center
and the National Center for Educational Technologies. Line items for these institutions will be required
duringthe project life and post-project sustainability will depend on sufficient allocations from the State
Budget for running costs and retaining high quality staff. Other donor projects (including the World
Bank-financed Public Sector Modernization Project) will be tackling broader issues o f civil service pay
and conditions which, if successful, should help recruitment and retention in the mediumterm.


                                                       9

5. Critical risks and possiblecontroversial aspects

Risks                                       RiskMitigationMeasures                  RiskRatingwith
                                                                                    Mitigation
To project development objective
Low budget allocations andor poor           This risk ismitigated by the close link  Substantial
budget execution                            betweenthe MTEFand the project
                                            targets, continued links with the
While inthe past couple o fyears there      adjustment discussions, and building
has been improved fiscal performance, all   the capacity ofthe MOES to develop
the promised increases ineducation          better budget plans.
sector spending have not been
forthcoming. Without additional
resources, teachers will remain poorly
paidand resistant to change, equipment
maintenance will not be carried out, and
new institutions will lose staff.

To component results
Government remains committed to reform      This risk is beingmitigated by the       Substantial
agenda                                      consultative design o fthe
                                            rationalization process, a social
Resistance to rationalization, either from  mitigation program, and ensuring
within the Government or amongst local      strong linkages with other government
communities, might affect the overall       ministries and the MTEF. A
reform and hture financial sustainability   communications strategy is being
o fthe system.                              developed.

Institutional capacity insuficient to       This risk is beingmitigated by           Modest
implement complex reform                    development o f a comprehensive PIP
                                            which specifically addresseslinkages
This is a complex and ambitious project,    between the different components,
and some new institutions are being         agreement on clear TORSfor the
created. There is a risk that institutional various institutions involved, capacity
capacity will be insufficient, or not       buildingactivities for the key agencies,
sufficiently or rapidly enhanced to enable  the approval of annual plans, and
all parts o f the reform to be developed,   intensive first year andmid-term
tested and then implemented inthe time      reviews to make adjustments. There i s
available.                                  also a strong and experienced project
                                            management unit.

Resistance of vested interests to change    This risk is beingmitigatedby the        Modest
                                            consultative way inwhich the new
Inaddition to the changesnotedabove         curriculum and examination
(such as rationalization), significant      arrangements will be developed.
changes are proposed inthe areas o f        Resistance to the higher education
curriculum andthe higher education          examination change would be unlikely
entrance examination which might be         to have a wider impact on the project.
resisted by those who benefit from the
current system.




                                                         10

6. Credit conditions and covenants

Conditions of Credit Effectiveness

   0   A Project Account for the counterpart funding has been opened and a deposit of US$ 100,000
       equivalent has been made by the Borrower into said account.

   0   National Center for Education Technologies and the Assessment and Testing Center shall have
       beenestablished pursuantto the laws o fthe Borrower and Charters acceptable to IDA.

   0   Two School Contracts, one on the installation of computers inschools and the other on training of
       school teachers, acceptable to IDA, shall have been executed and delivered by one or two
       schools.

   0   Staff Optimization Manual satisfactory to IDA has beenadopted by the Borrower.

ConditionofDisbursement

   0   N o payments will be allowed underthe DevelopmentCredit Agreement, Category 2(a) untilthe
       Borrower has made arrangements, satisfactory to IDA, which provide affordable internet access
       for schools.

Specific DatedCovenants

   0   Establish by June 1, 2004: (a) a Project Steering Committee consisting o f key stakeholders
       responsible for project implementation; (b) a Project Coordination Group chaired by the Deputy
       Ministerof MOES and consisting of the Directors of the CEP and CER and such other persons
       responsible for addressing the education operational issues in the Project and preparing reports
       for the Project Steering Committee; (c) a Rationalization Assistance Committee consisting o f
       representatives from MOES, MOSS, SFSSRA and NES, responsible for assisting SFSSRA to
       implement the SRP inaccordance with the Staff Optimization Manual.
   0   Ensurea national curriculum framework acceptable to the Association has been adopted not later
       than July 31,2004.
   0   Establish Regional Training Centers not later than October 1,2004.
   0   Submit an adopted policy on reforming higher education entrance exams acceptable to the
       Association not later thanJanuary 31,2005,
   0   Prepare and adopt by January 31 o f each year, commencing from January 31, 2005, Annual
       School Rationalization Plans.
  0    Ensure that not later than June 30, 2005, and every June 30 thereafter, Participating Schools
       which could not afford to purchase computers and the related software are provided favorable
       terms defined inthe CRF Manualto enable them to participate inthe scheme.




                                                  11

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economicand financialanalyses

Economic:

Despite impressive growth figures over recent years, the evidence suggests that the education system is
not producing graduates with the skills and competencies relevant to the Armenian labor market. First,
extreme poverty is highest amongst the young (up to age 25) as is unemployment, indicating a decline in
educational quality and relevance due to dramatic falls in public expenditure since Independence.
Second, labor market signals are weak at best since the absence o f reliable assessment of student skills
and knowledge - there i s virtual universal attainment o f the school. In the absence of this data, it i s
rational for business to focus on the number of years o f schooling rather than skills; and the poor
consistently have less education (Poverty Assessment) and rates o f return for males at least are good (see
Annex 9). The recent economic growth has been spurred by the construction, diamond processing and
ICT sectors - the latter two have experienced skilledjob growth. As this continues the demand for ICT
and more flexible skills will grow - exactly the skills that are in short supply given the pedagogical
practices inArmenia today.

For these reasons, and the already good enrollment rates, this Project focuses on quality and relevance
rather than equity and access, with the efficiency reforms designed to free up resources to make the
investments sustainable. However the nature o f the Project means that the use of formal codbenefit
analysis (a partial-equilibrium technique) i s impossible. Instead, codbenefit is the appropriate qualitative
framework within which to assess the project. The Project will support a shift in teaching and learning
strategies from those which generate old skills (rote learning, use o f invariant sources, working alone,
routine and unchangingmodes o f operation) to those which generate new skills (problem-solving, critical
use o f diverse sources, collaboration and teamwork, flexible and self-correcting modes of operation).
This will lay the foundation for post-project improvements in learning outcomes and in turn have a
positive impact on labor market performance. International evidence suggests that people with these
more flexible skills are more likely to get highly skilledjobs regardless of the level of their education.

Impact on labor-market outcomes can be analyzed within various frameworks. From the perspective o f
an individual, the results of recent surveys suggest that: for its impact both on the chances of getting ajob
and on salary, perseverancewith schooling (to higher education ifpossible) seems to pay off; at the level
o f the economy, increases in totalfactor productivity will have to play a crucial role in Armenia's long-
term growth performance. This i s where improvements in the quality o f education resulting from the
project will come in. Moreover, given the country's factor endowments and geographical situation, its
potential comparative advantage i s in high value-added and skill demanding, light-weight sectors. The
widespread acquisition of the new skills described above, together with an increase in digital literacy and
fluency inforeign languages, would helpto shift the structure o fthe Armenian economy inthis direction.

Inrelation to these potential benefits, the Credit financing of US$ 19.0 million, plus US$ 2.7 million in
Armenian counterpart financing, is relatively small. The additional costs generated by the Project are
discussedinthe next section.

The overall economic impact of rationalization is difficult to assess. While around 15,000 teachers are
projected to lose theirjobs, a significant (but unknown) minority o f these will be at or close to retirement
age. However, this emphasizes that the package o f benefits provided to redundant teachers under the
project should be made as economically beneficial as possible to improve teachers' chances of finding
productive work.




                                                      12

Financial:

The activities proposed by the Project will have fiscal implications for the Government, both during and
after the project period. In the first four-year phase, the Government contribution i s mainly for the
running costs of the proposed Assessment and Testing Center (ATC) and the National Center for
Educational Technologies (NCET), and the network operating center (NOC). At only 0.3 percent o f the
projected education budget over the first-phase period, the total burden of this co-financing looks
tolerable.

There will be fiscal implications for the Government beyondthe life of the Project. For example, running
the ATC, the NCET and the NOC, transferring the EMIS to the MOES, maintaining the computers
purchased through the CRF, and payment for connectivity and software rental are estimated to cost the
equivalent o f about one percent o f the total education budget in 2009. Additional costs for keepingthe
CRF topped up are expected to be met from private sources. N o provision for redundancy payments
beyond the end o fthe project period has been made inthese calculations.

Replicating the Project throughout the general education system will be expensive: extending school
internet connections to the remaining 90 percent o f schools, annual connectivity costs, training all
teachers o f the eight targeted subjects in ICT methods, further staff development and in-service training,
and stakeholder dialogue, school/ teacher networking and policy discussions following the project
interventions, etc. may generate annual costs of around 2.4 percent o f the estimated 2009 general
education budget. However, some of this could be funded by a loan in the later phases of the APL and
from non-budget sources.

A substantial increase in teachers' salaries could be regarded as a necessary condition for the
improvement in educational quality at which the project is aiming.            However, assuming budget
projections and rationalization targets are met, there should be sufficient resources to increase spending
on quality enhancing non-salary costs and to allow teachers' wages to rise significantly.

2. Technical

The Project responds to demands from the Government, reinforced through the PRSP process, for
comprehensive reform of general education. The EFMR Project tackled some areas o f the immediate
problems, by providing all students with textbooks and startingto tackle the inefficiencies o f the system.
That project, rated Highly Satisfactory, was narrowly focused and did not attempt directly to improve
educational quality. As noted above, the educational system continues to face a wide range o f problems.

To identify the next critical policy interventions inthe general education sector from the long list of PRSP
proposals, the project design puts a strong emphasis on changing the behavior o f individuals in the
general education system, a key lesson o f successful reforms in other countries. This behavioral change
will be brought about, for example inthe case o f teachers, through improving their skills and knowledge
(through training and provision o f ICT), adjusting the institutional framework (through a new curriculum
and assessment system, restructured MOES and MED capacity, and decentralized management to school
level), and changing incentives (increased pay in return for improved system efficiency). The use o f an
APL will allow appropriately sequencedreforms over the longer term.

Throughout the Project, appropriate international comparators are used. For example, the benchmarks for
curriculum and assessment reforms will be the educational standards in European countries and the tests
used in international studies o f student learning (TIMSS). During project preparation the relevant
experiences of the international agencies working in Armenia were taken into account.             Technical




                                                      13

assistance paid from a PHRD grant enabled consultations with key stakeholders and beneficiaries, and
brought ininternational perspectives.

3. Fiduciary

By November 2003, CEP had satisfactorily implementedthe Action Plan prepared by the Bank FMS
during the project pre-appraisal in September 2002, aimed at upgrading the financial management
arrangements from the level acceptable for the old pre-LAC1 projects to the level corresponding to the
current Bank requirements as laid out inthe updated OP/BP 10.02 on Financial Management. Thus, as of
November 2003, CEP has acceptable financial management arrangements in place to meet the current
Bank requirementsinrespect o f the quality of accounting, reporting and internal controls system and also
inrespectofthe audit arrangements, andis ready to start the project implementation.

A procurement capacity assessmentwill be undertaken as part of the appraisal mission and the findings
will be included in negotiations documents submittedfor approval. The proposed Project will build on
the experience o f the first Bank-supported education project inArmenia. This Project was included inthe
independent procurement audit of the Armenian portfolio and was found to be of exceptionally high
quality.

4. Social

A great deal is knownabout the problemsfacing the Armenian education system. Through a PRSPwhich
was developed in highly participatory manner and an Intensive ICR process used for the EFMR Project,
there is good evidence of the views of Armenians regarding the solutions to key issues in the sector. In
addition, specific recent studies, such as the Poverty Update and Poverty Assessment, provide important
background. These have all been used duringproject preparation.

As noted elsewhere, this project aims to bringabout significant change inthe behavior o f individuals and
inthe efficiency of the system, all of which are potentially controversial. A social and communications
assessment will identify specific concerns regarding project design, identify an effective communications
strategy, and determine what social indicators to measure andhow.

5. Environment

There are no significant environment issues in this project. Except for cosmetic repair of some offices and
buildingsof key beneficiaries(Assessment and Testing Center, National Center for Educational Technologies, and
regional training centers) and the provision of grants to schools which in part might finance the replacement of
windows and doors, paint and repair of flooring, there will be no other construction activity supported by the
Project. The environmental impact of these activities will be minimal. The project will not finance any lead
paint, asbestos material or otherwise dangerous/hazardous material in conducting these repairs; such
prohibitions will be specified inthe contract biddingdocuments.




                                                        14

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                     No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                                       X
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                                                  X
  PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                                       X
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                                          X
  Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                                           X
  IndigenousPeoples(OD 4.20, beingrevisedas OP 4.10)                                                             X
  Forests(OP/BP 4.36)                                                                                            X
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                                                    X
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                                     X
  Projectson International Waterways(OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                                              X

The Projecthas been classified as Category C for its low impact on the environment.

7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

The Projectis entirely consistentwith Bank Policy andno exceptionsare requested.

The Project is ready for implementation. It will use many of the same people and systems that were
successfully involved in the coordination and management of the earlier project. The Government i s
currently managing a Project Preparation Advance to complete the preparation activities, and drafts of
terms of reference for technical assistance, charters of new institutions, bidding documents, and key
specifications have been submittedto the Bank. Submission of acceptableversions ofthese documents is
a condition of negotiations. A monitoring andevaluationplanhas been agreed.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            15

                         Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground
                              ARMENIA: EducationQuality& Relevance


A key CAS (April 25, 2001) objective is rebuilding human capital with emphasis on the crucial role of
sustained human development through quality education. The CAS specifically stresses the major
challenges that the government faces "in combining underutilized schools, and addressing the poor
quality o f education" and the need for a follow-up second education project (following on from the
recently closed EducationReform and Management project) to focus on these continuing challenges.

The Armenian education system faces a wide array of serious problems. Indeed, the fact that the
Armenian education system has not collapsed under the pressures o f low spending and external shocks
since independence is remarkable. The governments o f recent years have, with the help of international
partners including the World Bank, begun some reforms. The GOAhas recently prepared its first
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework and a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The Joint Staff
Assessment of the PRSP concluded, in part, that "The staffs agree with the proposed strategy for
increasing access and quality o f education by improving the conditions o f teachers and upgrading their
skill base and realigning the education system more to the needs of the knowledge economy. The staffs
also agree with the PRSP proposal that it will take significant additional budget resources and improved
efficiency ofthe system to garner enough resourcesto affect these changes."

Recent analytical work by the Bank (2003) has identified the critical issues developing countries'
education and training systems face inbecoming lifelong learning systems      - the objective this Project.
                                                                                             of

A.       The LearningProcess

Quality and Relevance

Output measures are sparse. Armenia currently does not have a reliable domestic assessment system.
Literacy in the population over the age of 15 is almost universal, but this measures only an individual's
ability to read or write a sentence; this is hardly sufficient for coping with the demands o f the knowledge
economy. Armenia hasjust completed an international assessment for pupil achievement inmathematics
and science (TIMSS-R), but the results are not yet available. Performance o f other transition economies,
though they are all richer than Armenia, shows reasonable performance on TIMSS-R which measures
mastery o f a school curriculum, but poorer performance on other assessments (such as PISA) which
measure the ability to use and manipulate knowledge inreal life situations.

While the poor mostly have low educational attainment, a relatively high number o f persons with higher
education are also poor, perhaps reflecting skills mismatches in the changing economic environment
(World Bank 2003a)

Inputs into the learningprocess are o f generally poor quality because of: extremely low levels o f public
expenditure (see also below); out-dated teaching methodology, and lack o f opportunities for professional
development; curricula which have only changed marginally since Independence; lack o f linkages to the
labor market; almost no investment so learning materials and equipment are o f poor quality or non-
existent; low salaries - school teachers are paid about US$ 28 per month which is close to the official
poverty line; and, in some regions, the lasting effects o f earthquake damage. These problems exist in all
parts of the sector, including the VET (see ETF 2003) and higher education (see GOAHE strategy)
subsectors.




                                                      16

Within the FSU, Armenia i s a leader in computer technology and information-based systems. However,
there is serious concern about the alarming brain drain o f Information and Communication Technology
(ICT) specialists over the past few years and a lack of relevant ICT education at all levels. Despiterecent
investments, including school grants provided under the Education Reform and Management project and
through a number o f international agencies, it is estimated, that only four percent of teachers have ICT
experience and that only 20 percent o f schools have at least one computer (but not necessarily with
internet access).

Access to learning opportunities:

There are high levels of basic education enrollment; 97 percent in 1999/2000 (World Bank 2002a)'.
Armenia i s rated as 'likely' to meet this MDG goal (Goldman and Wright 2003). Evidence o f upper
secondaw enrollments (grades 9 and 10) show high rates compared with other low income countries,
around 61 percent (World Bank 2002a). In higher education, enrollment is high at 38 percent (World
Bank 2003a).

A gender inequality emerges in upper secondary education, with boys less likely to attend school (25
percent o f the age cohort as against a figure o f 43 percent for girls (World Bank 2003a) though latest
government data indicates the gap is narrowing). Overall, about 40 percent o f those not attending give
lack of financial resources as the main reason. For boys, however, the main reason is that they do not
want to go to school, suggesting a lack o frelevance (World Bank 2003a).

Starting in upper secondary education, enrollment gaps between the rich and poor beginto appear and are
dramatic intertiary education. A young person from the top quintile is almost three times more likely to
attend higher education as someone from the lowest quintile (World Bank 2003a). Moreover, those from
thefour lowest quintiles who are in higher education are about three times more likely to attend colleges
which are considered o f poorer quality than universities.

Access to learning opportunities for adults wishing to return to education or to access workplace training
is virtually non-existent.

B.       Governanceand Management

Starting under the Education Finance and Management Reform project, the Govemment has embarked on
an extensive program o f devolving autonomy to schools and building their capacity to manage this
process. All school principals, board members, and accountants will have beentrained by 2005. Schools
now have the ability to manage their own budgets, including retaining any savings, and all schools, by
2005, will have their budgets based on per pupil funding. Schools can hire and fire teaching and non-
teaching staff, with a School Board appointing the principal. Accountability needs to be improved; new
rules have been introduced in higher education and will be developed through the proposed project in
general education.

The system as a whole however, remains, run in a top-down way by the MOES. For example, the MOES
still sets class size norms which schools must follow and the school funding formula has become more
complex, and therefore less transparent, as new categories o f 'need' are identified. Regional (Marz)
education departments are deconcentrated units o f the central ministry. There is no tradition o f
consultation with local stakeholders either inside or outside the education system.

'However,a    recent assessment (Bumett 2002), using 1991census data, foundGER ingrades 1-9 at only about 83
percent (1999 data) and decliningslightly for two years. The recent census shows much lower populationlevels
than previouslythought.


                                                        17

An attempt to decentralize to the community, or haimnak level, supported under the Education Finance
and Management Reform project was unsuccessful because local political conflicts influenced the
appointment o f school directors. The GOAremains committed to this policy.

There is little articulation between the various parts of the system. Entrance into higher education is on
the basis o f an examination set by each faculty not the school curriculum; graduates o f vocational
programs cannot access higher education; and there are no routes back into education for adults in the
labor market. There is no guidance and counseling system.

Private providers o f education exist mainly at the tertiary level, where there has been an explosion of
interest.  There are currently 92 providers o f higher education, o f which 73 are private providers,
accounting for about 50 percent of enrollments. However, a lack of accreditation or quality assurance
system means that there are widespread concerns about the quality of some providers.                Also, state
institutions charge fees; roughly two-thirds o f state universities' and half o f state colleges' income come
from this source (Berryman 2002).

Equity

Overall incidence o f public spending is remarkably equitable, being progressive at most levels o f
education and only slightly regressive inhigher education (World Bank 2002a). Some o f the inequities in
the system were noted above. The richest quintile spends almost twice as much on education as the
second richest quintile and seven times as much as the poorest. Of this amount, the richest spend seven
percent o f their expenditures on private tuition, compared to negligible amounts in all other quintiles
(World Bank 2002a). Only the richest are able to afford private tuition to prepare for the entrance
examination into highereducation.

C.       Capacity to Change

Armenia needs to move away from the top down system o f management in which the MOES issues
directives which are then uniformly applied to all institutions and inwhich the flow o f information is one
way and i s used to control rather than empower local actors. Giventhis tradition, it is hard to tell exactly
the willingness or desire of school teachers and principals to change, but based on experience in other
FSUcountries (and the very low salaries ofteachers inArmenia), it is likelythat their motivation to do so
is low. The reaction o f state higher education institutions to the emergence of private providers i s to
attempt to regulate them out ofthe market.

D.       Finance

Chronic under-spending andpoor budget execution

Armenian public spending on education is 2.09 percent o f GDP, well below the OECD average of 4.7
percent and the rate in other transition economies. Private spending is also low (less than 0.5 percent), as
is education as a proportion of public spending (11 percent). In addition, education spending actually
amounts to only about 85 percent o f budget allocations (Burnett 2002) (though healthy tax revenues has
enabled arrears to fall dramatically in recent years). Overall, public expenditures in general education
amount to about US$60 per student per year (Govemment o f Armenia 2002). Furthermore, despite low
salaries, in schools, VET institutions and colleges, less than 2 percent of the budget is used for quality
enhancing non-salary expenditures (non-salary spending is overwhelmingly on utilities).              In higher
education, about 15 percent is usedfor quality purposes.




                                                     18

The Government has moved to addressthe low levels o f public spending: it has proposed significant, real
term increases in spending for each year o f the MTEF which, if achieved, would raise GDP spending on
education to 3.3 percent by 2015.

Ineffic iency

A dramatic fall inthe school age population since Independence, plus only modest reductions in staffing
levels, have resulted in staffing ratios which are low in international terms and, more importantly,
unsustainable inthe Armenian context. For example, there are only about 11school pupils for every full-
time equivalent teacher.      In tertiary education, staffing ratios are even lower (except in training
institutions where they are incredibly high about 60 or 70 students per teacher - though only about 25
                                             -
percent of studentsare inthese institutions) (Berryman 2002).

E.       Innovation System

This is the area about which least is known. A recent report on higher education didnot explicitly address
the issue of research inhigher education or how researchand innovative ideas get transferred from higher
education into the productive sector. Based on the Soviet era separation o f universities and academies,
universities are organized along traditional rigidly defined subject lines, and very low investment makes it
likely that there are major blockages to development and exploitation ofthe new ideas. With the collapse
o f the economy and especially o f large state-run enterprises, links with the productive sector are also
likely to be fragile at best.




                                                     19

                   Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinanced by the Bank and/or other Agencies
                                      ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance


                                                                                      LatestSupervision(PSR) Ratings
              Sector Issue                                  Project                    (Bank-financedprojects only)
                                                                                      Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                                          Progress (IF')  Objective (DO)
Education                                 Education Financing and Management                S            HS(ICR)
                                          Project

Social Capital Development                Social Investment Fund                            S                S

Structural Reform                         Structural Adjustment Credit IV                   S                S

Structural Reform                         Structural Adjustment Credit V                    S                S

Public Sector Reform                      Public Sector Modernization Planned for
                                          April 2004

Other developmentagencies
1. UNICEF                                 Investmentofthe subject "Life Skills" in       ongoing
                                          1-7grades: training of teachers, printing
                                          and distribution o f teachers' manuals

2. Project Harmony                        ITProject: Provision o f computers to          ongoing
                                          schools and setting up intemet
                                          connections

3. Organization for Security and          Women's Rights Education and                   planned
Cooperation inEurope (OSCE)               Leadership Development; Production and
                                          publication o f a Second Series o f
                                          Advanced Gender Education Materials for
                                          Higher and Secondary Education

4. UKDFID                                 Public Sector Reform (APSREP)                  ongoing

5. International Research and Exchanges   Teachers' training for elementary grades:      ongoing
Board (IREX)                              Training o fteachers; printingo f Teachers'
                                          Manuals; establishment o f Association o f
                                          Elementary Class Teachers; establishment
                                          o f training center; 2002-2005 Curriculum
                                          Development for Pre-Service Education
                                          (CDPS)

 6. Norwegian Refugees Council            Teaching Human Rights: Training for             planned
                                          teachers and printing o f textbooks for 1-3
                                          grades

 7. Open Society Institute (OSI), Armenia Teacher training inICT, and electronic         ongoing
                                          centers development




                                                                20

                                 Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring

                                  ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance

                                             ResultsFramework

                 PDO                         OutcomeIndicators               Use of OutcomeInformation
To improve the quality and                 70 percent ofteachers are        To identify successful practices to
relevance o f the Armenian school         engaged inactivities likely to    serve as basis o f design o f the
system to meetthe challenges o fthe       develop the necessary             second phase o fAPL
knowledge economy                         knowledge and competencies in
                                          their students

      Intermediate Results               ResultsIndicatorsfor Each             Use of ResultsMonitoring
      One per Component                           Component
Component One:                         Component One:                       Component One:
Armenia to have more relevant             New National Curriculum and       Adjust content o fteacher
general education curriculum and a        aligned leamingmaterials being development programto ensure
system for evaluating the system          used in80% o fschools             teachers have knowledge and
performance.                                                                understanding to use new materials
                                          70 percent o fteachers use        and assessmentpractices
                                          enhanced classroom-based
                                          assessmentpractices to inform
                                          students and parents o f learning
                                          andprogress

                                          Revised examination procedures
                                          being usedto determine access
                                          to higher education, having been
                                          piloted, evaluated and
                                          adjustments made accordingly

Component Two:                         ComponentTwo :                       Component Two:
Schools to have facilities and            70 percent o f schools have       To ensurethat poorer communities
capacities to integrate a variety o f     School Leaming Centers            have affordable access to CRF
education technology as part o f          operating
teaching and learning.
                                          140networked schools are          Ensurepace o fprovision o fnetwork
                                          usingtechnology effectively       facilities does not outstrip schools'
                                                                            capacity to use facilities
                                          90 percent o f schools that
                                          received SLC hardware from        Identify possible resistance or
                                          the CRF have made payments to     blockages to makingpayments in
                                          the Computer Revolving fund       full
                                          on time and in full.




                                                       21

        Intermediate Results        Results Indicators for Each           Use o f Results Monitoring
        One per Component                      Component
Component Three:                  Component Three:                     ComponentThree:
Teachers to understand and            95 percent o f trained teachers  Adjust content oftraining to ensure
implement the new curriculum and      understandandaccept the          progress against indicator is made
assessmenttechniques in               rationale for the curriculum and
classrooms.                           assessmentreform

                                      30 percent ofteachers are ICT
                                      literate

                                      90 percent of School Centers     Ensure sufficient support is available
                                      use innovative experimentation   to School Centers, on an on-going
                                      o f active leaming teaching      basis, to enable teachers to transform
                                      methods                          their practices


ComponentFour:                    Component Four:
Improve management and efficiency   All schools are operating          Adjust training coursesto ensure
o f the general education system    effectively under the new          school principals and board
                                    management and financing           members have the knowledge they
                                    arrangements                       need


                                    Teacher salaries increase in line
                                    with MTEF, subject to budget       Ensure MOE$has capacity to make

                                    allocations being adequate and     effective budget planning

                                    percentage spent on non-salary
                                    items i s according to budgetplans




                                                   22

            .-
            I




M
c
.I
L
0
B
.I
c,




c,
v)         s   s     9
E2
I          0
           m   0
               l-   .-C

L
s10
-4d
v)
c
a,

a,
E
M
E
L
rp
3                   .-0
                    -
                    I


                    n




      s
      0    0   0

s   0
0              s   s          0

I-  9   s      0    0         s
                               Y
               I-
        0            m
        m               s0m  n




$   0          s
?                  s
N              0   f Q $
vi  9   s0m    0    -  0 W




$   0          s   svi        0
                              0
c,
v i 2  s       0   n
        0               s    s     m
                                   m
                                   m
        W               0         0
                        \o         vi


s              s              0     m
                              0   0
2
" o a0 s           sI-
               0       s      3     Tf
                                    vi
                                    Tf
       0                c,
                        0
       I-

                                  Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                         ARMENIA: EducationQuality and RelevanceProject


Component 1: National Curriculum and Assessment System (US$ 3.9 million total, including
contingencies)

The result o f the component will be that Armenia has a more relevant and inclusive general education
curriculum and a system for evaluating educational outcomes.

Inthe initial phase of the APL, the component will, first, develop a new National Curriculum consisting
o f policy guidelines and goals for education, state general education standards, the Basic Teaching Plan,
the assessment goals, and the syllabi for all core subjects covering all grades in general education. A
process for curriculum development involving consultations with key stakeholders will be created.
Initially, the work will be done by Working Groups of stakeholders and experts, supported by technical
assistance, and then transferred to a Curriculum Development Unit of the CER which will receive some
minor office equipment and repair. Some o f this activity has already been started under the Project
Preparation Advance.      Textbooks will be developed and paid for through the existing Textbook
Revolving Fund without the use of Credit funds. Second, the component will establish, equip and train
the staff the new Assessment and Testing Center (ATC) (a draft charter of which has been received).
Priority in the first phase of the project will be given to: developing a national policy for evaluating
educational outcomes, developing an examination at the end o f secondary education (`Matura'), building
the capacity o f the Ministry to analyze assessment data for policy-making, helping teachers to use
classroom-based assessments, and participating in the next round o f TIMSS in 2007. Once the capacity
of the ATC is established, it will be contracted to provide consulting services for the development o f the
test and assessment items and for conductingthe national assessments and TIMSS. Procurement o f goods
relatedto assessments, such as materials for printing, will be done by the CEP.

Both clusters o f activities will include technical assistance for training o f local experts in curriculum
design, assessment and educational measurement, and their implementation (draft TORS received).
Credit funds will also be usedto printand publisheducational materials (excluding textbooks).

Insubsequentphases of the APL, prioritywill be givento: revisingthe curriculum inthe light of piloting
and early implementation experience; including all students under the new National Curriculum,
especially those with special educational needs; and developing the system o f evaluating educational
outcomes inline with the agreednational policy framework.

Outcomes expected: the education system will have a more relevant national curriculum and teaching
methodology, better capacity to monitor how students are learning and schools are performing, more
specific advice to teachers and schools in their efforts to improve teaching, and finally more objective
evidence tojudge how the Armenian education system i s performing inthe international context.

Component2: EducationalTechnologiesinSchools(US$7.9milliontotal, includingcontingencies)

The main goal of this component i s to ensure that all schools have facilities and capacities to integrate a
variety of educational technologies as part o f teaching and learning so that students can develop the
necessarytechnological and computer literacy for the modern knowledge society.

Inthe first phase of the APL, Credit funds will be used to provide schools with computers and related
equipment to establish School Learning Centers. Schools will repay the cost o f this equipment to the



                                                     25

Computer Revolving Fund (CRF), to be established within the National Center for Educational
Technologies (NCET), on interest-free terms. The CRF will operate in a similar way to the successful
Textbook Revolving Fund established under the previous WB project: schools will sign a contract with
the NCET (or CEP prior to the establishment o f the NCET) and repay the credit over five years, usually
by collecting a fee from parents o f approximately US$ 15 per student per year. Each year, schools
wishing to participate in the Fund will indicate the equipment they need to reach the minimum
specifications laid down in the manual; the CEP will then procure equipment and service and delivery
contracts to meet these needs. (A draft operational manual i s available which describesthe CRF inmore
detail. Draft technical specifications have also been provided.) The operational manual describes the
measures to be taken to ensure that all schools have equitable access to computer equipment and that
provision has been made for those schools and communities for whom the repayments will be
unmanageable.

The other features financed through this component are working groups that integrate ICT-related issues
into the New National Curriculum and the Subject Syllabi; development and delivery o f training modules
for teachers; development of educational software, designing and publishing o f the software operating
manuals; development o f educational portal; and establishing and equipping the NCET. This Center will
be in charge of the operations of the Computer Revolving Fund(a draft Charter has been received); other
activities will be managed directly by contracts with the CEP. Through PHRD funds, an `ICT in Schools'
business plan has been deveioped; through the Project Preparation Advance, a survey of the needs of
every school inthe country has been undertaken. Technical assistancewill be usedto support the software
and portal development, and to monitor and advise on implementationofthe component.

The School Networking activities will cover approximately 150 schools in Yerevan City, Ararat,
Armavir, Aragatsotn and Kotayk regions, providing them with Internet connectivity (these schools will
receive a supplemental grant from the Minister of Education and Science to cover these costs). The
networking activities will begin once an agreement has been reached on affordable and reliable Internet
service.

In subsequent phases of the APL, once a sustainable Fundto provide equipment for schools has been
established, priority will be given to enhancing the range and types of materials available to students and
teachers through investing in school libraries and increasing the number o f schools with access to the
Internet.

Component 3: Teacher Professional Development (LJS$4.9 million total, including contingencies)

The main goal of this component is to enable teachers to understand and implement the new curriculum
and assessment techniques inthe classroom.

This component will help teachers in aligning their teaching to the requirements o f the New National
Curriculum and assessment system, promote the use o f active and skills-based teaching methods in
schools, prepare teams o f potential teacher trainers who will be able to serve as teacher development
experts in the activities financed by this Project and beyond, facilitate the idea o f school-based
professional development of teachers, and increase cooperation and experience-sharing among teachers
and schools.

In the first phase of the APL, this component will finance two types of teacher in-service training
activities. First, raising awareness and knowledge about the education reform among all teachers,
including the content of and rationale behind the new curriculum and assessment regime (`Type A'
training). Around 41,000 teachers will be provided with regular, short-duration professional development
opportunities throughout the Project by external trainers and school principals. International technical



                                                    26

assistance will train about 160 trainers to work with larger groups of teachers in all parts o f Armenia
under the coordination of the Center for Education Reforms (CER) through its regional centers. Six new
regional centers will be equipped inareas where none currently exist.

Second, expanding the use of modern teaching methods in schools will include about 250 selected
teachers from approximately 60 schools who will be invited to an intensive 20-day program lasting for
two academic years (`Type B' training). International technical assistancewill be recruited to train about
20 trainers and will also use the experiences gained during the similar projects financed by several aid
agencies. The key idea i s to develop these schools as a source of teaching and learning innovations and
then establish structures to support the dissemination of these new ideas to other schools and teachers.
Furthermore, the 250 teachers participating in this Type B training may be used as trainers and
professional development support personnel to other schools and teachers during the reform. The
selected schools will receive some minor equipment and furniture to enable them to implement new
teaching strategies and serve as innovation centers, as well as small grant to cover the costs (such as
minor equipment and supplies, travel and stationery) of networking with other schools.

Teacher in-service training in the use of ICT in education will also cover all schools. Approximately
13,500 teachers and school directors will be trained during the project period under this component,
through contracts with private service providers.

Draft TORSfor the technical assistance for the preparation of training modules and materials have been
received, as have draft TORSfor the School Centers.

In subsequent phases of the APL, the experience of this Type B teacher training will be analyzed and
disseminated to extend the network of these `learning schools' to the surrounding regions. Furthermore,
reform o f the pre-service teacher training will be included this component inthe third phase.

Component 4: SystemManagementand Efficiency(CJS$3.6 milliontotal, includingcontingencies)

This component will improve the management and efficiency o fthe general education system.

The main costs of this component are to provide a package of benefits to the approximately 15,000
teachers who are made redundant as a result o f rationalization. The proposed Program would provide
teachers with benefits beyond the statutory minimum provided by the Government. The program has
been developed on the model of similar programs used by the Bank in other sectors (since there i s as yet
no relevant experience in education). Teachers will have a choice from a menu o f additional services,
including counseling services, additional job-search programs, training and retraining programs,
relocation grants, assistance in self-employment and other forms of assistance. The program will be
implemented using the same mechanisms as for the provision of statutory benefits for unemployed
people. Teachers will be requiredto register with the National Employment Service (NES) to receive any
additional benefits (as they are to receive statutory ones). Teachers within five years o f the official
retirement age could elect to receive, instead o f the additional benefits above, a cash payment equal to six
months' salary. However, the number entitled to this benefit will be small as currently only around 5
percent of teachers fall within this category (and, o f course, not all may choose this option). All these
additional benefits would be funded from the Credit. The State Foundation for Social Security (SFSS)
will make any cash payments to teachers and to suppliers of services to teachers, although the NES will
organize the latter. Credit funds, with procurement by the CEP, would also be usedto build the capacity
of the NES to handle the increased demand, through training and provision o f minor office equipment,
recruiting short-term consultants, and by developing an effective monitoring and evaluation system.
There will be an agreement between the CEP and SFSS describingthe services to be provided to teachers
and the arrangementsfor monitoring and reimbursement ofcosts.



                                                      27

Each year of the project, the Government will develop a rationalization plan, through consultation with
local communities, designed to meet the efficiency targets set out in the MTEF. The Government intends
progressively to tighten the norms for class size to promote teacher redundancies. The criteria schools
will use to select teachers to be made redundant have been developed in consultation with local
communities and teachers. A draft operational manual has been developed for the procedures to be
adopted by schools.

The regulatory framework for autonomous schools, including a model School Charter and an effective
training program, were developed under the EMFR Project and implemented in about 200 of the
country's 1400 schools. The training will be extended to all schools under the project, through the
existing mechanisms (i.e., through the Center for Education Reforms). Duringthe course o f this training,
the focus will shift to improving educational leadership skills of school directors.       More effective
arrangements for reporting on and post hoc monitoring o f schools' expenditures will be developed with
the Finance Ministry. The MOES, MED and central agencies will be provided with training and
assistanceto adapt to their new roles, as the education system becomesmore decentralized.

The Project will support the move of the EMIS from the CEP to the Policy and Strategy Division of the
MOES. This support will include relocation, refurbishingand staff training costs. The Policy and strategy
Division will take over the management of the EMISby September 2005.

Subsequent phases o f the APL will reform the student support services and the Inspectorate system,
enhance the support system for school managers' professional development, and develop policy-making
capacity by incorporating research and internationaldevelopments into educational planning.

Component 5: Project Management Support (US$1.4 million total, includingcontingencies)

The objective of this component is to provide all the necessary resources for effective project
coordination, financial management, procurement, monitoring and reporting. The component would
support the effective operations of the Center for Education Projects (CEP). The CEP i s already in place,
having successfully implemented the first project (EMER), and most of the staff from the previous project
are still with the CEP.

The component will finance investment and operating costs. Specifically, it will finance: minor office
repair; office equipment, sofhvare, and furniture; vehicles; staff salaries and short-term consultant fees;
external and in-country training and seminars; and operating costs o f the project management unit.
Operating costs include: equipment maintenance and repair; vehicle maintenance, repair and fuel; office
utilities, minor equipment and supplies; literature; field trips; communication costs; postal services;
banking charges; media advertisements; in-country travel for project implementation related field trips;
and meetingexpenses.




                                                     28

                                                       Annex 5: ProjectCosts
                                        ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance


                                               ComponentsProject Cost Summary



  Armenia
  Education Quality and RelevanceProject                                                                       %            % Total
  Components ProjectCost Summary                                          (US$'000)                        Foreign            Base
                                                         Local              Foreign           Total       Exchange           Costs


  1. Curriculum andAssessment                             2,373.7              1,247.0          3,620.8       34               18
  2. InformationTechnologiesin Schools                      788.4              6,120.0          6,908.3       89               35
  3. Teacher ProfessionalDevelopment                      2,613.4               1,987.0         4,600.5       43               23
  4. System Managementand Efficiency                      1,149.8              2,277.0          3,426.9       66                17
  5. Project Management                                   1,064.3                205.0          1,269.3        16               6
                                                          7,989.7            11,836.1          19,825.8       60               100
  Physical Contingencies                                    552.7                846.6          1,399.3       61                7
  Price Contingencies                                          0.6               476.1             476.7      100               2
                                                          8,542.9            13,158.8          21,701.7       61               109

'Estimated  identifiable taxes and duties are US$220,600, and the total project cost, netoftaxes, is US$21.S million. Therefore, the share o f
projectcost net of taxes is less hanone percent




                                                                        29

                                 Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                             ARMENIA: EducationalQuality& Relevance


The Ministry of Education and Science will be the responsible agency on behalf o f the Armenian
Government for the execution of the Project.          The Ministry of Finance and Economy will be the
representative of the Borrower as it relates to the financial and legal obligations ofthe Government.

The MOES has established a Center for Education Projects (CEP) to act as a project management unit to
support the coordination and implementation o f donor-financed Projects. The organizational structure o f
the CEP will act as a coordination mechanism for the reform and for the project implementation. The CEP
has a supervisory board (or "Project Steering Committee"), chaired by the Minister(see chart below). The
membership of the PSC represents the key stakeholders responsible for project implementation. A Project
Implementation Group will be established under the chairmanship o f a Deputy Minister of MOES
consisting o f the Directors of the CEP and CER and such other representatives as agreed, with
responsibility for coordinating the day-to-day activities of the Project and making progress reports to the
Project Steering Committee.

The CEP has the departments responsible for properly accounting for and procuring goods, works and
services financed from Bank proceeds. The CEP has also a core technical team designed to support the
responsible technical departments or other agencies o f the Ministry in the coordination, implementation,
monitoring and reform on the progress o f the reform.

Each of the project areas has a designated working group to assist in project preparation, established by
Ministerial order.    During implementation, there will be a lead Ministerial department or agency
responsible for each o f the areas. The Center for Education Reform will be the lead agency for the
Curriculum Reform and Teacher Training activities. The Assessment and TestingCenter will be the lead
agency for the Assessment Subcomponent.           The National Center Educational Technologies will be
responsible for the operation o f the ICT fund and related technical issues.         The General Education
Department will be responsible for the school autonomy and financial reform, including issues related to
rationalization. The Ministry o f Social Security, through its State Foundation for Social Security, will be
the lead agency responsible for the labor retrenchment issuesresultingfrom the school rationalization. A
Rationalization Assistance Committee with representation from MOES, MOSS, SFSS, and NES will be
established. The Policy and Planning Department of the Ministry will be responsible for the Education
Management Information System and general evaluation o f the reform. The Center for Education
Projects, as mentioned above, will generally be responsible for coordination o f the various activities,
fiduciary management, monitoring and reporting to the Ministry, Government, and Bank on the progress
and issues related to the Project.

Implementation of this Project will ultimately be the responsibility o f the local level stakeholders - the
regional marz education departments, the school principals, the teachers and the students. The project
preparation has emphasized the need to be conscious and rational about the need to rationally analyze the
number and type of activities that these local level stakeholders, with their given capacity, will be able to
undertake and to build in support where possible to increase their capacity to undertake the requestsmade
of them.




                                                      30

           Project Management Structure




Project SteeringCommittee




                        31

                     Annex 7: FinancialManagementand Disbursement Arrangements
                                  ARMENIA: EducationQuality& Relevance


The CEP, to date, has satisfactorily implemented the Action Plan prepared by the Bank Financial
Management Specialist (FMS) during the project pre-appraisal in September 2002, aimed at upgrading
the financial management arrangements from the level acceptable for the old pre-LAC1 projects to the
level corresponding to the current Bank requirements as laid out inthe updated OP/BP 10.02 on Financial
Management. Thus, the CEP has acceptable financial management arrangements in place to meet the
Bank requirements in respect o f the quality o f accounting, reporting and internal controls system and also
inrespect ofthe audit arrangements, and is ready to start the project implementation.

Country Issues.

The most recent Country Financial Accountability Assistance (CFAA) was conducted in Armenia in
spring 2003, and its main findings and conclusions were discussedwith the Government representatives
inJuly 2003. The report, however, hasnotyet beenfinalized and made public.

Inmakingthe fiduciary assessment, the CFAA assessedthe overall fiduciary risk2as significant. Among
the reasons for such a rating are: (i)still inadequate capacity of core control and supervisory agencies
performing the audits within the public sector; (ii)       the fact that, while most of the basic laws are in place
with respect to various entities' (private sector and public enterprises, including state non-commercial
organizations) financial reporting, compliance remains a problem and authorities need to improve the
quality o f auditing, monitoring and supervision. However, the fiduciary risk in the stand-alone financial
management arrangementsfor Bank-financed investmentprojects inArmenia is considered to be low.

The CFAA team identifiedthe following financial management issues for Bank-financed projects:

    Governmentcounterpartfunding (GCF). Historically, there have beentwo types o f problems with
    GCF: (a) delayed counterpart contributions against the goods, works and services procured, i.e.,
    payments for requests presented by the PIUs to the MOFE beyond the agreed 30-day deadline, and
    (b) failure to replenishthe accounts for project counterpart funds to the level requiredinDevelopment
    Credit Agreements for some projects.

    The World Bank Yerevan Office continually monitors the counterpart fundingflow. Recently, a new
    database was developed to monitor this flow each month; this has enabled the Bank and Government
    to more closely check the status of GCF and address potential cash flow problems ina timely manner.

    Project bankaccounts.Weaknesses inthe commercial banking sector shouldbe managed inrelation
    to maintaining projectltransit accounts and Special Accounts on Bank financed projects. Currently,
    only one local bank (a branch of a large international bank) is authorized to manage Special
    Account funds. The other Special Accounts are held in reputable banks outside Armenia.
    Projecdtransit accounts have been opened in other local commercial banks; however, the CFAA
    recommendedthat (i)        the balances in these accounts be minimized; and (ii) accounts only be used
                                                                                         the
    for upcoming, short-term payments.

    Project financial management staff. The financial management (FM) staff are local consultants
    employed on terms o f reference, durations of contracts, and salaries which vary among the different
    PIUs. Some of these units have had significant staff turnover due, in part, to the higher salaries

 Risk of illegal, irregular or unjustifiedtransactions not beingdetected, measured on a four point scale according to
the CFAA Guidelines (low, moderate, significant or high).


                                                           32

    available in the private sector (which raises the issue of providing regular training to the PIUs' FM
    staff, both in IFRSand in World Bank financial management and disbursement procedures). Overall,
    the CFAA concludedthat PIU staff arrangements are satisfactory.

0   Issues arising from project audits. At the time the CFAA was prepared, the Government was
    substantially in compliance with all audit covenants of Bank-financed projects. Most projects
    received clean audit reports for fiscal years 2000, 2001 and 2002, although at least half had
    significant internal control issues (raised in management letters), such as failure to reconcile debtors
    and creditors, and failure to reconcile PIUand World Bank accounting records.

0   Compliance issues. The audits o f revenue-earning entities, required for World Bank credits, have
    raised several fundamental compliance issues. It should be noted, however, that no involvement o f a
    revenue-earning entity i s plannedunderthe Project.

0   Audit arrangements. These are satisfactory. All Bank-financed investment projects are audited
    annually by an independent private sector firm acceptableto the Bank.


Strengthsand Weaknesses.

The significant strengths that provide a basis for reliance on the project financial management system
include: (i)significant experience o f CEP in implementing Bank-financed projects (four projects
implemented by CEP as o f the date o f the assessment: PHRD Grant for Education Financing and
Management Reform project; Education Financing and Management Reform project; IDF Grant
"Children Initiatives"; PHRD Grant for EducationQuality and Relevance project); and (ii)     the unqualified
audit reports issued by CEP's project external auditors for the last two years.

Significant weaknesses identified at the pre-assessmentstage were: (i)   absence of experience inproducing
FMRs; and (ii) of relevantjob experience on the part ofthe new CEP financial manager. To date, the
                lack
newCEP financial manager hasalready gained sufficient experience, to beginFMRpreparation.

Fundsflow

Project funds will flow from (i) Bank, either via a single Special Account which will be replenished
                                  the
on the basis of SOEs or by direct payment on the basis o f direct payment withdrawal applications; and
(ii)theGovernment, viatheTreasury attheMinistryofFinanceandEconomy(MoFE) onthebasisof
payment requests of CEP.




                                                    33

             1. Withdrawal application
                                                                                World Bank
                                                                         1 II
             13. Direct paymentrequest
                                                                              2. $ funds



                 4. Payment request                                  US$Special Acct
                                                                    (Commercial Bank)         14. $ funds
                                                                        -
         7. Payment                                              I

         zquest
CEP                    ---

                            I                                                    5. $ fund

                                      I
                                      I
                                      I
                                      I
                                      I
                                      I 8. Payment
                                      i request
                                      I
                                      I



                                Treasury at MoFE             12. AMD
                                                             funds




         10. Payment
         request

         _-----------                    AMD Account
                                       (Commercial Bank)




                             11.AMD               AMD Cash inCEP
                                        1
                             funds                                      1    6. AMD
                                                                             funds

fi 3. Invoices from
   suppliersand/or
 I appropriate                       1
 i documentation                  4
                                    Local suppliers, SFSSA and CEP staff
 I

 I




                                                   34

Step  Description
1-2   Replenishmentof SpecialAccount,
      As required, the Financial Manager prepares a withdrawal application together with
      relevant supporting information - SOE listingsfor expenditures below the prior review
      thresholds and full documentation details for expenditures greater than the prior review
      thresholds. The withdrawal application i s then approved and signed as appropriate and
       sent to the WE! LoanDepartment for the replenishment of the Special Account.

3-12  Payments to contractors, suppliers, etc.
      Payments are effected in two ways, depending upon the source o f financing: (i)from
      WB funds - a bank payment order from the SA i s prepared and funds are transferred
      from the SA directly to the foreign suppliers (in USD) or to the local suppliers (in
      AMD after conversionexecuted by the selectedcommercial Bank); and (ii) GOA   from
      funds - payment orders are prepared, these are approved by MoFE, presented to
      Treasury for payment, and funds flow from the Treasury's bank account to AMD
      account of CEP inthe commercial bank.

      Note 1. Government contribution funds are transferred to the AMD account o f CEP in
      HSBC Bank upon request o f CEP. CEP sends to MoFE the payment request together
      with the copies of invoices for contracts involving Government contribution. For the
      request to be paid by the Government, payments on such contract must have been
      included in the budget presented by CEP to the Government on an annual basis and
      approved by the Govemment within the framework o f the annual state budget.

      Note 2. CEP does not make conversions from USD (SA) to AMD (AMD account) for
      payments in AMD. The price of all contracts, including those with Armenian
      counterparts, i s fixed in USD and paid to the Armenian counterparts in AMD
      according to the exchange rate o f the commercial bank on the date of payment. It
      should be also noted that each contract has a clause that the payment will be made in
      AMD equivalent of USD value of the contract according to the commercial rate used
      by the commercial bank on the date of payment. The commercial bank upon receipt of
      payment order from CEP writes off the necessary amount o f USD from the SA,
      converts it into AMD and performs payment in AMD. The AMD account is used
      mostly for receipts o f Government contribution and for refunds o f money sometimes
      made by local contractors/suppliers.

      Note 3. There are normally no direct payments from GOA (Treasury) to the local
      suppliers and contractors. The only direct payments of this type were made by GOAto
      the Textbook Revolving Fund (under the first Education Financing and Management
      Reform Project).

13-14 World Bank Direct Payments. Direct Payment requests are sent from CEP to the
      World Bank Loan Department when circumstances require. The payment request is
      prepared on Form 1903 and authorized as for normal Withdrawal Applications (see
      above). The World Bank makes direct payment to the suppliersas directed.




                                          35

Staffing.

The CEP includes the Director, a finance team comprising the Financial Manager and Accountant, the
Procurement Specialist, and various teams established to implementthe various projects' components and
sub-components.

AccountingPoliciesand Procedures.

The accounting books and records are maintained on an accrual basis and project financial statementsare
presented in United States Dollars.

Accounting policies and procedures are documented in the new Financial Management Manual for the
newproject, satisfactory to IDA.

InternalAudit.

CEP has no internal audit function and none i s considered necessary, given the size of the organization.

External Audit.

The auditing arrangements for the Project will follow the standard procedures adopted for ECA, and,
more specifically, for its Hub-North part (comprising CIS countries). One important issue to note i s that
part of the funds distribution will be performed by NES/NIF, and therefore, this project-specific feature
must be properly addressed in the audit TOR (as a project-specific modification to the standard TOR).
Specifically, the auditors will need to provide adequate assurance that the funds disbursed by SFSS as
benefits to the teachers have been according to the relevant agreement(s).

The audit of the Project will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank and on
terms of reference (TOR) acceptable to the Bank. There is a list o f audit firms pre-qualified to conduct
audits o f World Bank financed projects in HUB-North region, which i s updated regularly, and there i s a
standard audit TOR applicable for ECA, which is also updated regularly to take account of the
developments in the overall Bank audit policy. The Project will choose the auditor from the above-
mentioned list and use the ECA standard audit TOR as a basis for preparation o f its own audit TOR,
which i s to be cleared with the project FMS annually irregardless of the term o f contracts concludedwith
the auditors (one year contract or several year contract).

The annual audited project financial statementswill be provided to the Bank within six months of the end
of each fiscal year and also at the closing o f the project. The contract for the audit awarded during the
first year of project implementation may be extended from year to year with the same auditor, subject to
satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds o fthe Credit.




                                                     36

The following chart identifiesthe audit reports that will be requiredto be submittedby CEP together with
the due date for submission (in compliance with the revised ARCS settings and with the new Bank audit
policy).

                     Audit Report                                             Due Date
                                -
                                                         inimplementationofthe Project.
 Financialstatements-are basedonthe quarterly FMRs       Within six months ofthe endof each fiscal year and
 and includebalance sheet, summary ofsources anduses     also at the closingofthe project
 of funds, summary of uses of funds by project
 components, SOE summary schedule, statementof
 SpecialAccount andnotesto financial statements
 Other (specify)                                         None

ReportingandMonitoring.

Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project monitoring
and supervision and the indicative formats of these are to be included in the new CEP Financial
Management Manual.

I nformation Systems.

CEP's information systems consists in 1C accounting software, which i s used for recording the
transactions and preparation o f financial reports denominated in local currency for the local authorities.
During the project preparation period, 1C accounting software has been upgraded (basically, a new
package was procured and installed), and now the software is capable o f automatically generating all
necessaryreports (FMRs and statutory reports).

Disbursement

Allocationof credit proceeds

The proceeds o f the Credit will be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines provided in the IDA
"Disbursement Handbook". The Project which is to be supported by the Credit has been designed to be
implementedover a four year period. The disbursementarrangements are basedon IDA'Sappraisal ofthe
financial  management capability o f the implementing ministry and its institutions, as well as the
experience and lessons learned from the previously implemented education project and other projects in
the Armenian portfolio. Project procurement and disbursements are synchronized ina manner that allows
for a six-month disbursement lag from the time o f completion o f a Credit-funded activity to the release of
the Credit funds to the supplier/contractor. Credit funds are expected to be fully disbursed within 18
quarters after the expected effectiveness date of June 1, 2004. The Project Completion Date is May 31,
2008, with a Credit Closing Date o f November 30, 2008. The disbursement categories and amounts and
percentagesto be financed under each category are presented inthe table, as follows:




                                                    37

                                   Table A: Allocation of Credit Proceeds


ExpenditureCategory                          Amount in US$ million              FinancingPercentage
1. Civil Works                                               0.5                            90%
2. Goods                                                                  100%of foreign expenditures; 100%
   (a)   ITNetwork                                           0.8          (ex-factory cost) of local
   (b)   Other Goods                                         6.5          expenditures; and 90% for other
                                                                          items procuredlocally
3. Consultants' Services                                     2.1          100% of foreign expenditure; 92%
                                                                          o f local expenditures
4. Training                                                  2.8                           100%
5. SchoolGrants                                              1.2                           100%
6. Supportto RedundantTeachers                               1.7                           100%
7. IncrementalOperating costs                                0.2                            90%
8. Refundingof PPF Advance                                   1.3
9. Unallocated                                               1.9



Use of statements of expenditure (SOEs): Disbursement arrangements under the Project will be carried
out using SOE procedures (i)    for works; (ii) goods costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; (iii)for
                                               for
services of consulting firms costing less than US$ 100,000; (iv) for services of individual consultants
costing less than US$ 50,000; (v) for training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower; (vi) school grants; and (vii) support payments for redundant teachers.
The requiredsupporting documentationand other records will be retained by the CEP for at leastone year
after the receipt by IDA o f the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation will be made available for review by the independent auditors and by the visiting IDA
staff upon request.

Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, a Special Account for the CEP, denominated in
US$ in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The selection process and criteria for selection o f the bank
would follow IDA standard selection procedures. Payment o f eligible expenditures (civil works, goods,
services, grants, severance payments, and operating costs) may be made by the PMU out of the Special
Account. The authorized allocation i s US$ 1,500,000. The initial deposit into the Special Account will be
US$750,000, untilthe aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the Credit Account plusthe total amount o f
all outstanding special commitments entered into by IDA shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent o f
SDR3.O million. The Special Account will be replenished at regular intervals, preferably monthly.
Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis and will be accompanied by full
documentation, including monthly bank statements of the Special Account, for all items except those
eligible for disbursement on the basis o f the SOEs. All other applications for direct payment or issuance
of Special Commitments must for an amount 20 percent or more ofthe Special Account allocation.

The CEP will also open a project account into which a share of the Government's contributions will be
deposited every year. A deposit by the Governmentfor counterpart funding in the amount o f US$ 100,000
is a condition of project effectiveness (estimated to be the counterpart funding requirementsfor the first 3
months of Project implementation). Thereafter, the amount deposited by the Government shall be in
accordance with the Project Financial Monitoring Reports submittedquarterly to the Ministry of Finance
and to IDA by the CEP. All Project accounts will be autonomous and will be audited annually by an
independent auditing firm acceptable to IDA on terms of reference previously agreed with IDA.




                                                     38

                                  Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                              ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance


This section describes the procurement arrangementsunder the Project inthe amount ofUS$ 19.0 million
equivalent (US$21.7 million total project costs), in support of the Education Quality and Relevance
Project.   Bank-financed Civil Works and Goods contracts under the project will be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (henceforth
referred to as Procurement Guidelines). Bank-financed contracts for Consulting Services required for the
Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines on the Selection and Employment of
Consultantsby WorldBank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999
and May 2002 (henceforth referred to Consultant Guidelines). Project activities and procurement
contracts not financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the national regulations. The project's
expenditure categories, estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in Table A and Al.
Other procurement information, including an assessment o f the procurement capacity o f the coordinating
and implementingagenciesand IDA'Sreview processesis presented inTables B Iand B2.

Notificationof BusinessOpportunities

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in UN"Development Business", and the issue
of Development Gateway in January 2004, and will be updated annually thereafter for all outstanding
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Specific Procurement Notices
for ICB procurement o f Goods and Works will be advertised in Development Business, Development
Gateway as well as a national paper of wide circulation in both English and Armenian languages.
Contracts procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be advertised in a
national paper o f wide circulation in Armenian language. For consultants' contracts above US$ 200,000,
Specific Procurement Notices/Requests for Expressions o f Interest (SPNs) will be advertised in the
Development Business, Development Gateway and in a major national newspaper (in the national and
Englishlanguages). All organizationshndividualsrespondingto the GPN will directly receive copies o f
SPNs intheir specified areas o f interest by facsimile or email whenthe SPNs are advertised.

ProcurementArrangements

The procurement arrangements under the Project are primarily based on IDA appraisal o f the existing
procurement management capability of the CEP, under the Ministry of Education and Science.
Experience and lessons learned from the first Bank-supported Education Project and other Projects inthe
education sector and Armenian portfolio have been factored into the design of the implementation and
procurement management arrangements. A draft Procurement Action Plan has been drawn, which
provides a menuof actions and recommendations to build procurementcapacity inthe CEP. Procurement
and disbursements are synchronized in a manner allowing for a six-month disbursement lag from the time
of completion o f a Credit-funded activity to the release o fthe Credit funds to the supplierhontractor.

Participation of Government entities, teachers and university professors: Because o f the nature o f the
Project, which includes curriculum reform and development o f a student assessment and examination
system, the active participation of government entities, teachers and university professors in the
development and implementation of the reforms is imperative. As discussed below, procurement waivers
for the participation of Government Entities have been obtained.    Teachers and universityprofessors will
be contracted following standard selection of Individual Consultants, competitively and based on their
qualifications matchingthose o f the position.



                                                      39

CivilWorks

Since the focus o f this Project is on the quality and relevance of the general education system, there are
few civil works to be awarded duringthe implementation o f this Project. The following procedures are
scheduled to be used:


(i)     National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for the office rehabilitation
        estimated to cost less than US$ 600,000 each and more than U$ 100,OO. Contracts will be
        awarded on the basis of the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. The Bank's Standard Bidding
        Documents (SBDs) for Procurement o f Works through NCB (ECA Region August 1999)
        translated into local language and Standard Bid Evaluation Form (April 1996) will be used
        accordingly. The Bank will prior review the first NCB procedure.
(ii)    Minor works (MW) procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$
        100,000 each. Minor Works procedures will require that the Borrower obtain quotations from at
        least three qualified contractors in response to a written invitation. The Invitation to Quote for
        Minor Works contracts shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic technical
        specifications, a Works Activity Schedule or Bill of Quantities on which the contractor will quote
        its price offer, the required completion date, a form of agreement acceptable to IDA and the
        relevant drawings. Contracts procured through M W procedure shall be awarded to the lowest
        priced responsive bidder. The ECA Region's Sample Proposal Document for Writing Price
        Quotations for Minor Civil Works (ECA Region) will be used accordingly. The Bank will have
        prior revieweda M W procedure duringthe implementation of the Project Preparation Facility and
        will, therefore, not expect to prior review MW duringthe implementationofthe Credit.

Goods, includingEducationalSoftware

Goods to be procured under the Project consist of: (i)     information technology-related and other office
equipment; (ii) printinganddissemination costs; (iii)  vehicles; (iv) office furniture and equipment; and (v)
mass media time and space. Such goods will be grouped to the extent possible and considering timing of
their use, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of
procurement will be followed:

(i)     InternationalCompetitiveBidding(ICB) procedures will be usedfor goods contracts estimated
        at above US$ 100,000 equivalent. The Project will have a significant amount o f procurement
        related to the delivery, installation and maintenance of Information, Communication Technology
        (ICT) equipment for schools. It i s proposed that an annual ICB procedure will be organized with
        a defined delivery schedule. The Bank's SBD for the Procurement of Goods and the Standard Bid
       Evaluation Form will be used for ICB procurement. For contracts to be awarded on the basis of
       ICB, the Borrower may, with the agreement of the Bank, grant a margin o f preference in bid
       evaluation, in accordance with Section 11, Paras 2.54 and 2.55, and Appendix 2 of the IDA
       Procurement Guidelines. All ICB contracts are subject to Bank`s priorreview.


(ii)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost
        less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract for the procurement ofprinting and dissemination
       and the procurement of educational software in Armenian language. Depending on the exact
       timing o f the printing actions, the CEP will combine printing requests to the extent possible to
       reduce the number of contracts signed and ensure economies of scale. The Bank's Standard
       Bidding Documents (SBDs) for Procurement of Goods through NCB (ECA Region) translated
       into local language and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form (April 1996)will be used accordingly.
       The Bank will prior review the first two NCB contracts awarded for Goods. The production of


                                                     40

           the educational software will be very similar to the requirements o f producing textbooks.
           Therefore, it is proposed to consider revising the standard bidding documents for the production
           of textbooks to that o f the educational software. The bidding documents used in the Project will
           be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval.

           International Shopping (IS). These procedures will be used for the procurement of goods other
           than printingand educational software estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 per contract. The
           I S procedures that will be followed for these contracts consist of comparing price quotations
           obtained from at least three suppliers/firms from two different eligible source countries.
           Invitations to Quote (ITQ) under I S procedures shall indicate the description and quantity o f the
           goods, as well as the desired delivery time and place. The terms o f the accepted offer shall be
           incorporated ina purchase order. The Borrower may create short lists of firms for procurement o f
           standard off-the-shelf computer equipment that have the automatic no-objection by the Bank.
           Such firms are listed on the new IT shopping web site at the following address:
           http://www.worldbank.org/htmlopr/shop-IT/. The ECA Region's format for the Invitation to
           Quote for I S contracts will be used accordingly. The Bank will prior review the first two
           contracts awarded onthe basis of internationalshopping.

           National Shopping (NS). These procedures will be used for the procurement of goods and
           printing services estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per contract. N S procedures
           consist of comparing price quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers/firms.
           Invitations to Quote (ITQ) shall indicate the description and quantity of the goods, as well as the
           desired delivery time and place. The terms o f the accepted offer shall be incorporated in a
           purchase order. The Borrower may create short lists o f firms for procurement o f standardoff-the-
           shelf computer equipment that have the automatic no-objection by the Bank. Such firms are listed
           on      the    new       IT    shopping       web      site    at     the    following    address:
           http://www.worldbank.org/html/opr/shop-IT/. The Bank will prior review two national shopping
           procedures.
           Direct Contract (DC). Direct contracting procedures will be usedinaccordance with the criteria
           established in Paragraph 3.7 o f the Guidelines. As indicated, direct contracting may be required
           for the purchase o f proprietary material (3.7 (c)). Inthe case o f the Armenia EQR Project, Direct
           Contracting procedures are expected to be used for (i)educational reference literature for the
           MoES, related agencies and the CEP; and (ii)media time and space. All contracts awarded
           through Direct Contracting procedures are subject to the Bank's prior review.

Consultant Services

Contracts for Consulting Services and Training will be packagedto combine related skills and services, in
order to make them attractive and expand competition. Consultant services consist of short- and long-
term assignments to be contracted to firms and/or individuals (local and/or foreign or jointly), depending
on the nature and duration o f the assignments.            Selection   procedures will generally be through
competition among qualified short-listed consultants. The short lists for consultant services contracts with
f i r m s shall comprise three to six firms with a wide geographic spread, and with no more than two firms
from any one eligible country. The consultants' short list may comprise entirely national consultants for
consulting assignments that are estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000. The procurement o f consultant
services contracts financed under the IDA Credit will be in accordance with the provisions o f the Bank's
Consultant Guidelines.The World Bank's Standard Request for Proposals, Selection o f Consultants, dated
July 1997 and revised April 1998, July 1999 and March 2002, as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation
Report for Consultant Services (October 1999) will be used accordingly. The consultant selection
procedures are as follows:




                                                        41

(i)     Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). This procedure will be used for contracting
        consultant services relatedto development o f educational software, trainers manual and assistance
        inpreparation of syllabus, testhtems for 12 subjects, totaling upto an estimated aggregateamount
        o f US$ 0.66 million.

(ii)    Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures will be used for contracting services valued at less
        than US$ 100,000 per contract related to component evaluation, development o f educational
        software, preparation of the school portal, development and installation o f new version of EMIS
        software, training o f central trainers, social monitoring and evaluation, analysis of local labor
        markets and schools/staffing profile, etc., totaling up to an estimated aggregate amount o f US$
        0.48 million.

        Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for the services for the annual audit o f the
        Project Financial Statements and Accounts which include a procurement and physical audit
        component. Aggregate amount procuredthrough LCS is estimated at US$ 0.06 million equivalent
        for a period o f four years.

(iii)   Individual Consultants(IC) will be hiredinaccordancewith Section V ofthe Guidelines on the
        basis of individual qualifications after comparison of not lessthan three suitable CVs. Procedures
        for the contracting of Individual Consultants will be used for specialized assignments that may
        either be of long-term or short-term duration, including preparation of school subjects' tests,
        syllabus for learning areas, development o f national ICT program in education, consultancy for
        overall component coordination, strategic planning, mergingissues, etc. for an aggregate amount
        of US$ 1.46 million equivalent.


(iv)    Single Source (SS) procedures will be used for contracting o f services related to development,
        provision and annual revision o f modules for training o f school teachers, school principals and
        their trainers, organization, monitoring, quality assurance of school teachers training, preparation
        of National Assessment, conducting of TIMSS and preparation o f test items for an aggregate
        amount o f US$ 0.55 million equivalent.
HiringOf Government-OwnedOrganizations
A waiver from OPRC has been obtained for hiring o f the otherwise ineligible Government-owned Centre
for Education Reform (CER) which would have unique qualifications and experience in the country for
the assignmentsto be carriedout under the Credit. A similar waiver has able beenobtained for the to-be-
established and Assessment and Testing Centre (ATC), once the Bank affirms that the Centre has the
necessary capacity.

Training

Training in an aggregate amount o f US$ 3.82 million equivalent will be provided through training
courses, study tours, seminars, workshops, conferences and other training activities not included under a
goods or service provider's contract. Bank financing will cover costs o f travel, accommodation and
subsistencefor the participants, including travel and per diem costs for the relevant bodies involvedinthe
implementation of the Project. Training costs will also comprise rent of premises, office supplies and
training materials. When appropriate, a local firm will be selected to provide logistical services upon
comparison of three price quotations presented by suitably qualified local contractors under agreed
procedures. The procedures for selecting training candidates, the training course or study tour, proposed
training institutions and budgets will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The CEP will administer all
overseas training and study tours and assist project beneficiaries inarranging in-country training.




                                                     42

IncrementalOperatingCosts

The Project will generate incremental operating costs which include (i)    procurement of office materials
and supplies, regular communications expenses and utilities, meetingexpenses, in-country travel of CEP
consultant staff, banking charges, advertisement fees and fuel expenses for the CEP; and (ii)
                                                                                            maintenance,
security and upkeep of the CEP. Procurement o f operating expenditure items including specific services
(e.g. printing, messenger, etc.) will normally be carried out through N S procedure, or through a direct
contract with the service provider (e.g., communications, utilities). The planned annual budgets for CEP
Operating Costs will be submittedby CEP and agreed with IDA prior to the start of the financial year as
part of the Annual Work Programs. The incremental operating costs of other subcomponents will be
borne by the respective government agency and are, therefore, shown as non-Bank financed.


Non-BankFinancedActivities

Non-Bank financed activities are not subject to World Bank procedures. In some cases, they may be
subject to rules and procedures defined by the Government of Armenia. Specific activities which are non-
Bank financed are: (i)  the payments contributed by the communities towards the Computer Revolving
Fund; and (ii)the operational costs of the ATC Center andNational Center for EducationalTechnologies
which will be born by the central government and potentially other private or donor resources. Intotal,
the non-Bank financed activities relatedto the Project are estimated to value US$2.7 million.




                                                   43

                            Table A: ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                                (US$ millionequivalent)


                                                         Procurement Method'

  Expenditure Category            ICB                NCB               Other2               N.B.F.            Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00              0.49             0.15                   0.00                 0.64
                                  (0.00)            (0.44)           (0.14)                 (0.00)               (0.58)
2. Goods                           6.86              0.29              1.05                  0.00                 8.20
                                  (6.86)            (0.29)           (1.OS)                 (0.00)               (8.20)
- ITequipment                      6.86              0.00             0.15                   0.00                 6.92
                                  (6.86)            (0.00)           (0.15)                 (0.00)               (6.92)
- other Equipment                  0.00              0.29              0.86                  0.00                 1.15
                                  (0.00)            (0.29)           (0.86)                 (0.00)               (1.15)
3. Technical Assistance            0.00              0.00             3.01                   0.00                 3.01
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.85)                 (0.00)               (2.85)
- foreign TA                       0.00              0.00              1.05                  0.00                 1.05
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.05)                 (0.00)               (1.05)
- local TA                         0.00              0.00              1.95                  0.00                 1.95
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.80)                 (0.00)               (1-80)
4. Training                        0.00              0.00              3.82                  0.00                 3.82
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.82)                 (0.00)               (3.82)
- foreign Training                 0.00              0.00              0.19                  0.00                 0.19
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.19)                 (0.00)               (0.19)
- local Training                   0.00              0.00              3.62                  0.00                 3.62
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.62)                 (0.00)               (3.62)
5. Rationalization                 0.00              0.00              1.87                  0.00                 1.87
Program
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.87)                 (0.00)               (1.87)
6. School Grants                   0.00              0.00              1.32                  0.00                 1.32
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.32)                 (0.00)               (1.32)
7. Operating Costs                 0.00              0.00              2.84                  0.00                 2.84
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.37)                 (0.00)               (0.37)

                     Total         6.86              0.78            14.06                   0.00                21.70
                                  (6.86)            (0.73)          (11.42)                 (0.00)              (19.01)

     'Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be fmanced by the Credit. All costs includecontingencies.

     'Includes civil works andgoodsto be procuredthrough intemationaVnationa1shopping, directcontracting,
     consultingservices, services of contractedstaffofthe projectmanagementoffice, training, technical assistance
     services, and incremental operating costs relatedto (i)
                                                           managingthe project, and(ii)re-lendingproject funds to local
     governmentunits.




                                                            44

                                 Table Al: ConsultantSelectionArrangements
                                            (US$ millionequivalent)


                                                           SelectionMethod
     ConsultantServices                                                                                     Total
   Expenditure Category          QCBS        QBS       SFB       LCS        CQ      Other       N.B.F.      Cost'
A. Firms                          0.66       0.00      0.00      0.06       0.48     0.55        0.00        1.75
                                 (0.66)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.05)     (0.39)   (0.51)      (0.00)      (1.61)
B. Individuals                    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      1.25       0.00        1.25
                                 (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)   (1.24)      (0.00)      (1.24)

                          Total   0.66       0.00      0.00      0.06       0.48      1.80       0.00        3.00
                                 (0.66)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.05)     (0.39)   (1.75)      (0.00)      (2.85)
    1\ Including contingencies
    Note:   QCBS = Quality- and Cost-BasedSelection
            QBS = Quality-based Selection
            SFB = Selectionunder aFixedBudget
            LCS = Least-CostSelection
            CQ = SelectionBasedon Consultants' Qualifications
            Other =Hiring of Government-OwnedOrganizations and Selectionof individual consultants (per Section
    V ofConsultantsGuidelines)
            N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed
    Figuresinparenthesisare the amountsto be fmancedby the Bank Credit.



    Review by the IDA ofProcurementDecisions

    Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement o f civil works, goods and services for the Project will be
    carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan, which will be updated as necessary and
    included in the progress reports for IDA review and approval.         IDA will review the procurement
    arrangements proposed by the Borrower, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and the
    scheduling o f the procurement processes, for its conformity with IDA Procurement and Consultant
    Guidelines, proposed implementation program and disbursement schedule. The following procurement
    actioddocumentation will be subject to Prior Review by IDA.


    (a)     Civil Works: Prior review of bidding document package (including inter alia, Invitationto Bid,
            Instructions to Bidders and Bid Data Sheet, General and Special Conditions o f Contract, Bid
            Forms,     Bill of Quantities, Technical Specifications),       Bid Evaluation Reports; and
            Recommendations of Contract award will be conducted for the first works contracted through
            NCB.
    (b)     Goods and Educational Software: Prior review o f bidding document package (including inter
            alia, Invitation to Bid, Instructions to Bidders and Bid Data Sheet, General and Special
            Conditions o f Contract, Bid Forms, Schedule of Requirements, Technical Specifications), Bid
            Evaluation Reports; Recommendations o f Contract award and draft Contract will be conducted
            for: (i)all ICB tenders (contracts above US$lOO,OOO);   (ii)firstcontractawardedthroughNCB;
            (iii)firsttwocontractsawardedthroughinternationalornationalshoppingprocedures; and(iv)
            all contracts awarded through the Direct Contracting method.
    (c)     ConsultantServices and Training: Prior review o f procurement documents and actions will be
            conducted for:




                                                       45

                Individual Consultant contracts of US$ 50,000 and above and for contracts with Firms
                valued at US$ 100,000 and above: (a) short listing criteria for consulting assignments, (b)
                Consultants Short Lists (three to six consultants per assignment); (c) complete Request
                for Proposal (RFP) package (including Invitation, Information to Consultants and Data
                Sheet, General and Special Conditions o f Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms,
                Financial Proposal standard forms, and draft Contract Agreement); (d) Terms o f
                Reference, including description of services, consultants' reporting requirements, and
                required qualifications o f consultants' key personnel; (e) Technical and Financial
                Evaluation Reports (including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract
                award; and (f) agreed Contract and Terms o f Reference;
                Individual Consultant contracts below US$ 50,000 and for contracts with Firms below
                US$ 100,000: (a) criteria for short listing consultants; and (b) Terms of Reference;
                Expendituresrelated to the provision o f Training - Terms of Reference, including budget;
                and
                For all Single Source Contracts for Consultant Services same requirements as for c) (i)
                                                                          -
                above.

Following the award o f procurement contracts, IDA reserves the right to conduct Prior Review of any
material modifications or waiver o f terms and conditions o f a contract which would result in a significant
change in the scope o f the contract (Terms o f Reference in the case of consultant services) and/or an
increaseor decreaseo f more than fifteen percent of the original contract amount.

Post-Review. Those contracts below IDA's prior review threshold, are subject to IDA's ex-post review.
Periodic ex-post review by IDA of not less than one in five procurement contracts will be undertaken
duringregular supervisionmissions.

CustomDutiesand Taxes

Inaccordance with Armenian legislation and regulations, the IDA-financed portion of goods and works
contracts is exempt from customs duties and VAT. The percentage not financed by the Bank is subject to
the prevailing taxes. The non-Bank financed portion o f the contract and applicable customs and taxes
will be financed by the Armenian Government contribution to the Project. Consultant or similar-type
contracts with Armenian residents are subject to local income taxes and the percentage o f eligible
expenditure from IDA has been reduced accordingly. The standard disbursement percentages as agreed
betweenthe Bank and IDA have been used for the purposes o f preparingthis Project.




                                                   46

                    Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'


     Expenditure                Contract Value              Procurement              ContractsSubject

       Category                   Threshold                                             to Prior Review
                                (US$ thousands)                 Method                   (US$ millions)
1. Works                            300                          NCB            Est. US$0.30million(fist NCB
                                                                                contract)
2. Goods                     Above 100                             ICB          Est.US$6.25million(All ICB,
                            Below 100(for printing and           NCB            DC, first two NCB, I S andNS
                         educationalsoftware)                                   contracts
                             Below 100
                               Below 50                             IS
                                                                    N S
3. Services                  Above 100                      With Firms          Est.US$0.92 million (Firms: all
                               Above 50                        With IC          contractsUS$O.1and above, all
                                                                                SSS contracts, and IC all
                                                                                contracts US$O.OS and above)
4. .Training                       N/A                                          Est. US$3.52 million (All
                                                                                activitieswill be subject to prior
                                                                                review)




  ActionPlan for Strengthening Agency's Capacityto ImplementProjectProcurement

  Based on an appraisal o f the capacity o f the CEP to manage and conduct procurement, and the
  information gathered, the following actions were identified and recommendations made for improvingthe
  CEP institutional capacity in this field: (i)to hire an additional competitively selected procurement
  specialist, with TOR preliminary agreed with the Bank; and (ii)   to ensure procurement training for both
  CEP procurement specialists.

                     Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$10.99 million

                                 Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

  Frequency o f procurement supervision missionsproposed: One every six months(includes special
  procurement supervision for post-review/audits).




                                                     47

                                   Annex 9: Economicand FinancialAnalysis
                                  ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance


Economic Analysis

Although average levels o f education in Armenia are still among the highest inthe former Soviet Union,
the experience of its education system since the onset of transition does not compare favorably with that
o f the rest o f the region. A crisis in funding has resulted not only in falls in enrolment rates but also
(reflecting deterioration in school infrastructure, inadequate investment inteacher training, the collapse of
teachers' salaries, and lack o f textbooks and materials) a significant fall in quality - undocumented but
undoubted.

The Project accordingly has the dual aim o f improving the quality of education and its relevance to the
emerging knowledge economy (via development of a national curriculum and assessment system,
integration of information and communication technology into the teaching and learning process and
modernization o f teaching practices) and o f carrying forward reforms to improve the efficiency of the
education system.

The project's two aims are interconnected. Quality improvements will come from reforms o f curricula
and assessment, teacher training, etc., but will also depend on a substantial increase in teachers' salaries,
which are deplorably low. Faster growth of GDP, an increase inthe share o f the state budget in GDP and
an increase in spending on education as a percentage of that budget could provide some of the resources
for this purpose, but some will have to come from improvements in the efficiency o f the education
system.

A cosffbenefit framework

Since an ambition of the Project is to help to change the comparative advantage o f the Armenian
economy (see below), use o f formal codbenefit analysis (a partial-equilibrium technique) is impossible.
However, codbenefit is the appropriate qualitative framework within which to assess the project.

The expected benefits ofthe Project can best be analyzed through a comparison ofthe without-project and
with-project situation. The without-project situation would be one o f partially improved quality and
half-finished reform3. Schools would have textbooks but would not have fully addressed the need for
change incurricula and assessment; teachers would be underpaid, aging, old-fashioned intheir approach,
and demoralized; the decentralized per capita financing scheme would be generalized but not used to
improve efficiency;      in short, the forces underlying the memorization-based, 'factology' approach to
learning, inappropriate to the emerging knowledge economy, would remain in place. The with-project
situation, on the other hand, would be one in which teachers, transformed by an exciting form o f on-the-
job training would work with new curricula and assessment practices and ICT-based materials, as well as


3        The 1997-2002 Education Financing and Management Reform Project launched a valuable textbook
scheme and successfully implemented a decentralizedpeu capita financing (PCF) system inmore than 300 pilot
schools. Schools participating inthe PCF system have enjoyed their new flexibility and autonomy. Duemainly to
weaknesses indata collection, there is no evidence as yet o f a dramatic increase inpupil/ teacher ratios in such
schools, nor of an increase inrecruitment o f younger teachers. Teachers in PCF schools are reportedto have
enjoyed a small increase insalaries, but expenditure data are not yet available to measure the impact o f the system
on efficiency. Ingeneral, the impression is that a second project is neededto ensure that generalization o f the
system yields the expected efficiency gains. Certainly, the Government got sufficient positive feedback that they
decided to extend the pilot to all schools.


                                                         48

the already functioning textbook system, within schools that are autonomous and efficient: class sizes
and pupil-teacher ratios would be such as to release resources for school directors and boards to increase
salaries without jeopardizing productive non-salary expenditure.

The Project'simpacton learningoutcomes

Data on the performance of Armenian students compared with those in other countries are lacking.
However, there i s widespread agreement that general education has fallen to a low level and that it is of
little relevance to the market economy (for example, the recent Education Sector Review (UNDP 2001)).
The thrust of the project is therefore to support a shift in learning strategies and outcomes from those
which generate old skills (rote learning, use of invariant sources, working alone, routine and unchanging
modes o f operation) to those which generate new skills (problem-solving, critical use of diverse sources,
collaboration and teamwork, flexible and self-correcting modes o f operation). The underlyingassumption
i s that the use o f ICT in teaching, while not automatically causing such a shift, will strongly support a
move by teachers inthis direction. Some teachers can and will work inthese ways without ICT, but it will
be difficult and they will have trouble explaining to their peers how they do it. With ICT, both the process
of teaching this way and the process of explaining itto peer teachers become immensely easier.

A key competence that would be nurturedby the proposed shift in teaching and learning strategies is
reading literacy - defined as 'the ability to understand, use and reflect on written texts in order to achieve
one's goals, to develop one's knowledge and potential, and to participate effectively in society' (OECD
2001:21). Improvement in reading-literacy performance would be likely to have a positive impact on
labor-market outcomes. The OECD International Adult Literacy Survey (OECD and Statistics Canada
2000) found that reading literacy levels can help to predict how well people will do in the labor market
over and above what can be predicted from their educational qualifications alone.

The Project'simpacton labor-marketoutcomes

Impact on labor-market outcomes can be analyzed within various frameworks. The most common is
rate-of-return analysis, which focuses on the impact o f education on earnings in relation to cost. To
judge from the results o f the recent Education, Poverty and Economic Activity Survey in Table 1, the
returns to education in relation to its cost are quite high for young males who get jobs (although
diminishing as the level increases). Young women o f all educational levels earn substantially less than
men, but also gain a reasonable rate of return ontheir highereducation.




                                                     49

                  Table 2: Average annualearnings and return per unitof cost of education
                         16-33 year-olds withjobs, by gender and level of education, 2001

                                1. Average        2. Impact on         3. Annual         4. Totalcost        5. Return per
('000 AMD)                         annual          earnings of             cost                 of         unit of cost (2 + 4)
                                  earnings          this level        to student of         this level
                                                                        this level
Male
 Incompletesecondary                    240.4                                   47.4
 Secondary                               3 12.5            +72.1                141.0              300.3                  24.0%
 Secondaryvocational                     387.1           +146.8                 178.4              751.O                  19.5%
 Higher                                  669.7           +357.2                 582.7             2924.9                  12.2%
Female
 Incompletesecondary                        ...                                 47.4
 Secondary                               144.8                 ...              141.0              300.3                       ...
 Secondaryvocational                     160.9                 ...              178.4              751.O                       ...
 Higher                                 461.0            +3 16.2                582.7             2924.9                  10.8%
Both sexes
 Incompletesecondary                        ...                                 47.4
  Secondary                             253.0                  ...              141.0              300.3                       ...
  Secondaryvocational                   251.4                  ...              178.4              751.O                       ...
 Higher                                  542.6           +289.7                 582.7             2924.9                    9.9%
  Notes: The return per unit of cost in column 5 is based on the  'I xt-cut' formula for rate of returnwhen data on earnings are
  available only for a-single year. Impact on earnings and total cost of both secondary and secondary vocational is measured in
  comparisonwith incomplete secondary, and of higher education incomparisonwith secondary.
  ,.. numberofrepliesfromwomen too small for statistical significance.
  Source: UNDP (2001a:Table 62) and EPEAS database.


  The probability o f gettingajob also has to be taken into account. Unemploymentrates are highestamong
  the young - 59 percent for the'16-25 age group compared with the overall rate o f 32 percent in 2001
  (according to the Labor Force Survey). However, unemployment rates4 tend to fall as the level o f
  education increases, tojudge from the EPEAS data shown inTable 2.

      Table3: Unemploymentrate, by gender and levelof education,16-33year-olds, 2001
       r                                                         I                  1     Female       I Bothsexes       I
         Some secondary                                                48.5%              68.2%             56.3%
         Some secondaryvocational                                      46.3%              54.9%             51.6%
         Some higher
                  -                                                    27.9%              32.1%             30.1%
         Total                                                         43.5%              54.5%             48.8%



  Thus, for its impact both on the chances of getting ajob and on salary, perseverance with schooling (to
  higher education ifpossible) seems to pay off. The reforms envisaged by the Project should work to the
  advantage o f females, who already outstrip males in reading literacy in all 31 countries in the OECD
  PISA sample (OECD 2001:Table 5. la). Evidence from a front-running transition economy (Hungary)



  4         The unemploymentrates inTable 3 are self-reported: unemployment rates onthe ILO definition (both 'not
  working' and 'seekingwork') are likely to be lower.


                                                               50

suggests that young women with new types of skills do particularly well in a labor market undergoing
transformation(Kertesi and Kollo 1999).

            Table 4: Distribution of povertywithin each educationcategory, 1999and 2001

                         Higher            2ndary vocational       2ndary general           Elementary
                     1999       2001        1999        2001        1999       2001       1999       2001
  Non-poor           57%         66%        47%         5 1%        43%        46%        43%        42%
  Poor               29%        25%         33%         34%         32%        38%        32%        43%
  Very poor          14%         9%         20%         15%         25%         16%       25%         15%



However, the EPEAS results suggest that there may be problems with quality o f education: as Table 5
shows, for 13-33 year-olds with jobs, dispersion o f earnings within each of the top four educational
quintiles was higher than the ratio o f average earnings inthe top to those inthe bottom quintile -which is
consistent withvariations inquality o f education at each level.

                 Table 5: Distribution of average monthly earnings by years of schooling
                                       13-33 year-olds with jobs, 2001

                                                   Average       Average monthly          Ratio of average
                                                   years of        income(AMD)          earnings of top 5%
                                                   schooling                             to those of bottom
                                                                                          5% within each
                                                                                              quintile
 Bottomquintile(20 percentwith fewest                  9.3               9,131                   5.9
 years of schooling)                                  10.1              30,050                   7.5
 Second quintile                                      11.8              19,896                  12.6
 Third quintile                                       14.1              23,359                  13.4
 Fourth quintile                                      16.3              61,352                  26.9
 Top quintile (20 percent with most years of
 schooling)
 jource: UNDP(2001a:Table 61).

A second framework within which the potential impact of the Project's investment in education can be
analyzed i s that of growth theory. A recent study (Iradian 2003) uses an endogenous growth model and
cross-country regressions (covering 50 countries) to explore the determinants of Armenia's recent rapid
growth and the prospects for sustaining this growth inthe future. Three main factors are found to explain
the strong growth performance: the catching-up processfollowing the sharp decline inoutput inthe early
1990s (estimated to account for almost a third of the average annual growth in 1994-2001 o f CIS
countries inthis situation); sound macro-economic policies (reflected inrelatively low inflation and small
fiscal deficits); and the large private transfers in recent years (reflected in a high investment rate - much
higher than the national savings rate). Looking to the future, the impact o f the catching-up process on
Armenian growth i s expected to decline gradually and disappear by 2005, sound macro-economic policies
are expected to continue, but there is a question mark (given low birth and highemigration rates) over the
possibility of raising national savings rates sufficiently to strengthen the foundations for sustained
economic expansion. This means that increases intotalfactorproductivity will have to play a crucial role
in long-term growth performance:         these increases can come from allocation of resources to more
productive uses (e.g., through greater efficiency in financial intermediation) or from the upgrading o f
technologies.     The share of growth derived from improved resource allocation has been falling.




                                                       51

Upgrading of technologies will be o f increasing importance. This is where improvements in the quality
of education resulting from the Project will come in.

A third analytical framework that is relevant is that o f internationaltrade theory. The widespread
acquisition of the new skills already discussed, together with an increase indigital literacy and fluency in
foreign languages5,would help to shift the structure o f the Armenian economy. International evidence,
including the experience of the East Asian economies, cross-country regressions and many country case
studies, suggests that the development o f relevant skills i s a necessary condition for transition from cheap-
labor-based to skill-based competitiveness (Godfrey 1997). At present, as the recent Country Study
points out (World Bank 2002:45), the industrial and export structure is out o f line with potential
comparative advantage. The leading sub-sectors are miningand metallurgy (for which Armenia does not
have a sufficiently strong mineral base and which are hindered by high transportation costs), power
generation (based on wasting assets inherited from Soviet times), and food processing (inconsistent with
the mountainous terrain). Given the country's factor endowments and geographical situation, its potential
comparative advantage is in 'high value-added and skill demanding, light-weight' sectors (World Bank
2002:46).

One o f the most promising of such sectors is the software industry,which has expanded fast since 19976.
It is still small: its exports were estimated at between US$15 million and US$ 20 million in 1999, and it
had only about 1,000 employees, but it is growing fast (contributing to an increase in earnings o f services
exports from US$ 136 million to US$ 187 million between 2000 and 2001) and attracting strong interest
from Western companies: it could have favorable indirect effects on the rest of the economy in terms o f
productivity and global linkages.

An indicator of distortion inthe economy and labor market is the large proportion ofArmenians working
abroad and the huge inflow o f remittances (already mentioned above): the IMF estimates net private
transfers at US$110 million in 2003, but gross inflows may be four times this figure, which would be not
far short of total export earnings. This makes it likely that the economy is suffering from 'Dutch disease',
with remittances pulling resources towards sectors directly or indirectly relating to them (particularly
construction and trade in imported goods) and supporting the exchange rate at a level which makes it
more difficult for other sectors to compete inforeign markets or with imports. The incidence of overseas
migration is highest among the unschooled but around half of migrants have at least secondary and
around 30 percent have some higher education (World Bank 2002b:Box 2.1). An increase inthe quality
of education would have several effects. it would make educated Armenians more employable abroad
but, by increasing the demand for such workers at home, would reduce the relative attraction o f overseas
jobs. Ifremittances fell as a consequence, the economy could throw off its Dutch disease, to the benefit
of its competitiveness in new products and services, reinforcing the increase in the national demand for
labor resultingfrom an improvement inthe quality o f education.

The obstacles to the faster expansion of the sectors o f potential comparative advantage, including
software, are many. They include the continued weakness of the basic institutions needed to support a
market economy, the replacement o f central regulation by excessive and unpredictable decentralized
regulation, tax problems, political and policy uncertainty, high interest rates, bad roads, customs
procedures, and corruption. As Armenia moves along its reform path and these constraints are eased,
however, the importance of improving the quality of education, through replacement of old skills by new,
will become increasingly urgent. Thus, the Project could contribute not only to an improvement in the


5         The EPEAS found that only 46 percent ofrespondentsaged 13-33 describedthemselves as 'fluent' or
'good' inRussianand only 11percent inEnglish. These percentagesneedto be increasedconsiderably for effective
participationinthe globalknowledge economy.
6         See SETA (2000) and UNDP (2001~:103-107) for assessments of,the sector.


                                                     52

chances o f school-leavers finding good jobs within the existing economic structure, but also to higher
growth rates due to increases in total factor productivity, and to a transformation o f the structure of the
economy through the realization of Armenia's potential (high-productivity and high-skill) comparative
advantage.

costs

Inrelationto these potential benefits, the project loan-funded cost inthe first four-year phase ofUS$ 19.0
million (of which US$ 2.2 million on curriculum and assessment, US$ 7.0 million on ICT in education,
US$4.9 million on teacher training, US$ 3.6 million on ongoing support to reforms, and US$ 1.3 million
on project management), plus US$ 2.7 million in Armenian counterpart financing, is relatively small.
Additional costs, however, will be generated for government and, since in the longer run many o f the
institutions and activities initiated by the project will be partly self-financing, as well for parents,
enterprises, donors and communities. These cost issues are discussedinmore detail inthe next section.

Fiscal implications

The activities proposed by the Project will have fiscal implications for the Government, both during and
after the project period.

During the first phaseof the Project

The cost tables produced by the MOES indicate that 12 percent of the cost o fthe project inthe first four-
year phase will be financed by the Government. This contribution i s mainly for the running costs of the
proposed Assessment and Testing Center, and the network operating system. At only 0.3 percent of the
projected education budget over the first-phase period, the total burden of this co-financing looks
tolerable.

After the first phase of the Project

However, the activities proposed by the Project will have several fiscal implications for Government
beyond the life of the Project. For example:

-    the expense o f runningthe Assessment and Testing Center, estimated at around US$ 478,000 a year,

-    will pass to government;
     the new Curriculum Development Unit within the Center for Educational Research will cost about
     US$20,400 annually;
-    the operational costs of the National ICT Center and the Network Operation Center will amount to
     some US$166,600 per year;
-    the Education Management Information System will be transferred to the Ministry o f Education and
     Science at an annual cost o f about US$ 10,000;
-    maintenance of the computers purchasedthrough the CRF will cost about US$610,000 annually; and
-    connectivity operating costs for project schools will continue at an annual rate o f some US$284,400.

Thus atotal ofover US$ 1.5 million will be addedto annual educational expenditure by specific activities
initiated by the Project, about one percent of the estimated total education budget for 2009. N o provision
for redundancy payments beyond the end o f the project period has been made in the above calculations -
though the statutory minimumpayments are small.

In addition, two Revolving Funds (for Computers and Textbooks) will continue after the Project closes.
Schools will be responsible for making payments to maintain these Fund balances. In the existing


                                                     53

Textbook Fund, however, these payments are collected from parents and the same i s planned for the
Computer Fund.

Moreover, the costs quoted above do not include the costs o f replicating the Project throughout the
general education system - which is the intention. This will be expensive: extending school internet
connections to the remaining 90 percent o f schools would cost more than US$ 18 million and their annual
connectivity costs may exceed US$ 2.5 million, a further US$ 1 million would be needed to train all
teachers of the eight targeted subjects in ICT methods, some US$ 600,000 would need to be added to the
annual budget for staff development and in-service training, at least US$ 100,000 annually could usefully
support stakeholder dialogue, school/teacher networking and policy discussions following the project
interventions, etc.. Ifthe internet connections are spread over ten years and the teacher training over five,
the replication o f the Project may cost about 4 percent o f the estimated 2009 budget for education, or 5
percent o f the general education budget alone. However, some o f this could be funded by a loan in the
later phases o f the APL and some o fthis could be funded from non-budget sources.

Teachers' salaries

On balance, there is likely to be little scope for an increase in the proportion of the government general
education budget available for salaries - 79 percent of total expenditure in 2002 - and indeed that there
will be pressure to reduce it. This is potentially worrying because a substantial increase in teachers'
salaries (averaging 15,900 ADM - about US$ 28 - per month in 2002) could be regarded as a necessary
condition for the improvement in educational quality which the project is aiming at. Between 1989 and
1999, the average wage in education inArmenia fell from 70 percent of the national average wage to 50
percent. Inrealterms, the average wage in education fell by 64 percent inthis period. It i s not surprising,
inthese circumstances, that 75 percent of applicants for places inpedagogical institutions (from EPEAS)
and 84 percent o f teachers (from EMIS data) are female.

The scope for salary increases

The scope for finding funds to increase teacher salaries depends (as Perkins and Yemtsov showed in a
comprehensive earlier projection model) on:

-   the rate o f growth of GDP;
-   the percentage ofGDP representedby government revenue and hence expenditure;
-   the share o feducation inthe government budget; and
-   the number ofteachers.

Table 5 shows projections o f average salaries for teachers and non-teachers ingeneral education, based on
the assumptions o f the 2004-2006 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (and o f the IMF thereafter)
about growth rates and total and education budgets. The number of teachers and non-teachers is derived
from the MTEF target pupil/ staff ratios, extrapolated beyond 2006. The proportion of general education
budgets going to salaries is assumedto fall to the OECD average level after 2006. As can be seen, over
the whole 2002-2012 period, in spite of the reduction in the share o f salaries in total expenditure, the
increases inpupil/ staff ratios, alongside a 33 percent reduction inthe number of pupils, yield falls in staff
numbers of 52 percent for teachers and 45 percent for non-teachers, and substantial increases in average
salaries -nine-fold for teachers and eight-fold for non-teachers.




                                                     54

 Table 5: Projectionsof pupil/ teacher and pupil/non-teacher ratiosand average salariesingeneral
                              education, MTEFand beyond,2002-2012                                  -
                             -
                             2002     2003   2004  2005    2006  2007   -----
                                                                        2008   2009   2010   2011 2012

                                      ~
PupiVFTE teacher ratios       10.9     11.7  13.7   15.1   15.1   15.1   15.1  15.1    15.1  15.1   15.1
PupiliFTE non-teacher         18.2     19.6  22.0  22.0    22.0   22.0  22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0
ratios
No. of teachers ('000 FTE)    47.7     43.9  37.4  33.0    31.0   29.8  28.1   26.5    25.1  24.1   22.9
No. of non-teachers ('000     28.5     26.2  23.3  22.7    21.3   20.5   19.3  18.2    17.2  16.6   15.7
FTE)
Average salary per FTE        15       19     31    48      53     62    77     90     104   118    137
teacher (AMD '000 per
month)
Average salary per FTE         8                                   28    35     41      47    54     62
non-teacher(AMI) '000 per
month)                       -                                   ------
Source: Mission estimates.


Overall, the messageo f these projections is encouraging. Assumingbudget projections and rationalization
targets are met, there should be sufficient resources to increase the proportion of the general education
budget going on quality enhancing non-salary costs and to allow teachers' wages to overtake GDP per
capita by 2005 and to exceed it by 78 percent in2012.




                                                   55

          Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
        ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance



N.A.




                        56

                            Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                             ARMENIA: EducationQuality & Relevance


                                                         Planned              Actual
PCNreview                                              May 27,2002         May 30,2002
Initial PID to PIC                                                         June 3,2002
Initial ISDS to PIC                                                      September 10,2002
Appraisal                                            September 1,2003    September 3,2003
Negotiations                                         November 3,2003     December2,2003
BoarcURVPapproval                                     January 22,2004
Planneddate of effectiveness                           May 31,2004
Planneddate of mid-term review                         May 31,2006
Plannedclosing date                                  November 30,2008


Key institutions responsible for preparation o f the project:

Ministry o f Education and Science, Armenia
Center for Education Projects, Armenia
Center for Education Reform, Armenia

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:


 Name                                                     Title                  Unit
 Toby Linden                         Task Team Leader                          ECSHD
 Virginia Jackson                    Senior Operations Officer                 ECSHD
 KariHurt                            Operations Officer                        ECSHD
 Pasi Sahlberg                       Senior Education Specialist               ECSHD
 Susanna Hayrapetyan                 Operations Officer                        ECSHD
 Arvo Kuddo                          Senior Labor Economist                    ECSHD
 Alexander Astvatsatryan             Procurement Officer                        ECSPS
 Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza           Senior Counsel                            LEGEC
 Andrina Ambrose                     Senior Finance Officer                    LOAG1
 EkaterinaArsenyeva                  Financial ManagementSpecialist             ECSPS
 Anna Goodman                        ProgramAssistant                          ECSHD


Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:

     1. Bank resources:          US$348,646.91
     2. Trust funds:                    6,000.00
     3. Total:                   US$354,646.91


Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:

1. Remainingcosts to approval: 0
2. Estimated annual supervision cost: US$lOO,OOO




                                                      57

                            Annex 12: Documents in the Project File


                            ARMENIA: EducationQuality8z Relevance


Berryman, Sue et al. 2002. TheArmenia Education System: Public Expenditure Review. (May).
Burnett,Nicholas andRodicaCnobloch. 2003. Public Spendingon Education in thePoorest CIS-7
Countries: TheHidden Crisis. World Bank: WashingtonDC

European Training Foundation. 2003. "Tacis Action Programme 2002-2003:Republic of Armenia: Area
of Co-operation: Social Consequences of Transition: Terms of Reference: Support to the Development of
an IntegratedVET System"

Hykin, Josephine.2002. "Armenia: EducationSector Study andAnalysis". Report dated 7/02
Godfrey, Martin (ed.), 1997,Skill Developmentfor International Competitiveness,Cheltenham, Edward
Elgar.

Government o f Armenia. 2003. Project Implementation Plan (draft November)

Government o f Armenia. 2003. Poverty ReductionStrategyPaper. Yerevan.

Government o f Armenia. 2003. Higher EducationReform Strategy (draft November)

Government o f Armenia 2003. Letter of Development Policy. Letter from the Minister of Education and
Scienceto Toby Linden, World Bank (November 04,2003).

Government o f Armenia. 2002. Medium TermExpenditure Framework 2003-2005. Yerevan.
International Monetary Fund, 2002, WorldEconomic Outlook 2002, WashingtonD.C., IMF.
Iradian, Garbis, 2003, Armenia: the Road to Sustained Rapid Growth, Cross-country Evidence, IMF
Working PaperWPlO31103, WashingtonD.C., IMF.
Kertesi, Ghbor and Jhnos Kollo, 1999, Economic Transformation and the Return to Human Capital: the
Case o f Hungary, 1986-1996, Budapest Working Papers on the Labour Market, 1999/6, Budapest,
Labour ResearchDepartment, Institute o f Economics, HungarianAcademy o f Sciences.

OECD and Statistics Canada, 2000, Literacyinthe InformationAge: Final Report of the
InternationalAdult LiteracySurvey, Paris, OECD.
OECD, 2001, Knowledge and Skillsfor Life: First Resultsfiom PISA 2000, Paris, OECD.
Perkins, Gillian, and Ruslan Yemtsov, 2001, Armenia: Restructuring to Sustain Universal General
Education, World Bank Technical PaperNo. 498, Washington D.C., World Bank.
SETA, 2000, Republic of Armenia: ICTAssessment, Yerevan, USAID.
UNDP, 2001,Armenia: Education Sector Review,mimeo, Yerevan, UNDP.
UNDP, 2001a, Report on Education, Poverty and Economic Activity Survey (EPEAS), mimeo, Yerevan,
UNDP.

UNDP, 2001c, 10 Years of Independence and Transition in Armenia: National Human Development
Report 2001, Yerevan, UNDP.
World Bank. 2002a. Armenia Poverty Update. Human Development Sector Unit,ECA Region.
World Bank. 2002b. Growth Challenges and GovernmentPolicies in Armenia. Washington DC.
World Bank. 2003a. Armenia Poverty Assessment. Washington DC.


                                                 58

World Bank.2003b. Achieving the Human DevelopmentMDGs in ECA. (Manuscript dated 1/9)
World Bank. 2003c. Implementation CompletionReportfor Armenia EducationReform and
Management Project. WashingtonDC.
World Bank. 2003d. Lifelong Learning in the GlobalKnowledge Economy: Challengesfor Developing
Countries.WashingtonDC.

World Bank. 2003c. ProcurementAssessment ofthe center for EducationProjects(November 2003).




                                               59

                                          Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                        ARMENIA: EducationQuality& Relevance

                                                                                                                   Differencebetween
                                                                                                                   expected and actual
                                                             OriginalAmount inUS%Millions                            disbursements

ProjectID   FY    Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA      SF      GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO75758    2003   SAC 5                                      0.00    40.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     21.17     -0.61       0.00

PO55022    2002   IRRIGDEVT                                  0.00    24.86    0.00     0.00      0.00     22.28     2.42        0.00

PO57847    2002   NAT RES MGMT                               0.00     8.30    0.00     0.00      0.00     9.02      -0.29       0.00

PO69917    2002   NAT RES MGT (GEF)                          0.00     0.00    0.00     5.12      0.00      5.58     -0.06       0.00

PO76543    2002   FIEF LIL                                   0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.90       0.16       0.00

PO44852    2002   ENT INCUBATOR LIL                          0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     4.84       2.36       0.00

PO57838    2001   JUDICIAL REFORM                            0.00    11.40    0.00     0.00      0.00     9.81      -2.06       0.00

PO57952    2000   SIF 2                                      0.00    20.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     12.65     -9.53       0.00

PO44829    2000   TRANSPORT                                  0.00    40.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     19.79    -20.51       0.00

PO08276    1999   ELEC TRANSM & DISTR                        0.00    21.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     17.78     17.99       0.34

PO64879    1999   IRRIGDAMSAFETY                             0.00    26.60    0.00      0.00     0.00     11.59      4.27       0.00

PO57560    1999   TITLE REG                                  0.00     8.00    0.00     0.00      0.00      1.36      1.40       0.00

PO35805    1998   MUNDEVT                                    0.00    30.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     13.57     10.46        0.00

PO35806    1998   AGR REF SUPPORT                            0.00     14.50   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.81      0.93       -0.06

PO50140    1998   HEALTH                                     0.00     10.00   0.00      0.00     0.00      0.41      0.94        0.32

                                                  Total:     0.00   260.66    0.00      5.12     0.00    151.56      7.87        0.60




                                                            ARMENIA
                                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                                     In Millionsof US Dollars


                                                             Committed                                Disbursed

                                                            IFC                                     IFC

       FY Approval   Company                    Loan       Equity     Quasi    Partic.  Loan        Equity     Quasi     Partic,

       2002         ACBA Leasing                2.00         0.27       0.00    0.00       0.00      0.27       0.00       0.00

       2000         Hotel Armenia               0.00         0.00       3.57    0.00       0.00      0.00       3.57       0.00

                               Total portfolio:  2.00        0.27      3.57     0.00       0.00      0.27       3.57       0.00




                                                                          Approvals Pending Commitment

                      FY Approval   Company                           Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic.

                      2002         Armenia SME Fund                0.00          3.75        1.25        0.00
                                                             I




                                         Total pendingcommitment:     0.00       3.75        1.25        0.00

                                                 Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                        ARMENIA: Education Quality & Relevance


                                                               Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central    Low.
                                                      Armenia     Asia   income         Development diamond*
2001
Population. mid-year (millions)                            3.8      475     2,511                       Life expectancy
GNIper capita (Atlas method, US%)                         570      1,960     430
GNI (Atlas method, US%billions)                            2.2      930     1,069                              -
Average annual growth, 1995-01

Population (%)                                             0.2       0.1       1.9
Laborforce(%)                                              -1.9      0.6      2.3       GNI                                     Gross
                                                                                        per                                    primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                capita                               nrollment
Poverty (%of population belownationalpovertyline)           51
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                      67        63        31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                            74        69        59
Infant mortality (per I000 livebirths)                      15       20        76
Chiidmalnutrition (%of childrenunder5)                       3                               Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwatersource (%ofpopulation)           93        90        76
Illiteracy(%o fpopulationage 59                              2         3       37
Gross primaryenroliment (%of school-age population)        92        a 2       96             -Armenia
   Male                                                              9 3      9 3                        Lowinco megroup
                                                                                                ~
   Female                                                            9 1       88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS

                                                1981     1991     2000      2001
                                                                                        Economic ratios'
GDP (US%billions)                                          3.1       19        2.1
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                        ..   39.8      18.6     18.6
                                                                                                             Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                    ..   40.7      23.4     25.6
Gross domestic savingslGDP                           ..   20.4      -8.5     -1.7
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                            4.1      9.5

Current account balance/GDP                                        -14.6     -9.5       Domestic
interest payments/GDP                                                O S      0.8                                           Investment
                                                                                        savings
Total debt/GDP                                                      50.7     47.3
Total debt service/exports                                           7.7      8.o                              i
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                            31.3     27.7
Presentvalue of debtlexports                                       96.7      89.9
                                                                                                          Indebtedness
                                      1981-91 1991-01   2000       2001 2001-05
(average annualgmMh)
                                                                                                 -Armenia
GDP                                                1.6     6.0       9.6
_GDP..percapita.
           ..                                      1.2     5.9       9.7                                   Lowincome group
                                                                                                   ~
                      .    ,

STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                1981     1991     zoo0      2001        Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)                                                                                 -
Agriculture                                         ..    25.0      25.5     27.7       30

Industry                                            ..    49.2      35.4     34.2       20-
  Manufacturing                                     ..    37.3      24.1     22.4      i o
                                                                                        10
Services                                            ..    25.8      39.0     38.1

Private consumption                                 ..     61.1     96.7     91.0                   96    97    98    99     00    01

Generalgovemment consumption                        ..    18.5      118      a.7
Imports of goods and services                       ..    60.1      50.5     45.9                      -GDi          -GDP             I
                                             1981-91 1991-01      2000     Z O O 1    j                                               I
(averageannualgroMh)                                                                    Growth of exports and imports (%)
                                                                                      1
Agriculture                                                1.6      -2.4     11.6       40.
Industry                                                  -2.1       8.1      6.8
  Manufacturing                                     .,    -0.8       6.4      3.8
Services                                            ..     6.4      11.0      8.O

Private consumption                                        1.5       5.9     15.2
Generalgovemment consumption                              -1.4      -0.3      3.3   ,-60  -
Gross domestic investment.                           ,   -9.0       8.7     24.8
                                                                                                    --Exports        -Inports
Imports of goods and services                      ..     -9.2      10.0       2.1




                                                                      61

                                                                                                           Armenia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1981   1991    2000    2001
Domestic prices
(%change)
Consumer prices                                     84.1    -0.8      3.1
Implicit GDP deflator                               79.4     -1.5    4.0

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes current grants)
Current revenue                                      5.4     16.7   16.3
Current budget balance                               -1.9    0.4     0.3     1       -GDPdeflator      -CPi              I
Overall surplusldeficit                              -1.8   -4.9    -4.3


TRADE
                                            1981   1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                                2,904     301    342                                                  II
                                                                              ,000 -
 Gold,jewelry, and other precious stones                     121     a 3
 Machineryand mechanicalequipment                             31     43
 Manufactures                                                 77      89
Total imports @if)                                 4,286    685     877
 Food                                                       220      211
 Fuel and energy                                     551     174     187
 Capital goods                                               140      62

Export price index(895=X)O)                                                         95  96    97  98   99   00

Import price index(895=WO)                                                                 Exports      IInports
Terms of trade (895=rOO)


B A L A N C E of P A Y M E N T S
                                            1981   1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP      ( O h )


Exports of goods and services                               447     540        0
Imports of goods and services                                966    978
Resource balance                                            -579   -438       -5


Net income                                                    53      64      10
Net current transfers                                        188     8 4
                                                                              15
Current account balance                                     -278    -201

Financing items (net)                                        295     217      20

Changes in net reserves                                      -8      -16      25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                      322     334
Conversion rate (DEC,locaUUSS)                   2.60E-2   539.5   555.1


EXTERNAL D E B T and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1981   1991    2000    2001
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed                        989     1,001
  IBRD                                                         8       7                     G42 A 7
  IDA                                                       388     428                F 49

Total debt service                                           43       52
  IBRD                                                          1       1
  IDA                                                          3       3

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                             61      72
  Official creditors                                         97       59
  Private creditors                                           28       4
  Foreign direct investment                                  140      70
  Portfolio equity                                             0       0
                                                                                            c: 173
World Bank program
  Commitments                                                 71      75      A IBRD
                                                                                -                        E- Bilateral
  Disbursements                                              54       55      6-IDA    D-othadtilateral  F-Private
  Principalrepayments                                          0       0      C-IMF                      G- Short-term




                                                              62

Annex 15: Armenia EducationSector DevelopmentPolicy




                        63

                          ArmenianEducationSector DevelopmentPolicy


This letter describes the Government o f Armenia's education sector development policy and gives an
account o f the present status of the education system in the Republic o f Armenia within the context o f
society and governance. It outlines the Government's vision for the next ten years and also determines a
number of urgent priorities and reform strategies focused on development of general compulsory
secondary education. This letter draws heavily on existing government documents such as the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework.

Armenian EducationSystem

Education sector has been a most emphasized and prioritized in social and economic development
Armenia. Therefore, management and development of the educational system, along with assuring its
competitiveness internationally has been considered the issues of public and national importance. Further
development ofthe sector has been recognized as a priority o f the county's overall development.

The transition period has had a negative impact on Armenia's education system. Inparticular, qualitative
indicators of education have significantly deteriorated due to reduction of public expenditures. In spite of
the fact that over the last years there has been certain positive movement in dynamics o f public
expenditures in education, their level i s still only about half the average indicator of OECD countries
(expenditures provided in the state budget for education sector in 2003 comprises 2.17% o f GDP,
compared to 4.7% in OECD countries ). At the same time, the structure o f public budget allocation, by
different levels o f education, is comparable with indicators o f OECD countries: in 2003, about 79.4% o f
public allocation to education sector has been directed to general education sector, 18.2% to financing
vocational education programs (average indicators o f OECD countries being equal to 72% and 20%,
respectively).

At present, there are 1481 general education schools operating in the Republic, of which 17 are
elementary, 146 basic, and 1318 secondary schools. Inthe 2002-2003 academic year there were 520,579
students studying in general education institutions. Due to the decline of the birth rate and the level of
emigration, the overall number of school-aged children in the Republic has declined and is expected to
continue to do so, though there are signs that enrollment inthe early years i s steadying.

Overall enrollment rates in basic general education has been rather high. Inparticular, the results o f 2001
household survey show that inthe age group of 8-15 (age 8 i s the compulsory school starting age) the net
level of enrollment i s 98.7%. Enrollment in secondary school (including initial vocational education) has
not been changed significantly and has been fluctuating between the percentages o f 70-75%, which is
considered good for a country with Armenia's GDP per capita.

Operational efficiency of the educational system has been far from being satisfactory, in spite of the
Governments actions taken over the last years for improvement o fthe situation ineducation sector.

In 2002-03, 54,276 teachers were employed in general education sector. However, 4486 (8,3 %) were
employed for less than 0.5 nominal workloads, and 20188 (37,2 YO)for more than 1 nominal workload.
Although the number of students has decreased, the number o f teachers has declined more rapidly. The
number of students in 2002-2003, as compared to the previous year, has decreased by 2,8%, whereas the
number of teachers has decreased by 3'2%. According to initial data from 2003-2004 current academic


                                                     64

year the number o f students compared to 2002-2003 had decreased by 4,8%, whereas the number o f
teachers has decreased by 7,2%.
Due to excessive number o f teachers and schools, forced allocation and inefficient utilization of public
financial resources has taken place.

Among factors conditioning low level o fefficiency there are:

      (9       Low level o f studendteacher and studenthon-teacher ratios in general education schools,
               which ratios in 2002-2003 have been 10 and 21.2, respectively. These indicators are
               approximately 25 % below the respective average indicators of OECD countries, which
               themselves are considered inefficient;

      (ii) Lowlevelofteachers'teachingload,whichis 18hoursperweekandincolleges16hours
               per week, though taking into account also non-teaching and extracurricular work, indicators
               o f teaching load could reach the level o f 27 hours per week. For comparison, in OECD
               countries the rate is 38 hours per week, while in the public sector of the Republic o f
               Armenia the workload of employees, as a rule, i s 41hours per week.

      (iii) Low densitvofclasses(at present, averageclass density is 21 students). According to
               secondary education standard criteria, it should be 25-35 students (injunior grades) and 25-
               30 (in highgrades).

Low level o f teachers' remuneration i s also a matter of serious concern. The ratio of teachers' annual
salary per capita GDP in Armenia for 2003 has been 0.49, in contrast to the 0.97-1.45 ratios in OECD
countries. The teachers' salary has been low also due to their employment with incomplete workload.
Despite these salary levels and the harsh conditions o f the transition since Independence, teachers have
continued to teach. However, inevitably given the circumstances, the professional quality o f teachers and
the rating o f a teacher's profession have declined. Only 4-5% of teachers employed in general education
system take annual retraining courses. This i s highly unsatisfactory for assuring the 5-year cycle o f
retraining; moreover, the retrainingprocess itselfneeds certain improvement.

Teaching and learning in schools are characterized by irrelevance in terms o f content and methods, and
often inappropriate quality regardingthe needs of society and economy. Inaddition, there is no system for
assessment o f student achievement and knowledge incompliance with internationaltrends.

Duringthe transition period, insufficient allocationsfor maintenance and operationof buildings, including
heating costs, and for replenishment o f teaching materials have resulted in a worsening educational
infrastructure and environmentfor learning.

The Government of Armenia has taken several measures to address the challenges facing the education
sector, The Education Financing and Management Reform Project under the World Bank Credit
contributed to textbook provision through a rental scheme, introduction o f new financing schemes within
the sector, and decentralization of education administration (including training o f school principals and
board members in new management skills). At the same time several cooperating donor agencies have
made significant work in the field of introducing new teaching and learning methods in schools, training
teachers in information and communication technologies and assisted schools principals to develop new
management skills. Furthermore, the Government of Armenia hastaken an active role inrationalization of
the school system this year by decreasing the number o f teachers in schools and merged schools with
declining numbersof pupils.




                                                     65

Legaland PoliticalFramework

The Constitution o f the Republic o f Armenia, Article 35 defines that every citizen o f the Republic of
Armenia has the right to education, general education at the public educational institutions is free of
charge, and that every citizen ofthe Republic o f Armenia has the right to receive, on competitive grounds,
free higher and other professional education at public educational institutions. The above stated shows
that the special attention is paid to general education. The Law on Education (adopted on April 14, 1999)
together with related Government Degrees regulate the management o f education sector in Armenia.
Specifically, the Law on the Approval of the Government Program for Education Development in the
Republic of Armenia in 2001-2005 is the guiding legal document providing political framework for
developing education. The efficiency ineducation sector that is estimated as low, especially inthe case o f
human recourses use. The measures implementedby the Government o f Republic o f Armenia during last
years will be continued and improved in future. Of these measures are Government Decree N1236 "On
The Measures based on the Results o f the Implementation of the Experimental Reforms Program in
General Education System o f the Republic o f Armenia" dated 24.12.2001 and Government Decree 2047-
Ndated 5.12.2002 "On the Approval ofRationalization Program for 2003 for General Educationof RA
and Changes Conducted in Government Decree N1236 dated 24.12.2001" aimed to improve the current
situation inthe education system.

The newly completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) sets out a comprehensive and far-
reaching agenda for further sector reforms, which will be built into the forthcoming Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS).     The PRSP identifies quality and access to education as central concerns, with the
intention to increase educational attainment, raise the completion rate o f secondary education and boost
teacher salaries.

PolicyDevelopmentand EducationSector Reforms

Inthe framework ofthe overall education sector development a priority is further development of general
education system from the perspective o f improvingquality and efficiency. Equally accessible and high
quality general education system is an important precondition for (i)education o f the society and
improvement o f literacy ratio; (ii)ensuring initial knowledge necessary for entering labor market; and(iii)
furtheringeducation.

By solving enhancement of the quality of general education, the state will thus create sufficient
foundation for increasing enrollment rate in the senior school and professional education systems
particularly in view of children from vulnerable families. Development policy associated with these
reform priorities is as follows:


  0     Quality and Access

Armenian Government is committed to education sector policy that aims at improvingthe knowledge and
skills of citizens in order to be able to actively participate in individual development, civic society and
knowledge economy. As the mainvehicles o f this development, curriculum reform, systematic support to
teachers and schools, and evaluation of educational outcomes will be given the high priority. Two new
centers will be established to facilitate the intended developments. The National Center for Educational
Technologies will assist schools in every part of Armenia in making information and communication
technologies available for all pupils as part of their regular learning tools. The Assessment and Testing
Center will assist the Government in monitoring the student learning as well as comparing the
achievements of Armenian schools to those in other countries.




                                                      66

Access to good teaching and learning will be enhanced by a nationwide teacher training and professional
development program. The curriculum reform, introduction of new teaching methods, and availability o f
technological educational media require sufficient technical and informative support all teachers. The
local and regional teacher training capacities will be improved by trainers training. As a consequence,
much of teacher in-service training that will follow will be done locally or regionally.


0        Efficiencyand Financing

The Governmentwill continue and deepenrationalization measures inthe education sector ofthe country.
The measures target enhancing efficiency of utilization of human and physical resources inthe education
sector, as well as that of management. The following measures addressing efficiency issues are to be
implemented in the general education system: (i)increasing pupilheacher ratio to reach 16 in 2008; (ii)
increasing workload o f teachers to reach 22 hours per week in 2005 (according to some estimations, this
indicator may be increased to 27 hours per week); (iii)increasing pupilhon-teacher ratio to reach 24 in
2005; (iv) increasingdensity o f classes; and (v) definingoptimal number o f pupils in schools, and merger
o f schools ifnecessary.

The Government has started to address the low levels o f public spending: it has proposed significant, real
terms increases in spending for each year of the MTEF, which, if achieved, would raise GDP spending on
education to 3.3 percent by 2015.

Increase of public financing of education sector and improvement o f situation will be considered a
priority for the entire program period. In 2004-2015 education expenditures of the consolidated budget
will increase by average o f 13.5% per annum in nominal terms. In the first five years o f the program
period (2004-2008) growth rates of around 4.5 percentage points will be over and above average
indicator, while in2009-20 15 will be stabilizedinthe range o f 10% per annum.


0        Planningand Management

Systematic development o f the management structure o f the central MOES and the regional and local
education management units has not yet been completed. Under the strategy o f reform of the general
education system, the MOES and the Center for Education Reforms (CER) will invite international
experts to carry out a capacity development plan for the central MOES and the CER to improve
educational organization structure, as well as to provide more effective use of the staff. The existing
management capacity will be further strengthened through development and implementation o f an
Education Management Information System (EMIS). New Government owned centers for student
assessment and examinations, and for educational information and communication technologies will
assistthe MOESinpolicy analysis and planning related to the areas o ftheir duties. The initial focus o f the
Assessment and Testing Center will be on national, sample-based student assessment and on further
improvement o f the system o f school-based student assessment. The National Center for Education
Technologies will support the MOES in strategic thinking and planning concerning the arrangements
focusing on the improvement o f education quality.




                                                     67

                                    FUTUREPHASESOFREFORM


The Governmento fArmenia recognizes the need for sustainedreform and what has been described so far
inthis letter represents the first phase of the Government's program. Naturally, the exact reforms to be
pursued in future phases will depend on the experiences and successes of the first phase. However, the
Government anticipates that it will wish to tackle the following issues:


        0   Curriculum and Assessment: revising the curriculum in the light o f piloting and early
            implementation experience, including all students under the new National Curriculum,
            especially those with special educational needs, and developing the system o f evaluating
            educational outcomes inline with the agreednational policy framework


        0   Educational Technology and Learning Resources: once a sustainable Computer Revolving
            Fund to provide equipment for schools has been established, priority will be given to
            enhancing the range and types of materials available to students and teachers through
            investing inschool libraries and increasing the number of schools with access to the Internet


        0   Teachers' Professional Development: the experience o f teacher professional developed will
            be analyzed and disseminated to extend the network o f these `learning schools', and reform
            o f the pre-service teacher training will be undertaken


        0   System Managementand Efficiency: reform the student support services and the Inspectorate
            system, enhance the support system for school managers' professional development, and
            develop policy-making capacity by incorporating research and international developments
            into educational planning




                                          MONITORING     PROGRESS


The Government recognizes that this is an ambitious agenda, but one to which it is deeply committed.
The Government also recognizes the importance o f tracking progress. We propose to use the following
indicators:




                                                      68

                         Armenia EducationQualityand RelevanceProject

               List of possibleindicatorsand triggers (conditions) for a ten-year APL

         PDO             Outcome Indicators (simplified version as might appear in legal documents with the
                                                               Bank)
To improve the quality  0        70 percentof       0        90 percent of           Schools are organizations
and relevance of the        teachers are engaged        teachers are engaged         inwhich pedagogical,
Armenian school             inactivities likely to      inactivities likely to       financial, and
system to meet the          develop the necessary       developthe necessary         administrative aspects
challenges of the           knowledgeand                knowledge and                are focused on increasing
knowledge economy           competencies intheir        competencies intheir         student learning
                            students                    students
                                                                                0         Student learning
                                                                                     outcomes have improved
Intermediate Results
 One per Component
                                 Phase 1                     Phase2                     End of Proiect
Component One:          Component One:              Component One:              Component One:
Armenia to have more        New National                Specialeducation        0    Comprehensive,
relevant general            Curriculum and              curriculum developed         inclusive and integrated
educationcurriculum         aligned learning            and piloted for all          national curriculum for
and a system for            materials being used        types of special needs       grades 1-12 usedby all
evaluating the system       inall                                                    schools
performance.                schools
                                                        National Plan on        0    Comprehensive
                                                        Assessments for              assessment system is
                                                        Evaluationof                 applied including diverse
                                                        Education is                 types of formative and
                                                        implemented                  summative assessments
                                                        according to the plan
                                                        approvedby the
                                                        Government
                            Teachers inall schools                              0    National and
                            use enhanced                                             international assessment
                            classroom-based                                          results on student
                            assessment practices                                     achievement usedfor
                            to inform students and                                   policy-making
                            parents of learningand
                            progress
                            Revised examination
                            proceduresbeing used
                            to determine access to
                            higher education,
                            having been piloted,
                            evaluatedand
                            adjustmentsmade
                            accordingly




                                                     69

IntermediateResults
 One per Component
                                 Phase 1                   Phase2              End of Project
Component Two:
Schoolsto have               ?O percent of schools    50 percent of schools   Majority o f students
facilities and capacities   have School Learning      have libraries          are using digital and
to integrate a variety of   Centersoperating          integratedinto the      print tools to enhance
:ducation technology                                  SchoolLearning          learning for the
IS part of teaching and                               Centers.                knowledge economy
learning.                   90 percent of schools     95% of schools have     Almost 100% o f
                            that received SLC         minimumtechnology       studentsingrades 6
                            hardware from CRF         requirements to meet    to 10 have accessto




                          Phase 1triggers as pre-   Phase2 triggers as pre-
                           requisite for Phase2      requisite for Phase 3




                                                    70

                          Textbook Revolving
                          Fund cash flow
                          projections for 2008-
                          2010 years
                          demonstrate its self-
                          sustainability.

IntermediateResults   Results Indicators for Each Component (simplifiedversion for appear in legal
 One per Component    documentswith the Bank)

Component Three:               Phase 1                        Phase2                    End of Project
Teachers understand
and implement the new ComponentThree:              Component Three:                ComponentThree:
curriculum and         0       95 percent o f                 95 percent of            All teachers
assessment techniques    trained teachers               teachers have aligned          participate ina
inclassrooms             understand and accept          their teaching closer          minimumo fthree
                         the rationale for the          to the requirements o f        professional
                         curriculum and                 curriculum and                 development days as
                         assessmentreform               assessmentreform               part o f the new
                                                                                       teacher in-service
                                                                                       training system
                          30 percent o f teachers       40 percent o f teachers        60 percent o fteachers
                         are ICT literate               are ICT literate               are ICT literate

                          90 percent o f project        Initial teacher training       All newly trained
                         schools use innovative         programs renewedto             teachers understand
                         experimentation o f            be compatible with the         and are using the new
                         active learning teaching       changing pedagogic             curriculum and
                         methods                        environment                    assessment
                                                                                       approaches
                      Triggers (or conditions) to be used at the end of the first two phases: fulfilling these
                      would be required before the next phase ofthe program can be authorized

                        Phase 1triggers as pre-      Phase2 triggers as pre-
                         requisite for Phase2         requisite for Phase3

                          Comprehensive                 Government approved
                          teacher education and         Standards for
                          professional                  accreditation and
                          development strategy          quality assurance for
                          is approved by the            pre-service teacher
                          Government                    training by are put in
                                                        practice
                                                   or
                                                        Comprehensive
                                                        teacher education and
                                                        professional
                                                        development plan
                                                        implementation is in
                                                        the satisfactory
                                                        progressing




                                                     71

Component Four:       ResultsIndicators for Each Component (simplified version as might appear in legal
Improvemanagement     documents with the Bank)
andefficiency of the           Phase 1                      Phase2                   End of Project
general education
system                    All schools are                    Schoolorincioals    Component Four:
                          operatingeffectively               demonstrate                  Ratio ofpupils
                          under the new                      education              to teachers is within
                          managementand                      leadership             EU average
                          financing                         through
                          arrangements                       organizing
                                                             effective
                                                            professional
                                                             development
                                                             days for their
                                                            teachingstaff
                               Teacher salaries             Teacher salaries              Inspection
                               increasein line               increaseinline         servicesupporting
                               with MTEF,                   with MTEF,              teachers and schools
                               subject to budget             subject to budget      to improvestudent
                               allocationsbeing              allocationsbeing       leaming
                               adequate and                  adequate and
                               percentagespent              percentagespent
                               onnon-salary                  on non-salary
                               items is                      itemsis
                               accordingto                   accordingto
                               budgetplans                   budgetplans
                                                                                          Percentageof
                                                                                    total actual
                                                                                    expendituresspent on
                                                                                    non-salary costs
                                                                                    within EUnorms

                      Triggers (or conditions) to be usedat the end ofthe first two phases: fulfilling these
                          would be required beforethe next phase of the program can be authorized

                       Phase 1triggers as pre-       Phase2 triggers as pre-
                        requisite for Phase2          requisite for Phase3

                          Educationchapter of          New policy and
                          PRSP revisedto               implementationplan
                          reflect developments         for cost-efficient
                          during phase 1               reform of student
                                                       social and support
                                                       services agreedwith
                                                       the Bank and
                                                       approvedby the
                                                       Government
                          New policy and                     Education
                          implementationplan                 chapter ofPRSP
                          for school                         revisedto reflect
                          managementand                      developments
                          inspectionservice                  during phase 2
                          agreedwith the Bank
                          andapprovedby the
                          Government




                                                     72

MAP SECTION


