PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
APPRAISAL STAGE
Report No.: AB254
Project Name             Education Quality & Relevance
Region                   EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Sector                   General education sector (100%)
Project ID               P074503
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA
Implementing Agency
Environment Category     []A  []B   [X] C  []FI []TBD (to be determined)
Safeguard Classification  [] S  [ ] S2 [X] S3 [] SF []TBD (to be determined)
Date PID Prepared        August 18, 2003
Date of Appraisal        September 3, 2003
Authorization
Date of Board Approval   December 16, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
A key Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (April 25, 2001) objective is rebuilding human capital
with emphasis on the crucial role of sustained human development through quality education.
The CAS specifically stresses the major challenges that the government faces "in combining
underutilized schools, and addressing the poor quality of education". A new CAS, based on the
PRSP, will be developed this year and is expected to have human development as a central
feature. While economic growth has been strong in recent years, unemployment and poverty
remain high because of the incomplete transition, for example, investment is low and labor
market rigidities remain high. Increasing the level and quality of education is identified in the
recent Poverty Assessment as a central strategy for poverty reduction, in part through improving
the relevance and efficiency of the system. Recent studies identify the critical changes education
systems need to undertake to prepare their students for the global knowledge society (World
Bank 2003d). The Armenian education system faces a wide array of serious problems in this
respect.
The Learning Process
Quality and relevance
Inputs into the learning process are of generally poor quality. Teachers, the key input, are paid
about US$ 25 per month which is close to the official poverty line and because of extremely low
levels of public expenditure (see below), use out-dated methodologies and lack opportunities for
professional development.  In addition, curricula have only changed marginally since
Independence, linkages to the labor market are weak, learning materials and equipment are of
poor quality or non-existent, ICT is available in only a very few schools, and, in some regions,
there are lasting effects of earthquake damage. These problems exist in all parts of the sector.
Poor quality inputs suggest student learning outcomes are poor, though reliable measures of
student achievement do not exist. Labor market outcomes are known to be weak. The poor



mostly have low educational attainment, though a relatively high number of persons with higher
education are also poor, perhaps reflecting skills mismatches in the changing economic
environment (World Bank 2003a).
Access to learning opportunities
There are high levels of basic education enrollment; 97 percent in 1999/2000 (World Bank
2002a). Armenia is rated as 'likely' to meet this Millennium Development Goal (MDG) goal
(Goldman and Wright 2003). Evidence of upper secondary enrollments (grades 9 and 10) show
high rates compared with other low income countries, around 61 percent (World Bank 2003a).
In higher education, enrollment is high at 38 percent (World Bank 2003a).
A striking gender inequality emerges in upper secondary education, with boys less likely to
attend school (25 percent of the age cohort as against a figure of 43 percent for girls). Starting in
upper secondary education, enrollment gaps between the rich and poor begin to appear and are
dramatic in tertiary education. A young person from the top quintile is almost three times more
likely to attend higher education as someone from the lowest quintile (World Bank 2003a).
Governance and Management
Starting under the WB Education Financing and Management Reform (EFMR) project, the
Government has embarked on an extensive program of devolving autonomy to schools. Schools
now have the ability to manage their own budgets, including retaining any savings, and all
schools will, by 2005, have their budgets based on per pupil funding. All school principals,
board members and accountants will have been trained by the completion of the 2005-2006
school year. However, because of low budgets and teacher salaries, schools continue to act
'rationally' by maximizing low-cost inputs and employing more teachers rather than buying
other inputs. The functions of the MOES and the Regional (Marz) education departments
(deconcentrated units of the central ministry) have not moved significantly away from a top-
down style. Strategic planning and policy analysis are weak.
Private providers of education exist mainly at the tertiary level, where there has been an
explosion of interest. There are currently 92 providers of higher education, of which 73 are
private providers and accounting for about 50 percent of enrollments. However, a lack of
accreditation or quality assurance system means that there are widespread concerns about the
quality of some providers. State institutions also charge fees; roughly two-thirds of state
universities' and half of state colleges' income comes from this source (World Bank 2002a).
Finance
Chronic under-spending and poor budget execution
Armenian public spending on education is 2.8 percent of GDP, well below the OECD average of
5 percent and the rate in other transition economies. Private spending is also low (less than 0.5
percent) as is education as a proportion of public spending (11 percent). In addition, education
spending actually amounted to only about 85 percent of budget allocations in recent years
(Burnett 2002). Overall, public expenditures in education amount to about US$ 19 per student



per year (Government of Armenia 2002 Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)) with a
much lower figure for school pupils. Furthermore, despite low salaries, in schools, VET
institutions and colleges less than 2 per cent of the budget is used of quality enhancing non-
salary expenditures (non-salary spending is overwhelmingly on utilities). In higher education
about 15 percent is used for quality purposes.
The Government has moved to address the low levels of public spending: it has proposed
significant, real terms increases in spending for each year of the MTEF, which, if achieved,
would raise public spending on education to 3.3 percent of GDP by year 2015.
Inefficiency
A dramatic fall in the school age population since Independence and only modest reductions in
staffing levels has resulted in staffing ratios which are low in international terms and, more
importantly, unsustainable in the Armenian context. There are only about 11 school pupils for
every full-time equivalent teacher. In tertiary education, staffing ratios are even lower (except in
training institutions where there are incredibly high - about 60 or 70 students per teacher - though
only about 25 percent of tertiary students are in these institutions) (Berryman et al. 2002).
Equity
Overall incidence of public spending is remarkably equitable, being progressive at most levels of
education and only slightly regressive in higher education (World Bank 2002a). However, the
richest quintile spends almost twice as much on education as the second richest quintile and
seven times as much as the poorest.
Government Strategy
As noted above, several important management and finance reforms have begun. The newly
completed Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) sets out a comprehensive and ambitious
agenda for further reforms, which will be built into the forthcoming CAS. The PRSP identifies
quality and access as central concerns, with the intention to increase educational attainment, raise
the completion rate of secondary education and boost teacher salaries. This project picks up
some key elements of the PRSP agenda, by focusing on quality and relevance to increase interest
in school and therefore educational attainment and efficiency to raise teachers' compensation.
2. Objectives
The project PDO is to improve the quality and relevance of the Armenian school system to meet
the challenges of the knowledge society. Achievement of this objective will principally be
measured by changes in the behavior of teachers (improved teaching practice) and managers
(increased spending on non-salary, quality enhancing investments).



A key CAS (April 25, 2001) objective is rebuilding human capital with emphasis on the crucial
role of sustained human development through quality education.
3. Rationale for Bank Involvement
The Bank has a successful history of involvement in the sector. The recently closed EFMR
project was rated Highly Satisfactory by OED. Some elements - such as the decentralization of
education management and a funding formula for schools - are being extended under the new
project, while other successful models - such as the Textbook Revolving Fund - are being
adapted for other uses. The project links to other Bank operations, such as the SAC which
contains conditions related to rationalization.
No other donor is working across the broad range of educational issues addressed in this project.
In some areas, such as investments in educational technology the project will serve to help
coordinate the international community, by establishing an appropriate institutional arrangement
and fund mechanism for donor contributions.
4. Description
Component 1: National Curriculum and Assessment System. Total costs US$ 4.4m (US$ 2.6m
IDA). The first component will provide a more relevant general education curriculum and a
system for evaluating system performance.  It would finance: technical assistance and
consultative workshops to develop the national curriculum, new subject syllabi, and related
assessments; equipment, training and operating costs to establish and maintain the Assessment
and Testing Center (ATC) and a Curriculum Development Unit within the Center for Education
Reform (CER); training of respective local experts in the MOES, CER and universities; and
printing and publishing the curriculum and assessment documents.
Component 2: Information and Communication Technologies in Schools. Total costs US$ 8.6m
(US$ 6.Om IDA). The second component will ensure schools in Armenia have facilities and
capacity to integrate ICT as part of teaching and learning.  It will: build the necessary
infrastructure for integration of ICT into general education; and, help teachers and students to
apply modern teaching and learning methods in schools using ICT and related instructional
materials. Funds would finance establishing and equipping School Learning Centers (computer
labs) in almost all schools in Armenia, in a sustainable way through a Computer Revolving
Fund. In addition, the component would fund an Internet connected School Network for 150
schools; technical assistance to develop educational software and related software operating
manuals and teacher training modules; development and maintenance of educational portal; and,
establishing and operating the National Center for Educational Technologies to oversee all
education technology activities in Armenia, including the Computer Revolving Fund and
contributions from other donors.
Component 3: Teacher Professional Development. Total costs US$ 5. Im (US$ 4.5m IDA). The
third component will enable teachers to understand and implement the new curriculum and



assessment techniques in the classroom. It would: (i) train teachers in aligning their teaching to
the requirements of the new national curriculum and assessment system; (ii) promote the use of
active and skills-based teaching methods in schools; (iii) prepare teams of teacher trainers who
will be able to serve as teacher development experts in the activities financed by this project and
beyond; and (iv) pilot the idea of school-based professional development of teachers, and
increase cooperation and experience-sharing among teachers and schools. Training would be
delivered by the well-established CER. This component would finance: technical assistance to
develop training materials; training of teacher trainers, training of teachers and school directors;
and publishing and printing of pedagogical resources.
Component 4: System Management and Efficiency. Total costs US$ 4.8m (US$ 3.8m IDA).
The fourth component will improve the management and efficiency of the education system. It
would: (i) extend the decentralization of management and formula funding to all schools; (ii)
strengthen the capacity of the education system to support decentralized schools; (iii) undertake
teacher rationalization; and (iv) expand the EMIS. The main costs of this component are to
provide a package of benefits to the approximately 15,000 teachers who are made redundant as a
result of rationalization. Benefits could include counseling, training, business services, and
additional redundancy payments. These activities will help the government meet its efficiency
targets specified in the MTEF. Additionally, this component would finance training of school
principals, school board members, school accountants, and MOES and other central agency staff
in decentralized management; EMIS software; and technical assistance for EMIS software
development and implementation.
Component 5: Project Management Support. Total Costs US$ 1.5m of which US$ I.lm IDA.
The fifth component would provide the necessary assistance for project coordination, financial
management, procurement, monitoring and reporting. It would support the investment and
operating costs associated with the project management unit (CEP). These costs include: minor
office repair; office equipment, software, and furniture; vehicles; staff salaries and short-term
consultant fees; auditing services; and external and in-country training and seminars.
5. Financing
Source:                                                            ($m.)
BORROWER/RECEPIENT                                                   6.4
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                               18.0
Total     24.4
6. Implementation
There are no official co-financiers of this project. While there are several, smaller initiatives
supported by other donors or non-governmental organizations being implemented in Armenia
(Annex 2), these activities are not amenable to formal co-financing. However, the MOES has
specifically requested assistance in ensuring these other activities are coordinated with the
project, especially in teacher training and a DFID-funded activity on MOES re-organization.



The MOES will be the responsible agency for the execution of the Project. It has established a
Center for Education Projects (CEP) to act as a project management unit to support the
coordination, fiduciary management and reporting of donor-financed projects, which will
continue on from the first project. The vastly experienced Center for Education Reform, a State
Close Joint Stock Company, will be contracted to deliver the teacher and school-based
management training and become the curriculum development agency for the county. Each of
the project areas has a designated working group to assist in project preparation, established by
Ministerial order, and during implementation a lead Ministerial department or agency will be
responsible for each of the areas.
7. Sustainability
Fiscal sustainability (Annex 9). The activities initiated by the project are estimated to generate
annual post-project costs equivalent to 4 per cent of the general education budget, though more
than half of these costs will be met from private sources (parental payments to the Computer
Revolving Fund). Replication of the project throughout the general education system could
generate further costs equivalent to about 4 per cent of the general education budget. However,
projections suggest that the resources available to the education system will be growing fast
enough to (a) sustain the additional non-salary costs arising from the project and, (b) assuming
increases in pupil/staff ratios materialize, provide for a significant increase in teachers' salaries.
Institutional sustainability: As a result of the project (and a related DFID-funded activity), the
enhanced MOES will have stronger capacity to manage the education system budget and schools
will have greater autonomy and capacity within a clearer regulatory framework and with greater
financial flexibility to continue the reforms. The CER, which will be responsible for curriculum
development and teacher training, is a successful institution which should be able to adopt the
new teaching methodologies and extend their use in the system.
The project will create two new institutions, the Assessment and Testing Center and the National
Center for Educational Technologies. Line items for these will be required during the project life
and post-project sustainability will depend on sufficient allocations from the State Budget for
running costs and retain high quality staff. Initial cost estimates by the Government are high and
this will be discussed during Appraisal. Other donor projects (including the World Bank Public
Sector Modernization Project) will be tackling broader civil service pay and conditions which
should help recruitment and retention in the medium term.
8. Lessons Leamed from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The project reflects key lessons learned in the first Bank-supported education operation.
Realistic evaluation of the institutional capacity for managing reforms and project
activities and an appropriate scope of the project, enhances the chances of success. Some
areas are familiar to the Armenians from the first project, e.g., school based management and
financial reform. In newer areas, a considerable amount of technical assistance has been



provided during preparation and detailed implementation plans have been prepared so that there
is greater awareness of the tasks ahead.
A project supporting substantive reform should, while responding to immediate concerns,
keep sustainability (financial, technical and institutional) as paramount objectives. The
project design is based on sound financial and economic analysis; the in-country technical
expertise in the new areas is promoted and supported during implementation; and the legal,
regulatory and institutional basis for the reform is part of the project.
Project effectiveness is considerably enhanced when project concept and objectives are
based on stakeholder consensus and Borrower priorities. The design of the reforrn has
largely been at the demand of the Armenian Government and, specifically the MOES, following
their priorities as discussed in the PRSP. The PRSP and general project design have been
discussed with all key stakeholder groups and a consensus has been reached. A social and
communications assessment will be done in the Fall 2003 for making necessary adjustments in
the details of the activities and/or the communications strategy for mobilizing support.
Emphasis needs to be placed on the reaching consensus on the monitoring and evaluation
framework and the need to robustly use the framework as a tool for monitoring progress
during implementation. A significant amount of effort has been spent discussing a monitoring
and evaluation framework with the Armenian counterparts. They have developed such a
framework as part of the PIP and agreement on this will be reached during Appraisal.
Obstacles to the rationalization of schools and staffing should not be underestimated. The
first Education project initiated the dialogue on rationalization but ultimately it could not be
implemented. The current project design: has been initiated by the government; has been
developed and piloted in a consultative way with communities; tackles the curriculum so
teachers can teach across more than one (narrow) subject; uses the legal and regulatory levers the
MOES has over the autonomous schools (e.g., initiating school mergers); acknowledges that
substantial incentives and compensation are needed to ease social costs and overcome political
opposition; involves all relevant Ministries in planning and implementation in order to spread
ownership (and the political burden) and achieve the necessary coordination; and will develop
and implement a communication strategy to build understanding of the need for and benefits
from the reform.
School-based management and per-pupil funding reforms need to ensure that the reporting
and accountability framework of schools to the Government is not weakened. The project
supports the Government's moves ensure appropriate financial reporting and accounting
obligations of autonomous schools, to increase the school accountability and enable evaluation
of the outcome of the financial and management reforms at the school level.
9. Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project             Yes           No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BPGP 4.01)                                X



Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                            X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                 X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                   X
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                  X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                    X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                             X
Projects in Disputed Areas (Q/BP_/GP 7.60)                              X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                     X
The Project has been classified as Category C for its low impact on the environment.
10. List of Factual Technical Documents
Berryman, Sue et al. 2002. The Armenia Education System. Public Expenditure Review. (May).
Burnett, Nicholas and Rodica Cnobloch. 2003. Public Spending on Education in the Poorest
CIS-7 Countries: The Hidden Crisis. World Bank: Washington DC
European Training Foundation. 2003. "Tacis Action Programme 2002-2003: Republic of
Armenia: Area of Co-operation: Social Concsequenes of Transition: Terrns of Reference:
Support to the Development of an Integrated VET System"
Hykin, Josephine. 2002. "Armenia: Education Sector Study and Analysis". Report dated 7/02
Government of Armenia. 2003. Project Implementation Plan (draft August)
Government of Armenia. 2003. Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Yerevan.
Government of Armenia. 2003. Higher Education Reform Strategy (draft June)
Government of Armenia. 2002. Medium Term Expenditure Framework 2003-2005. Yerevan.
International Monetary Fund, 2002, World Economic Outlook 2002, Washington D.C., IMF.
Iradian, Garbis, 2003, Armenia: the Road to Sustained Rapid Growth, Cross-Country Evidence,
IMF Working Paper WP/03/103, Washington D.C., IMF.
OECD and Statistics Canada, 2000, Literacy in the Information Age: Final Report of the
International Adult Literacy Survey, Paris, OECD.
OECD, 2001, Knowledge and Skills for Life: First Results from PISA 2000, Paris, OECD.
Perkins, Gillian, and Ruslan Yemtsov, 2001, Armenia: Restructuring to Sustain Universal
General Education, World Bank Technical Paper No. 498, Washington D.C., World Bank.
SETA, 2000, Republic of Armenia: ICT Assessment, Yerevan, USAID.
UNDP, 2001, Armenia: Education Sector Review, mimeo, Yerevan, UNDP.
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims on the
disputed areas



UNDP, 2001 a, Report on Education, Poverty and Economic Activity Survey (EPEAS), mimeo,
Yerevan, UNDP.
UNDP, 2001c, 10 Years of Independence and Transition in Armenia: National Human
Development Report 2001, Yerevan, UNDP.
World Bank. 2002a. Armenia Poverty Update. Human Development Sector Unit, ECA Region.
World Bank. 2002b. Growth Challenges and Government Policies in Armenia.
World Bank. 2003a. Armenia Poverty Assessment.
World Bank. 2003b. Achieving the Human Development MDGs in ECA. (Manuscript dated 1/9)
World Bank. 2003c. Implementation Completion Report for Armenia Education Reform and
Management Project. Washington DC.
World Bank. 2003d. Lifelong Learning in the Global Knowledge Economy: Challenges for
Developing Countries. Washington DC.
11. Contact point
Contact: Toby Linden
Title: Sr. Education Spec.
Tel: (202) 473-3566
Fax: (202) 614-1141
Email: tlinden(worldbank.org
12. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop



