                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001318



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-38490)



                                      ON A

                                    CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.2 MILLION
                       (US$ 19.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA

                                    FOR AN

             EDUCATION QUALITY AND RELEVANCE PROJECT



                  IN THE SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF

                THE EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM



                                   June 1, 2010




Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/2009)
                        Currency Unit = Dram (AMD)
                           AMD 1.00 = US$ 0.0026
                          US$ 1.00 = AMD 377.89

                                FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 ­ December 31
                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL     Adaptable Program Loan (used also to refer to this Adaptable Program Credit)
ATC     Assessment and Testing Center
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CER     Center for Education Reform
CPD     Continuous Professional Development
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
EFMR    Education Financing and Management Reform
EMIS    Education Management Information System
ERC     Education Resource Centers
EQRP    Education Quality and Relevance Project
FM      Financial Management
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ICT     Information Communication Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
ISR     Implementation Status Report
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG     Millennium Development Goal
MoES    Ministry of Education and Science
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MTR     Midterm Review
ATS     Assessment and Testing Center
NIE     National Institute of Education
NACET   National Center of Education Technologies
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PIRLS   Progress in International Reading Literacy Study
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SIL     Specific Investment Loan
SLC     School Learning Center
TIMSS   Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
TPDC    Teacher Professional Development Center
WB      World Bank
      Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
    Country Director: Asad Alam
     Sector Manager: Mamta Murthi
Project Team Leader: Meskerem Mulatu
   ICR Team Leader: Zorica Lesic
                                            ARMENIA
                               Education Quality and Relevance Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 35
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 37
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 38
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 39
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Education Quality &
Country:                Armenia                 Project Name:             Relevance Project
                                                                          (APL #1)
Project ID:             P074503                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-38490
ICR Date:               06/02/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ARMENIA
Original Total
                        XDR 13.2M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 13.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 13.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and Science
 Center for Education Projects
 National Center for Educational Technologies
 National Institute for Education
 Assessment and Testing Center
 National Employment Service Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       05/30/2002     Effectiveness:             07/23/2004        07/23/2004
Appraisal:            09/03/2003     Restructuring(s):                            11/28/2007
Approval:             01/20/2004     Mid-term Review:           05/31/2006        11/09/2006
                                     Closing:                   11/30/2008        11/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory       Implementing        Satisfactory



                                                i
                                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       10                    10
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                           7                      7
Other social services                                                   3                      3
Primary education                                                       40                    40
Secondary education                                                     40                    40


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                       33                    33
Education for the knowledge economy                                     67                    67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:            Asad Alam                            D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:              Mamta Murthi                         Maureen Anne McLaughlin
Project Team Leader:         Meskerem Mulatu                      Tobias Linden
ICR Team Leader:             Zorica Lesic
ICR Primary Author:          Zorica Lesic




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to improve the quality and relevance of the
Armenian school system to meet the challenges of the knowledge society.

  The key indicator is that 70% of teachers are engaged in activities likely to develop the
necessary knowledge and competencies in their students.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                            Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                              approval            Target        Completion or
                                             documents)           Values         Target Years
                Number of teachers engaged in activities likely to develop the necessary
Indicator 1 :
                knowledge and competencies in their students
                0 % Note: No baseline
                                         70% of teachers                      90% of teachers are
                assessment was needed
                                         are engaged in                       engaged in
                considering that for the
                                         activities likely to                 activities likely to
Value           first year of
                                         develop the                          develop the
quantitative or implementation, the
                                         necessary                            necessary
Qualitative)    expected figure wa s 0
                                         knowledge and                        knowledge and
                percent. (See PAD:
                                         competencies in                      competencies in
                arrangements for results
                                         their students.                      their students.
                monitoring)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                 11/30/2009                           11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Over achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                           Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                            Revised
                                             approval                         Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                            documents)                        Target Years
                New National Curriculum and aligned learning materials being used in a certain
Indicator 1 :
                number of schools.
                                        New National                       New National
Value                                   Curriculum and                     Curriculum and
(quantitative   0                       aligned learning                   aligned learning
or Qualitative)                         materials being                    materials being
                                        used in 80% of                     used in 100% of



                                                iii
                                          schools.                          schools.
Date achieved 12/18/2003                  11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Over achieved.
achievement)
                95% of trained teachers understand and accept the rationale for the curriculum
Indicator 2 :
                and assessment reform.
                                           95% of trained
                                                                             95% of trained
                                           teachers
                                                                             teachers understand
Value           10% trained by the         understand and
                                                                             and accept the
(quantitative   National Insitute for      accept the
                                                                             rationale for the
or Qualitative) Education.                 rationale for the
                                                                             curriculum and
                                           curriculum and
                                                                             assessment reform.
                                           assessment reform.
Date achieved 12/18/2003                   11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
                70% of teachers use enhanced classroom-based assessment practices to inform
Indicator 3 :
                students and parents of learning and progress.
                                           70% of teachers                   70% of teachers use
                                           use enhanced                      enhanced
                                           classroom-based                   classroom-based
Value
                                           assessment                        assessment
(quantitative   no use
                                           practices to inform               practices to inform
or Qualitative)
                                           students and                      students and parents
                                           parents of learning               of learning and
                                           and progress.                     progress.
Date achieved 12/18/2003                   11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
                Revised examination procedures being used to determine access to higher
Indicator 4 :
                education, having been piloted, evaluated, and adjustments made accordingly.
                                                                             New school
                                           Revised                           graduation and
                                           examination                       university entrance
                                           procedures being                  unified exams were
                                           used to determine                 piloted and
Value
                Old examination            access to higher                  gradually
(quantitative
                procedures in place        education, having                 introduced in three
or Qualitative)
                                           been piloted,                     years period. In
                                           evaluated, and                    2009 all exams
                                           adjustments made                  were carried on
                                           accordingly.                      according to new
                                                                             procedures.
Date achieved 12/18/2003                   11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
                Fully achieved.
(incl. %


                                               iv
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     70% of schools have School Learning Centers (SLC) operating.
Value
                  no School Learning
(quantitative                               70%                               78.6%
                  Center operating
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2003                11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved.
achievement)
                  90% of schools have received SLC hardware from Computer Revolving Fund.
Indicator 6 :
                  and have made payments to CRF on time and in full.
Value
(quantitative     0%                        90% of schools                    100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2003                11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Over achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     140 networked schools are using technology effectively.
Value
(quantitative     0                         140                               320
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2003                11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Over achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     30% of teachers are ICT literate.
Value
(quantitative     0                         30%                               35 %
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/18/2003                11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved.
achievement)
                  90% of project schools use innovative experimentation of active learning
Indicator 9 :
                  teaching methods.
Value
(quantitative   0%                         90%                             95%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2003                   11/30/2009                      11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
                All schools are operating effectively under the new management and financing
Indicator 10 :
                arrangements.
Value                                                                      All schools (1.427)
(quantitative   0                          1,400                           are operating
or Qualitative)                                                            effectively under


                                                  v
                                                                                the new
                                                                                management and
                                                                                financing
                                                                                arrangements.
Date achieved 12/18/2003                   11/30/2009                           11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved.
achievement)
                Teacher salaries increase in line with MTEF, subject to budget allocations being
Indicator 11 :
                adequate and percentage spent on non-salary items is according to budget plans.
Value
(quantitative   AMD 30.951                 AMD 55.099                        AMD 111.865
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/18/2003                   11/30/2009                        11/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Over achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/21/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.74
  3     03/24/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.05
  4     07/02/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.79
  5     12/27/2005         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              3.82
  6     08/23/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              5.23
  7     12/19/2006     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              6.40
  8     06/08/2007         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   10.32
  9     12/10/2007         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   12.13
 10     06/06/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   14.56
 11     12/24/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   16.41
 12     06/26/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   17.94


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 11/28/2007               S       S          11.02




                                                 vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

The Education Quality and Relevance Project (EQRP) supported the first phase of the
three phases Adaptable Program Loan (APL), supporting the Government's Education
Sector Reform Program. It was approved on January 20, 2004. The International
Development Association (IDA) Credit was signed on March 24, 2004 and it became
effective on July 23, 2004. The project was the second World Bank-financed operation
supporting the education sector of Armenia1.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal Armenia ranked in the lower middle-income group of countries.
Emigration had reduced its population, which was 3.8 million in the early 1990s, to about
3.1 million in 2003. Because Armenia is small, landlocked and mountainous, with few
natural resources, it faced and continues to face economic disadvantages compared with
many of its neighbors. Armenia achieved independence from the Soviet Union in 1991,
and since then the economy has changed profoundly. The heavy industry collapsed as
the Soviet Union broke up, and is gradually being replaced by services, light industry,
and construction.

As this economic transformation was taking hold, GDP growth increased from 3.3
percent in 1999 to 13.9 percent in 2003. The Government's forceful steps to create a
more favorable business environment and improve public institutions helped accelerate
growth rates.

While economic growth had been strong, unemployment and poverty remained high
because of the incomplete transition to a market economy. For example, investment
was low and labor market rigidities remained high.

Armenia had high levels of basic education enrollment at 97 percent in 1999/2000 and
it was rated as `likely' to meet the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of achieving
universal primary education. Upper secondary enrollments (grades 9 and 10) had high
enrollment rates (61 percent) compared with other low income countries, but children,
especially boys, were dropping out of secondary school. This was and continues to be a
particular problem in rural areas and for poorer children. In higher education, enrollment
was also high at 38 percent.

The education system did not meet the country's new needs. Armenia's public
expenditures on education were very low (among the lowest in the Former Soviet Union),


1
  The first World Bank-financed operation supporting the education sector of Armenia was the Education
Financing and Management Reform Project (Credit number IDA-30070), approved in 1998, and closed in
2004.


                                                  1
and available resources were not used efficiently -- for example the school system had
not adapted to the decline in Armenia's population since independence, resulting in an
excessively high teacher/pupil ratio. Furthermore, the school curriculum was not
properly equipping children for the labor market, since the curriculum had not yet been
fully revised to meet the needs of a market economy. Facilities were inadequate and
teachers were not properly skilled or motivated.

Inputs into the learning process were of generally poor quality. Teachers, the key input,
were paid about US$ 28 per month which was close to the official poverty line. Teachers
were using out-dated methodologies and lacked opportunities for professional
development. In addition: (i) curricula had only changed marginally since 1991; (ii)
linkages to the labor market were weak; (iii) learning materials and equipment were of
poor quality or non-existent; (iv) information and communication technology (ICT) was
available in only very few schools; and (v) in some regions, the quality of physical
infrastructure was poor, partly as a result of the lasting effects of earthquake damage.
Poor quality inputs suggested that student learning outcomes were poor, although reliable
measures of student achievement did not exist. Labor market outcomes were known to
be weak. The poor mostly had low educational attainment, although a relatively high
number of persons with higher education were also poor, perhaps reflecting skills
mismatches in the changing economic environment.

Starting under the IDA-financed Education Financing and Management Reform (EFMR)
project approved in 1998 (Credit number IDA-30070), the Government embarked on an
extensive program of devolving autonomy to schools. Schools were given the ability to
manage their own budgets, including retaining any savings. By 2005, all schools had
their budgets based on per pupil funding. All school principals, board members and
accountants were trained in their new roles by the completion of the 2005/2006 school
year. However, because of low budgets and teacher salaries, schools continued to act
'rationally' by maximizing low-cost inputs and employing more teachers rather than
buying other inputs. The functions of the Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) and
the Regional (Marz) education departments (de-concentrated units of the central ministry)
did not move significantly away from a top-down style. Strategic planning and policy
analysis were weak. Private providers of education existed mainly at the tertiary level.
There were 92 providers of higher education, of which 73 were private, and they
accounted for about 50 percent of enrollments. However, the lack of an accreditation or
quality assurance system meant that there were widespread concerns about the quality of
some providers. State institutions also charged fees; roughly two-thirds of state
universities' and half of state colleges' income was generated from this source.

Increasing the level and quality of education was identified in the 2003 Poverty
Assessment as a central strategy for poverty reduction, in part through improving the
relevance and efficiency of the system. Analytical studies undertaken by the Bank in
2003 identified the critical changes needed to be undertaken in the education system to
prepare students for the global knowledge society. The Armenian education system
faced a wide array of serious problems in this respect.



                                           2
Government Strategy

In October 2003 the Government published its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
which promoted the goals of: (i) reducing poverty; (ii) lowering inequality; and (iii)
improving human development. The PRSP emphasized the Government's commitment
to equitable growth and sustained poverty reduction across the whole country.
Specifically, the PRSP identified quality and access to education as a central concern,
with the intention to increase educational attainment, raise the completion rate of
secondary education and boost teacher salaries. The PRSP identified a comprehensive
and ambitious agenda for further reforms, which was built into the 2004 CAS (No.
28991-AM).

Through the PRSP process, the Government approved a ten-year Education Sector
Reform Program, which the Bank fully supported. In support of that program, the
Government proposed an ambitious set of reforms building on the first World Bank-
supported Education Project, which was still under implementation.

Priorities in the general educational system were the increase of salaries and teacher
training. Measures undertaken to this end were considered a precondition to increase the
quality of educational services. With respect to improving quality at the general
education level, the Government paid special attention to improve assets and teaching
and learning materials. In particular, issues related to the content of education:
curriculum, teaching and learning modernization, school library resource upgrading,
as well as ensuring the availability of modern information technologies in schools were
of high importance. The state continued the policy of providing textbooks to children in
elementary school. Since the inadequacy of heating systems and building conditions
hampered the continuity of the education process, reconstruction and heating were on the
list of priorities as well.

The Government was also addressing the low levels of public spending: it had proposed
significant, real term increases in spending for each year of the MTEF. In 2004-2015,
education expenditures in the consolidated budget were to increase by an average of 13.5
percent per annum in nominal terms, with the biggest increase in the first five years
(2004- 2008).

The authorities continued and deepened rationalization measures in the general
education sector. The following measures were planned for implementation: (i)
increasing pupil/teacher ratio to reach 16 in 2008; (ii) increasing workload of teachers to
reach 22 hours per week in 2005; (iii) increasing density of classes; (iv) defining an
optimal number of pupils in schools; and (v) merging schools if necessary. These
reforms taken together would enable teacher salaries to rise - to the equivalent of US$ 80
per month in 2005, and ensure an average of 12 percent increase per annum in each of the
subsequent program years. Several important reforms in finance and management had
begun under the first Bank-supported project. Programs with other international agencies
had developed a methodology for teacher training.



                                            3
Rationale for Bank involvement

The Bank had a successful history of involvement in the sector. The Education
Financing and Management Reform (EFMR) credit, which closed in 2004, supported the
decentralization of education management and a funding formula for schools. These
interventions were extended under this project.

At the time of the April 2001 CAS (No. 22111-AM) discussion, it was anticipated that
the International Development Association (the Association) would support a stand-alone
Specific Investment Loan (SIL) in the education sector, for a Credit in the amount of
US$10 million equivalent. However, in support of the proposed PRSP ambitious set of
reforms and building on the ongoing EFMR, the new Project was therefore designed
as the first stage of a three-stage Adaptable Program Loan (APL) with an initial Credit
of US$19 million equivalent.

This Project was designed to support some key elements of the PRSP agenda, by
focusing on the quality and relevance of education. The Project encouraged the MoES
to focus on policy development in the areas of education quality, teacher education, and
inclusive education to promote access to quality education for all children. By the end of
the first phase of the program, the MoES was expected to prepare and approve the
policies addressing the special education needs, teacher education, school management
and inspection services, standards for school libraries, and the national plan for
evaluating educational outcomes. Investments in subsequent phases of the APL should
implement these reforms.

No other donor was working across the broad range of educational issues being
addressed in this project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

This four year Project was the first phase of a three-phase Adaptable Program Loan
(APL), to support the Government's Education Sector Reform Program.

The Program Objectives and Phases

The Program and Project Development Objectives were similar: to improve the quality
and relevance of the Armenian school system to meet the challenges of the knowledge
society.

Progress towards this objective was to be measured and monitored based on the Project's
key indicator: 70% of teachers are engaged in activities likely to develop the necessary
knowledge and competencies in their students.




                                            4
The triggers from the first to the second phase were as follows:

       Policy for addressing the needs of special education students agreed with the
       Association and approved by the Government.
       National plan for educational assessment and evaluation agreed with the
       Association and approved by the Government.
       Minimum standards for school libraries approved by the Government, assessment
       of current situation in schools with respect to these standards completed, and plan
       for libraries agreed with the Association and approved by the Government.
       Textbook Revolving Fund cash flow projections for years covered by next phase
       demonstrate its self-sustainability.
       Comprehensive teacher education and professional development strategy agreed
       with the Association and approved by the Government.
       Education chapter of PRSP revised to reflect developments during phase 1 of the
       APL.
       New policy and implementation plan for school management and inspection
       service agreed with the Association and approved by the Government.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

There were no changes in the Project Development Objective or key indicators during the
implementation of the Project. However, in response to a Government request, the
Project was restructured in November 2007 to include pre-school and upper secondary
school into the overall program, and corresponding output indicators were added to the
results monitoring framework.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project expected to directly or indirectly benefit:

       Pupils­ the key beneficiaries and the main target group was the population of
       students.
       Teachers ­ the majority of the Project activities involved teachers, making them
       the second main beneficiary and target group.
       Professional educators ­ curriculum and syllabi developers, assessment specialists,
       textbook and education material developers, and teachers' trainers significantly
       increased their professional capacity through project activities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Project had five components:

Component 1: National Curriculum and Assessment System. (Baseline cost US$ 3.9
million equivalent).


                                             5
The first component was designed to provide a more relevant and inclusive general
education curriculum and a system for evaluating system performance. The component
was to finance technical assistance and consultative workshops to develop the national
curriculum, new subject syllabi, school based related assessments, and revised entrance
procedures for higher education; equipment and training costs to establish the
Assessment and Testing Center (ATC) and a Curriculum Development Unit within the
Center for Education Reform (CER); training of respective local experts in the MoES,
CER and universities; and printing and publishing curriculum and assessment documents.


Component 2: Educational Technologies in Schools. (Baseline cost US$ 7.9 million
equivalent).

The second component was designed to help ensure that schools had the facilities and
capacity to integrate a variety of educational technologies as part of teaching and learning.
The component was to support establishing and equipping School Learning Centers
(computer labs) in about 600 schools in Armenia, in a sustainable way through a
Computer Revolving Fund. In addition, the component was to fund an internet connected
School Network for about 150 schools; technical assistance to develop educational
software and related software operating manuals and teacher training modules;
development and maintenance of the educational portal; and establishing of the National
Center for Educational Technologies to oversee all education technology activities in
Armenia, including the Computer Revolving Fund and contributions from other donors.

Component 3: Teacher Professional Development. (Baseline cost US$ 4.9 million
equivalent).

The third component was designed to enable teachers to understand and implement the
new curriculum and assessment techniques in the classroom. The component was to
support training teachers to align their teaching to the requirements of the new national
curriculum and assessment system; promoting the use of active and skills-based teaching
methods in schools; preparing teams of teacher trainers who would be able to serve as
teacher development experts in the activities financed by the Project and beyond; and
piloting the idea of school-based professional development of teachers, and increasing
cooperation and experience sharing among teachers and schools. Training on the new
curriculum and assessment tools was to be organized by the Center for Education Reform
(CER) facilitated as necessary by international technical assistance. Teachers were also
to be trained to use ICTs.

This component was to finance equipping regional training centers of the CER; technical
assistance to develop training materials; training of teacher trainers, teachers and school
directors; and publishing and printing of pedagogical resources.

The pilot of school-based professional development was to be implemented through
grants to approximately 60 schools (`School Centers').



                                             6
Component 4: System Management and Efficiency. (Baseline cost US$ 3.6 million
equivalent).

The fourth component was designed to help improve the management and efficiency of
the education system by financing a package of benefits to approximately 15,000 teachers
who would be made redundant as a result of rationalization.

Benefits could include counseling, training, business services, and additional redundancy
payments. These activities sought to help the Government meet its efficiency targets
specified in the Medium Term Economic Framework. Additionally, this component
financed training of school principals, school board members, school accountants, and
MoES and other central agency staff in decentralized management and formula funding;
EMIS software; and technical assistance for EMIS software development and
implementation.

Component 5: Project Management Support. (Baseline cost US$ 1.4 million equivalent).

The fifth component financed the necessary assistance for project coordination, financial
management, procurement, monitoring and reporting. It supported the investment and
operating costs associated with the project management unit, Center for Education
Projects (CEP).

1.6 Revised Components

The Project was restructured in November 2007. The development objective and related
outcome indicator remained the same. The overall project design was maintained, but
new activities were included under three of the five components. Financing of the new
activities was attained with savings under the Project (see Section 1.7). The following
corresponding output indicators were added as a result of the new activities:

       A pilot for the consolidation of upper secondary schools is carried out
       successfully and the Government obtains relevant evidence for future decision-
       making in this area.
       "The Strategy for Pre-School Education and early childhood development in
       Armenia for 2007-2012" is agreed with the Association and approved by the
       Government; and
       22 pilot pre-school education projects are implemented successfully in two
       marzes.

The new project activities included:

       Under Component 1: Strengthening institutional capacities of project
       implementation agencies (National Institute of Education - NIE, Assessment and
       Testing Center, and National Center for Education Technology - NACET). The
       Project supported additional capacity development of NIE and NACET staff to
       carry out monitoring and evaluation of the ongoing reforms. The estimated cost
       of this additional activity was US$160,000 equivalent.

                                           7
       Under Component 3: Increasing the training and knowledge-sharing capacities
       of the 52 School Centers created under the Project. The number of teachers
       trained in the new curriculum, assessment and teaching methods increased by
       about 8,000 Foreign Language Teachers. The proposal to include the training of
       these teachers was a result of the introduction of foreign language as a new
       subject in the early grades of primary education. The envisaged training for all
       subject teachers in the new national curriculum was completed in the framework
       of the Project. The estimated cost for this activity was US$1.1 million equivalent.

       Under Component 4: Two additional activities were added: (i) piloting
       alternative models for national pre-school education strategy with a view to
       increase overall enrollment and improve school readiness of 5-6 years old for
       primary school. The estimated cost of 22 pre-school Pilot Projects was SDR
       125,000 (US$ 190,000 equivalent), and (ii) piloting of consolidation plans for
       upper secondary schools as a result of the introduced 12-year education structure.
       The costs included: refurbishment of schools included in the pilot, teachers'
       training, as well as additional learning and teaching materials for the creation of
       modern libraries. The pilot was implemented in 10 consolidated upper secondary
       schools during 2008-2009. The estimated cost of this additional activity was
       US$460,000 equivalent.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

       A new expenditure category entitled: "Grants to Other Educational Institutions"
       with an allocation of SDR 125,000 (approximately US$ 190,000 equivalent) was
       added to the Credit Agreement during the restructuring. This category was used
       to finance the piloting of alternative models for the national pre-school education.

       Reallocation between expenditure categories to accommodate the proposed
       changes. The reallocation was also due to savings made under the Project as well
       as SDR/US$ exchange rate variations. These saving allowed financing of new
       activities without any cancelation of the originally planned activities. The
       majority of reallocated funds were directed to the training of foreign language
       teachers, and to financing consultancy services.

       The Credit closing date was extended by one year to November 30, 2009 because
       the implementation of the new activities under the restructured Project required
       additional time. Specifically, the extension of the Closing Date allowed the
       Government to conduct the planned pilots for at least one full academic year.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

The Project did not encounter factors that had a significant impact on its implementation
and outcomes.

                                              8
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) team rates project preparation,
design and quality an entry as Satisfactory.

The Education Quality and Relevance Project (EQRP) built on a successful entry strategy
into the sector, through a well-designed and solidly implemented first education project,
the Education Financing and Management Project (EFMP). The Project directly
supported some key elements of the PRSP agenda and the Government's ten year
Education Sector Reform Program.

The preparation of the EQRP was highly participatory and benefited from the Intensive
Learning Implementation Completion Report (ICR) exercise for the EFMP that was
undertaken simultaneously with the preparation of this project. The ICR preparation, as
well as the preparation of the EQRP included consultation with key beneficiaries
(parents, teachers, school principals, school board members, and regional education
administrators) and a stakeholder conference where the impact and lessons of the EFMP
were explored.

The Project Team identified the main issues in the education sector in Armenia, namely
sustainability, and the lack of relevance of education to the knowledge economy. The
Project was designed considering evidence from two important analytical reports
(Restructuring to Sustain Universal General Education, March 2001 and the Draft Public
Expenditure Review for Education, April 2002). Project design also benefitted from the
preparation of the PRSP, also developed in a highly participatory manner. In addition,
specific studies, such as the Poverty Update and the Poverty Assessment, provided
important background information for the design of the Project. With the help of these
reports, the team was able to develop a comprehensive understanding of the main policy
challenges affecting the education sector in Armenia.

The Project also benefited from a Quality Enhancement Review (QER). Comments
made by the QER were fully taking into account in the design of the Project. The
preparation team comprised a strong Bank team with a good skill mix and a large group
of experienced consultants.

There were no co-financiers of the Project. However, the Project was designed taking
into consideration other donor activities in Armenia such as: (i) Armenia School
Connectivity project financed by US State Department; (ii) Life skills and Pre-school
Education project financed by UNICEF; (iii) Civic Education Curriculum Development
Project financed by the Open Society Institute (OSI); (iv) Educational Software
Development funded by OSI; and (v) Teacher Training Project implemented by the
International Research and Exchanges Board (IREX).

The risk assessment assumptions made at appraisal reflected a good understanding of the
education sector in Armenia. The team identified well the main risks to the Project

                                                9
implementation and proposed adequate mitigation measures. The mitigation measures
that were identified during project appraisal were appropriate and have been implemented.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The ICR team rates implementation Satisfactory.

The Project was implemented over five years and rated as satisfactory through its
implementation, with the exception of a period between 2005 and 2006 where it was
rated as marginally satisfactory. The Project successfully delivered all the planned
outputs under the five components and achieved its expected outcome (see details in
Annex 2 ­ Outputs by Component). Project implementation was smooth with
disbursements on target (original as well as restructured). The Project was never at risk.

The Project was implemented by the Center for Education Projects (CEP), established in
1996 by the MoES as a unit to manage the previous Bank-financed education project and
other small scale projects. The CEP was responsible for coordination, fiduciary
management, and project reporting.

In the absence of a centralized management and operational framework in the MoES for
administering, coordinating and monitoring donor-financed projects, the establishment of
the CEP was essential to ensure the effective implementation of project activities.

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the Project was carried out in October 2006. A MTR
conference organized by MoES, with the aim of discussing and reviewing Project
implementation progress with the Government and other international donors, was
successful in engaging all stakeholders, from school teachers to international donors,
marz administrators, Ministry officials, and school leaders. The feedback received during
the Conference was strategic in setting the directions for future progress of education
reform in Armenia. In addition, the MTR conference was a good forum to raise public
awareness in relation to the education reforms being implemented in the country without
which the planned changes could not reach the anticipated results.

The MTR assessed that: (i) the Project was steadily advancing towards achieving its
development objectives, as well as the triggers for the second phase of the APL; and (ii)
project components touched on almost every aspect related to the quality of education in
Armenia, and they entailed fundamental and sometimes radical change from the
education system of the Former Soviet Union regime.

However, starting in 2007 pre-school and high school education reforms became the next
big challenges in Armenian education. As such, the Government asked the Association
to expand the scope of the Project to cover these areas with the Project savings (about 7
percent of the original estimated Project costs) resulting from: (i) the lower unit prices of
computer equipment for the schools procured and delivered through the Revolving Fund;
(ii) lower costs of the Teacher Redundancy Program as a result of smaller than expected

                                               10
number of redundant teachers applying for social assistance; (iii) savings gained under
the Project Preparation Facility; and (iv) SDR/US$ exchange rate variations.

The ongoing reforms in general educations in Armenia needed to be sustained, and in
some cases, second-generation refinements were called for. The ongoing reforms in
curriculum, assessment, teacher professional development and the introduction of ICT,
all require a long-term effort to yield the expected outcomes. These reforms were
expanded to include Upper Secondary Education and Early Childhood Education. In the
former, a proposal was planned to entail the introduction of the 12th grade and the
consolidation of high schools, which was to be piloted under the restructured project. As
for Early Childhood Education, a national strategy paper to increase access and improve
quality of preschools in the country was approved and new approaches to preschool
institutions needed to be piloted.

The proposed changes did not have a major effect on the original economic, technical,
institutional and social aspects of the project. As for the financial aspects, the
introduction of reforms in upper secondary and pre-school education did not have fiscal
implications during the project implementation period. However, there was an important
fiscal implication for the Government of Armenia beyond the completion of the Project.
Increased enrollment of children in pre-school as a result of the scaling-up of the pre-
school education reform entailed additional costs to the State Budget. Similarly, a
consolidated high school network providing high quality upper secondary education
required additional investments and budgetary expenditures.

The proposed changes did not imply changes in the project development objectives or in
the expected outcomes of the Project. The proposed additional institutional capacity
strengthening of the main implementing agencies fully supports the original project
objectives under Component 4.

The proposed changes did not affect the environmental category of the Project or
triggered new safeguard policies. The restructuring did not involve any exceptions to the
Association policies.

Accordingly, the Project was restructured in November 2007 and the Credit closing date
extended by one year to allow the implementation of the new activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design, implementation, and utilization of M&E are rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

A monitoring system for each Project component was put in place from the beginning of
the Project and functioned effectively throughout project implementation; project
indicators were regularly monitored during implementation and reported in the CEP
reports, as well as reflected in the Aide Memoires and Implementation Status and Results
Reports (ISRs).



                                           11
However, the Project did not include any independent assessment of outcomes to
evaluate what was achieved by the project, especially regarding the quality of teacher
training, of teaching materials, the curricula, the effective use of technology, as well as
the behavior of teachers regarding private tutoring.

The APL Phase 1 triggers were appropriate in measuring the PDO.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

No safeguards were triggered. The Project was classified as environmental category C.

Financial Management (FM) is rated Satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the Project
was managed by the CEP. The CEP was responsible for FM, including flow of funds,
budgeting, accounting, reporting, and disbursements. The CEP had appropriately
experienced staff, capable to maintain up to date records and prepare financial
management reports on a timely manner. Withdrawal applications were prepared
regularly and supporting documentation was complete. Disbursements under the Credit
generally happened as planned and the proceeds of the Credit were almost entirely
disbursed. The FM arrangements of the CEP were reviewed periodically as a part of
project supervision and found, in most cases, satisfactory. The 2006 review of financial
management arrangements of the CEP demonstrated that although the financial
management system including accounting, budgeting, and reporting was overall strong,
there were weaknesses in the internal controls particularly over contracting and payments
practices and therefore the FM was rated as Moderately Satisfactory at that time.
However, the recommendations of the 2006 review were fulfilled and no further
problems were observed, thus the FM rating was upgraded to Satisfactory. The Project's
financial statements were audited on an annual basis by independent auditors and all
audit reports were unqualified.
Procurement is rated Satisfactory. Procurement was implemented without major
difficulties and its performance was consistently rated Satisfactory. Procurement
activities performed under the Project were done in accordance with agreed procurement
methods and were considered of satisfactory quality during implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Support to the education sector is continuing through Phase 2 of the APL approved in
April 2009 (Credit number 4565 AM), and effective in October 2009.

Education has been a priority sector for public investment in Armenia since the late
1990s. In addition, the Government has made a concerted effort to allocate more funds to
general secondary education, in particular to improve access to and quality of education
at this level. The education sector is currently prioritized by the Armenian Government
as one of the prerequisites of sustained development of the country as well as
                                             12
preservation and reproduction of human capital. Reform projects at all levels of the
education system are being implemented to ensure universally accessible quality
education and to increase its efficiency. The national Strategy for Pre-school Education
(2008), the High School Reform Program (2008), and the signing of the Bologna
declaration (2005) are three policies that highlight Armenia's commitment to a profound
modernization of the education system.

The original APL framework was for a 10-year program, divided into three phases.
Because of the strong performance under the EQRP (APL 1) and clear reform direction
for the next five years, it was decided to merge the two subsequent phases (APL 2 and
APL 3) into a single five year second phase operation. By January 2009, all seven
triggers leading to the second phase of the APL had been met. More significantly, four
out of five triggers established for the transition from the second to the third phase had
also been fully met.

The second phase of the APL will continue to focus on the reform of the general
secondary education system. In doing so, it will also address key policy issues in both
higher education and pre-school education that are intimately related to those reforms.
The high-school reform approved in 2008 is expected to create a more diversified upper
secondary education, which in turn would also demand a more diversified tertiary
education system, both with regard to institutions and specific study programs.

Many activities supported by the Project have been institutionalized, as discussed in
Section 3.5.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The Project objectives of improving the quality and relevance of the Armenian school
system to meet the challenges of the knowledge society were and remain highly relevant
and consistent with the country's development priorities specified in 2003 Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the follow-up 2008 PRSP, the Bank's education
strategy, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) approved in 2004, the Sustainable
Development Program (SDP) approved in 2008, as well as national Strategy for Pre-
school Education and the High School Reform Program (adopted by the Government in
2008).

As indicated elsewhere in this report, at the time of project design and given the scope
and expected pace of implementation of education reforms, a three-phase APL approach
was the most appropriate instrument to ensure achievement of the Program development
objectives and its long-term sustainability. However, because of (i) the strong
performance under APL I; (ii) a clear reform direction for the next five years including
adoption of the National Strategy for Pre-school Education and the High School Reform
Program in 2008, which are highly relevant to ensure a comprehensive sector reform; and


                                                13
(iii) early than expected fulfillment of triggers to transition from the second to the third
phase, it was agreed to merge APL II and APL III into a 5-year APL II.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The achievement of the PDO is rated as Satisfactory. Based on actual number of teachers
trained, the Project over achieved its single outcome indicator -- share of teachers
engaged in activities likely to develop the necessary knowledge and competencies in their
students. The end of project target for this indicator was 70 percent, but the Project
significantly exceeded its target and by project closing 90 percent of teachers had been
trained. However, given that an independent assessment of the quality of training
provided to teachers was not conducted, nor an evaluation to determine if overall
classroom practices had changed, it is difficult to assess the extent to which this training
strengthened the abilities of teachers to develop the necessary knowledge and
competences in their students.

Given the fact that the Project only had one outcome indicator, the ICR team also
reviewed the intermediate indicators to get a better sense of project performance. Based
on Borrower's reports, ISRs and several visits to schools, the ICR team confirms that
every single intermediate indicator was met or achieved, as listed in the Project's
datasheet. At the same time, as stated above, there was no impact evaluation on these
interventions to determine if and how they impacted classroom practices and if they led
to the acquisition of new knowledge and competences among students.

For example, the original target for indicator # 1 was 80 percent of schools using the New
National Curriculum and with aligned learning materials. By project closing, 100 percent
of the schools had met that indicator. Indeed the curriculum has been changed and
modernized and it is broadly used. However, the effectiveness of the new curriculum
remains to be assessed.

Other example is indicator # 7 that has been nominally overachieved: "320 schools are
using technology effectively" (the initial target was 140). In fact, this indicator was
monitoring the number of school connected to the internet, not how the technology was
being used. During the school visits, there was evidence that computer labs were not so
intensively used by students -- at least not so intensively to conclude that these schools
"use technology effectively."

The final example, indicator # 11 on teacher salaries, increased twice more than planned,
as a result of teacher optimization. Again, the indicator has been overachieved, but as
with the previous two examples, there is no evidence of change in teacher behavior and
professional attitude as a result of salary increases. Furthermore, despite the lack of
evidence, the perception on the ground is that the private tutoring is continuing and out-
of-pocket payments by families continue to be a burden -- especially for the poor.



                                               14
3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

An economic analysis of the Project was not carried out for this ICR. However, in trying
to identify efficiency contributions of the Project, the team considered the Economic and
Financial Analysis of the follow-up project, which examined (i) cost-effectiveness of
investing in pre-school education; (ii) cost-effectiveness of investing in ICT and its
integration in the teaching and learning process; and (iii) cost-efficiency and quality
improvement of high school reform.

      (i)      Benefits of investing in preschool education
International evidence indicates that the lack of access to pre-school is detrimental to the
school readiness of children, as measured by their capacity (i) to learn in Grade 1 and
beyond, (ii) to transition successfully from one grade to another, (iii) to complete their
education, and (iv) to eventually become fully contributing and productive members of
society. In Armenia, while official statistics show a relatively low level of school
repetitions and dropouts, the number of primary level dropouts has sharply increased in
the recent past (at an average annual growth rate of 250 percent), and there is evidence of
significant school wastage, particularly in relation to absenteeism and automatic
promotion without any form of remedial education. Poor and falling access to preschool
education is likely to be a cause of this deterioration.
In response to this critical situation, the Government's pre-school strategy aims to
increase the enrollment rates of pre-school age children (ages 4 to 6) up to 90 percent by
2015. Under the APL I, the Government piloted a pre-school project that provided grants
to 22 communities in Lori and Shirak Marzs to establish a pre-school section in existing
schools or independent kindergartens.

      (ii) Cost-effectiveness of investing in ICT network and its integration in the teaching
           and learning process
The provision of Internet connectivity is an important element of a long-term vision to
accelerate and sustain the growth of the ICT industry in Armenia and, more broadly, "to
position Armenia in the knowledge-based global economy."2 Extending connectivity to
remote schools in Armenia is expected to help the Government meet this goal, in addition
to fulfilling pledges to provide equal access to information. The positive impact of ICT
use in education on student achievement is more likely to be observed when ICTs are
used appropriately to complement a teacher's adoption of active methodologies.
International evidence suggests that school principals' support for ICTs--who could be
strong obstacles to the introduction of ICTs, especially in remote areas--is crucial to
promote the effective use of ICTs in school. By providing a computer for the EMIS and



2
    One of the two main goals of the government's ICT Master Strategy.


                                                    15
administrative purposes and relevant training, the Project is contributing to generate their
support and give them an opportunity to appreciate the effectiveness of ICTs.
Under the APL I, the Government begun: (i) extending the Internet connectivity to
remote schools (currently 644 schools are included in the School Network), (ii)
developing high-quality and relevant electronic materials, and (iii) providing computer
equipment to be exclusively used for EMIS-related school administration.

   (iii)    Cost-efficiency and quality improvement of high school reform

The high-school reform, approved in 2008 is expected to create a more diversified upper
secondary education which, in turn, would also demand a more diversified tertiary
education system, both with regard to institutions and specific study programs. Upper
secondary students will be provided with new opportunities for more advanced study of
Mathematics, Languages and Sciences thanks to the introduction of new streams in the
curriculum. There will be a new learning environment with new technologies and
modern laboratories, in the hands of better trained and more motivated teachers.

The enhanced quality of education in upper secondary and in-depth study of subjects by
choices would positively affect on early orientation of high school students for making
the best possible decision on future specialization. Admission decisions on the part of
universities could therefore be better informed.

Financing reforms started under the Education Financing and Management Reform
project and implemented under the APL I in general secondary education have boosted
efficiency at the school level and enhanced school autonomy. Largely due to the
introduction of the per capita financing scheme accompanied by financial autonomy at
the school level, the majority of general secondary schools have consolidated classes to
the extent possible and there is little room for further efficiency gains at the school level.

The role and the capacity of School Boards as key accountability instruments was
strengthened under the Project and allowed, among other things, to directly tackle
corruption practices in general schools. Moreover, the high schools pilot, financed by the
Project in 10 schools, have already made a difference in terms of reducing private
tutoring at that level and all the dubious practices associated to that phenomenon.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome is rated satisfactory for the following reasons. First, at the time of
design the Project was highly relevant in terms of country priorities, supporting the
Government's overall strategy and consistent with the objectives and the CAS. The
Project was also consistent and supportive of the PRSP's goals. Additionally, the Project
has maintained high strategic and substantive relevance throughout implementation,
particularly during the recent and current economic crisis context. Third, the Project has
contributed to institutional capacity building. Finally, the Project achieved its single
outcome indicator, as well as all of its intermediate indicators.
                                             16
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Data to monitor the Project's impact on poverty and gender were not collected; therefore
it is difficult to make verifiable conclusions on poverty and gender impacts of the Project.
The Project was effective in reaching the intended Project beneficiaries such as pupils,
teachers and educational professionals.
During the implementation of the Project, good progress was made through sizeable
investments in badly needed physical infrastructure, putting educational technology in
schools, and preparing the basis for key reforms focusing on the quality of education. As
a result of these efforts, the student-teacher ratio increased from 10.8 in 2003 to 14. 5 in
2009, the enrollment rate for compulsory education increased from 84.5 in 2001 to 89.5
in 2008 and the literacy rate is almost 100 percent, irrespective of gender and ethnicity.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The Project focused on strengthening the existing education institutions and creating new
capacities to plan, implement and monitor the education reforms. The Project succeeded
in assisting the Government of Armenia in the following manner: (i) the development of
the National Curriculum Framework, standards and syllabi and implementation of the
new curriculum up to 9th grade; (ii) the creation of the Assessment and Testing Center
(ATC) and the introduction of a transparent examination system and enhanced capacity to
assess student performance; (iii) the establishment of the National Center of Education
Technology (NACET) and the creation of school learning centers through an effective
Computer Revolving scheme; (iv) a massive and significant in-service teacher training
effort was carried out through the improved National Institute of Education and the
network of 52 school-centers selected and strengthened within the Project; and (v)
consolidation of a successful per capita funding system resulting in substantial efficiency
gains, increased student-teacher ratios, and enhanced school autonomy.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
At the general secondary education level, Armenia's national 8th and 10th grade
examinations still have not produced reliable indicators to measure students' performance.
However, the results of TIMSS 2007 (Trends in International Mathematics and Science
Study -4th and 8th grade student achievement in Math and Science) clearly show that the
quality of the education system has improved significantly over the past four years. In
fact, Armenia is the only ECA country that obtained significantly better scores in all four
categories in comparison to the results of 2003. APL I can legitimately take some credit
for these results, as it directly supported the curriculum reform, and financed a substantial
amount of training for master trainers of secondary teachers of Mathematics and Science
teachers.




                                               17
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
Armenia needs to strengthen the knowledge base and skills of its human capital. This is
an especially important dimension of the country's long-term competitiveness strategy.
Therefore, there is strong evidence that the Project's support to modernize the education
system will continue to be Armenia's medium and long-term development goal.

The Government has boosted public expenditure on education in recent years, and is
committed to further increase it in the next decade. In its first PRSP in 2003, the
Government planned to boost public education spending to 4 percent of GDP by 2015, as
an important pillar of its poverty reduction strategy. Indeed, between 2003 and 2008, the
consolidated budget for education had a 20 percent annual increased from AMD 35
billion (US$61 million) to AMD 111 billion (US$362 million). In particular, the
Government has made a concerted effort to allocate more resources to general secondary
education to improve access to and quality of education at this level. The second PRSP,
prepared in 2008, aimed to raise education spending further, up to 4.5 percent of GDP by
2021.

The downturn in the economy anticipated in 2010 triggered by the global financial crisis
is expected to have implications for the budget of Armenia and how much will be
allocated Education spending. The Government, however, has committed to continuing
to make education a priority and making high school reform in particular a priority, as it
is a key to future competitiveness.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR author rates IDA's performance in ensuring quality at entry as Satisfactory,
based on the following strengths: (i) consistency with the objectives of the CAS, poverty
assessment, and Government's priorities for the education sector; (ii) incorporation of
experience and lessons gained from the previous IDA-financed education project; (iii)
factoring stakeholder views into the definition of priorities and the details of project
design; (iv) assessing risks realistically and including strong mitigating measures in
project design; and (v) ensuring implementation capacity of the institutions involved.




                                              18
The Association's team was strong and had the appropriate skills mix. The thorough
preparation process with extensive discussions and workshops contributed to fostering
and strengthening the ownership of the Government.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Association's performance during implementation is rated as Satisfactory. During
Project supervision, the team provided good guidance to assure smooth implementation
of activities, including maintaining a strong and open policy dialogue in the education
sector. The team provided technical advice in an effective and timely fashion.

Supervision inputs and processes were adequate. Regular procurement and financial
management reviews were carried out. There was adequate support from the
Association's procurement and financial management specialists, which resulted in quick
turnaround time and responses to no objection requests and other procurement matters.
The implementation reviews provided detailed assessment of project progress and useful
recommended actions.

The Mid-term Review (MTR) was instrumental in taking stock of progress, and most of
the recommendations made during the MTR addressed the long-term sustainability issues
and the overall education reform agenda.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The team provided technical advice in an effective and timely fashion. The quality of
technical advice during project preparation and implementation was high, the turn-around
times and responsiveness to client's request adequate, and the overall support appreciated
by the client. Therefore, the ICR's assessment of the overall IDA performance is rated as
Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Government performance is considered Satisfactory. The Project was an
integral part of the Government's vision and reform agenda. The Government
demonstrated its full commitment to the Program's objectives by actively participating
during Project preparation, continuously supporting ongoing activities and ensuring
availability of counterpart financing.

Despite changes of Ministers, the Ministry did not change the course of the ongoing
reform activities, and provided technical staff with the space and continuity to implement
the Project.

                                                   19
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Center for Education Projects (CEP) is assessed as Satisfactory.

The CEP coordinated the implementation of the Project in a professional and timely
manner. The director and staff responsible for each component as well as key personnel
remained in the same position from project preparation through completion, contributing
to continuity of the reform and strong ownership of the Project. The CEP provided
focused support, facilitated coordination effectively and provided effective
communication between IDA and Project Implementing Institutions (National Institute of
Education, Assessment and Testing Center, and National Center for Education
Technology, National Employment Service, Social Insurance State Fund, School-
Centers) involved in the Project.

Procurement activities under the Project were done in accordance with agreed
procurement methods and were of satisfactory quality throughout implementation.

The periodical reviews of financial management arrangements demonstrated that
although the financial management system including accounting, budgeting, and
reporting was overall strong, there were weaknesses in the internal controls particularly
over contracting and payments practices in 2006.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the performance of the borrower is rated as satisfactory. As mentioned, the
strong ownership of the Government was exemplary. In addition, the MoES through CEP
implemented the Project in a professional and timely manner.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Reflecting on the overall project implementation and achievements of the PDO, the key
lessons that have been learned and/or reinforced during project implementation are as
follows:
       Despite changes of Ministers, continuity and commitment of senior level Ministry
       officials during the Project's life are the key to the smooth project
       implementation, and therefore to the overall project success.
       Achieving public consensus on reform issues by sharing with the public the work
       accomplished and conducting open discussions on issues affecting beneficiaries
       are essential for building ownership and commitment to reforms and developing
       the culture of accountability. In particular, when big changes are expected.



                                           20
       Good analytical work to inform project design, competent technical assistance as
       well as envisaging adequate time for the education system to accept changes and
       innovations (and for preparing it to the changes) at the initial stage are crucial
       when fundamental reforms are expected.

       Providing continuous guidance in the context of an ambitious reform agenda is
       essential. IDA supervision must be continuous and intensive. Proactive and
       timely monitoring and support by the Bank's team are crucial for Project success.

       In order to get a "story behind the numbers," projects should include an impact
       evaluation or at least an independent assessment of outcome indicators to evaluate
       the quality of training provided by the project, behavioral changes of teachers and
       effective use of technology.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The ICR was reviewed and commented by the Ministry of Education and Science (May
2010) and the Center for Education Projects (April 2010). Their full assessment of the
Project's impact as well as detailed comments to this document are included in Annex 7.

The Government made two comments on the ICR:

       First, they believed the Project's outcome rating should have been Highly
       Satisfactory, rather than Satisfactory, as assessed by the Association. The
       higher rating is justified by the Project having over-achieved its single outcome
       indicator as well as achieved or exceeded its intermediate indicators. Additionally,
       the time period between the activities being implemented (2006-2007) and the
       Project's closing date was too short for one to observe significant changes at the
       classroom level, particularly as these changes are slow to occur. While the ICR
       team agrees with these points, in the absence of an impact evaluation of teacher
       training or an equivalent rigorous study of the impact of the interventions in
       "improving the quality and relevance of the Armenian school system to meet the
       challenges of the knowledge society," a Satisfactory rating was assigned.

       Second, they believed that the Project's Monitoring and Evaluation should
       have been rated higher than Moderately Satisfactory. Indeed there were
       numerous studies carried out under the Project in an attempt to measure the
       impact of its interventions. While the ICR team recognizes the Government's
       effort in monitoring project implementation, a review of those studies shows that
       they are more oriented to processes (i.e. measuring inputs) than to the outcomes
       and a more comprehensive evaluation of project outcomes was lacking.

Finally, another point raised by the Government was the negative impact of the high
turnover of task team leaders on the Association's side during the initial years of
implementation. While there were three task team leaders (TTLs) assigned to this project,
                                           21
including the one responsible for project preparation, the second TTL stayed for a very
brief time while the third one stayed for most of the implementation period. Nonetheless,
as continuity in team leadership is normally helpful for implementation, the ICR team
notes this point.

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                           22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Appraisal Estimate Actual Estimate      Percentage of
          Components
                                  (USD millions)    (USD millions)       Appraisal
 NATIONAL CURRICULUM
                                         3.90              3.00              77%
AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
SCHOOL EDUCATIONAL
                                         7.90              6.40              81%
TECHNOLOGIES
TEACHER PROFESSIONAL
                                         4.90              6.00              122%
DEVELOPMENT
 SYSTEM MANAGEMENT
                                         3.60              3.10              86%
AND EFFICIENCY
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT                      1.40              2.10              150%

            Total Project Costs        21.70               20.60             95%


(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal      Actual
                                    Type of        Estimate     Estimate    Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                  Cofinancing        (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)    millions)
Borrower                                        2.70         0.70           26
International Development
                                                19.00        19.90          105
Association (IDA)
Total Project Costs                             21.70        20.60          95%




                                         23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: National Curriculum and Assessment System (actual cost US$ 3.00
million equivalent, 77 percent of appraisal estimate)

The objective of the Curriculum and Assessment component was to align the content of
general education to deliver a high quality and relevant education to all students in
Armenia. The objective of the component was fully achieved as evidenced by:

       Over achieved output indicator 1: New National Curriculum Framework as well
       as Subject Standards and Syllabi for all subjects and grades with supporting
       textbooks and teacher guides are produced and provided to every school in the
       country. Teaching in all schools is conducted with new curriculum and learning
       materials.
        Fully achieved output indicators 2: 95% of trained teachers understand and
        accept the rationale of the reform of the curriculum and assessment.
        Fully achieved output indicator 3: 70 % of teachers use enhanced classroom-
        based assessment practices to inform students and parents of learning and
        progress.
        Fully achieved output indicator 4: New school graduation and university entrance
        unified exams were piloted and gradually introduced in three years period. In
        2009 all exams were carried on according to new procedures.
        Over achieved output indicator 8: 35% of teachers are ICT literate.
        Over achieved output indicator 9: 95% of project schools use innovative
        experimentation of active learning teaching methods.

a) National Curriculum
During 2003-04 new National Curriculum Framework (NCF) and State Standards for
General Education (SSGE) were developed, widely discussed, agreed with specialists
and key stakeholders and formally adopted by the Government. Two important aspects
in regard to NCF and SSGE should be highlighted: the process and the outcome.
The process of creating these documents was a real collaborative and cooperative work.
The working group consisting of 18 specialists, during almost one year, demonstrated an
exceptional example of a group work. Professionals, with different backgrounds (school
teachers, university lecturers, researchers and methodology specialists) and having almost
opposite views on curriculum design at the beginning of the work, were able to produce a
well-structured document. The public discussion of the NCF and SSGE was a "grass root"
activity involving the whole country - schools, universities, principles, teachers, parents,
interested government entities, nongovernmental organizations and general public. The
important suggestions were incorporated in the documents. Finally, the NCF working
group members participated in TV and radio programs, talk shows, as well as in local
newsletters clarifying different aspects of the documents.
The outcome of the work was also significant. The developed NCF and SSGE documents
have comprehensive, all inclusive content and original structure. NCF enabled the shift to
12-year general education. The general educational content was newly defined in NCF

                                            24
and educational components were clarified. The educational content was defined not in
separate subjects as it used to be in Soviet times but in educational areas. Therefore, NCF
has ensured horizontal and vertical integration between individual subjects into broader
learning areas.

Another new aspect of the NCF was the use of ICT. The requirement of wide use of ICT
both as an individual learning area starting from grade 6 of the secondary school (instead
of grade 9 of high school according to the old curriculum) and as a new teaching/learning
tool in other areas was set up in the NCF. The NCF also promotes student-centered
interactive teaching methods.

Since 2004, after approval of NCF, elaboration, piloting and introduction of individual
subject syllabi and subject standards in schools have started. By November 2005
syllabuses of Armenian Language and Literature, Mathematics and ICT for 12-year
school were developed, critically reviewed by relevant specialists, piloted in 52 school-
centers, revised based on the results of pilot and expertise and approved by the MoES.
Based on these standards and syllabi, the Textbook Revolving Fund (TRF) competitively
selected new textbooks and teachers' manuals which were published and distributed to
schools.

The introduction of new curriculum in high school has started in the school year 2009-
2010 parallel to the creation of high schools. Until 2000, the general secondary education
system in Armenia consisted of eight years of compulsory basic education (three years of
primary and five years of lower secondary) and two years of upper secondary education.
From 2001, the 11-year general secondary education system was introduced in order to
provide a smooth transition to the 12-year system. Therefore there were two curriculums
in use at the same time, the10-year and the 11-year. In the 2006/2007 academic year the
MoES started to transfer to a 12-year school system (grades 1-4 for primary and grade 5-
9 for lower secondary) and three years of upper secondary education (grades 10-12),
which was one key element of the Government reforms and National Curriculum
Framework.

b) Assessment and Examination
The main objective of the Assessment and Examination sub-component was to (i)
develop a national policy for evaluating educational outcomes; (ii) develop an
examination at the end of secondary education (Matura); (iii) build the capacity of the
Ministry to analyze assessment data for policy-making; (iv) help teachers to use
classroom-based assessments, and (v) participate in the next round of TIMSS in 2007.

New assessment goals and principles were developed by the NCF working group and
included in NCF document. This was the first time an attempt was made to reinforce
close links between curriculum and assessment. New assessment goals were designed to
develop and measure students' knowledge and competencies, as well as performance of
the schools and the entire system for the new society and modern economy.




                                            25
One of the Project's objectives and effectiveness conditions was the creation of the
Assessment and Testing Center (ATC). The ATC was created in April 14, 2004 as a
separate institution under supervision of the MoES with the legal status of state non-
profit organization. In 2004 the Director of ATC was appointed. During 2005 the ATC,
through project funds, was provided with a set of optical and computer equipment
required for conducting new exams and two vehicles. The reconstruction of the building
was completed in December 2006. The furniture was supplied to the ATC in November
2006, and the computer equipment was delivered to the ATC in May 2007. The printing
equipment was also procured through the Project. It was supplied and installed in ATC in
September 2008. Currently, ATC is a well functioning institution, fully refurbished and
equipped with modern equipment. It has nine administrative divisions and 70 staff
members. Since 2009 ATC has been fully in charge of preparing and carrying out unified
school graduation and university entrance examinations.

Since 2004, the development of Secondary School graduation tests and Higher
Education Institutions entrance exam specifications and test items for 10 core subjects
(Armenian language, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Geography, History,
Russian, English, and French) has been started. The test development was carried by 10
subject working groups composed of school teachers, university lecturers and other
education specialists. In eight months, all 10 subject groups produced sample tests, which
included multiple choice, binary (true/false, yes/no), open-ended, and short-answer type
questions. These tests were pre-tested and analyzed for the level of difficulty and
discrimination index of each item, distribution of scores and tables with descriptive
statistics were produced. The development of tests for 10 different subjects was a full-
size effort of 45 people. Given that national experts were lacking knowledge, skills and
experience in item construction and test theory at the beginning of the process, but were
able to produce tests at internationally acceptable standards in such a short time period,
the results can be assessed as really significant. It was the first time in Armenia that the
culture of test construction and the understanding of test theory were introduced.

In parallel with the works on establishing the ATC and developing new generation tests,
the MoES was heavily engaged in finalizing the overall government policy and detailing
procedures for: (i) formative, continuous assessment of learners; (ii) public examinations
for graduation at each level of education and (iii) entrance to higher education institutions.
During 2004 the Education Assessment Policy Paper was developed, discussed with
education field specialists and key stakeholders, and eventually by the Government in
2005. The Assessment Policy Paper was published in the form of a small booklet and
2,000 copies were distributed to schools and other educational institutions. A new
assessment policy paper suggested using unified exams model (school Matura and HEI
competition entrance) as practiced in different countries to ensure equal conditions for the
applicants taking exams in the selected localities all over the Republic.

The introduction of the new unified exams was carried out gradually during a three year
period. The first examination for Armenian Language and Literature took place on June
1, 2007. In 2008 the number of examined subjects according to new procedures was
extended. Exams took place during June 2-18, 2008 for the following subjects: Armenian
Language and Literature, Russian Language, Mathematics, and Foreign Languages

                                             26
(English, French, and German). The unified examination is now embedded in the system
and scaled to twelve subjects in 2009: Armenian Language and Literature, Mathematics,
English, French, German, Russian, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Geography, Armenian
History, and World History.

Since 2005 MoES initiated the development of the continuous, formative, classroom-
based assessment strategy as well as assessment materials and test items for classroom
use. To accomplish this task a working group was created in October 2005, which
drafted the guidelines "Concept on Students Continuous Assessment: General Statement,
Basic Approaches." The draft paper was approved by the MoES in January 2007 and
piloted in 4 schools. During the academic year 2007/2008 the pilot was extended to 10
more schools. Additionally, several schools piloted the paper on a voluntary basis. The
last version of the "Concept of Students Continuous Assessment: General Statement,
Basic Approaches" was approved by the MoES in August 2008, and has been in use in
schools since September 2008. One component of the Concept, the 10-scale scoring
system, was introduced compulsorily in all schools in Armenia.

Armenia participated in the International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) for
the first time in 2003. This was a major step enabling country to provide internationally
comparable evidence of students' achievement and use results as a basis for policy
dialogue. The TIMSS 2003 National Report was prepared, published and distributed to
all participated schools, Marz Education Departments, and the MoES. Armenia results
included in the International Report were discussed at the MoES and MEDs seminars for
schools. The TIMSS 2007 field test was conducted in 35 schools of Armenia in 2006.
The administration of TIMSS 2007, data entry, analysis and preparation of report was
contracted to National Institute of Education. The TIMSS 2007 Main Survey took place
in May 2007 in 150 Secondary Schools of Armenia. The results in 4th and 8th Grade
Mathematics were stunning, while those for Science were just acceptable. The overall
score in 8th grade Math was 499, right in between the intermediate and high international
benchmark and, to give a comparative reference, better than the results of Italy, Scotland,
Australia or Sweden. Even more importantly, Armenia was the only ECA country that
obtained significantly better scores in all four categories in comparison to the results of
2003. The Project can legitimately take some credit for these results, as the effort carried
out under the project in curriculum reform and in training master trainers and primary and
secondary teachers of Math was considerable. The MoE created a TIMSS Unit at the
Assessment and Testing Center and allocated funds in the 2009 and 2010 national budget
to cover Armenia's participation fees in the next administration of the Test. This is good
evidence of the commitment and ownership with one of the crucial interventions
supported by the Project.

Although the actual cost of the Component 1 was only 77 percent of estimated cost, all
originally planned activities, as well as activities added at restructuring were
implemented. The cost under run was due to the savings gained under the Project
Preparation Facility, as well as favorable exchange rate SDR/US$ and US$/AMD.




                                            27
Component 2: ICT in Education (actual cost US$ 6.4 million equivalent, 81 percent of
appraisal estimate)

The main objective of this component was to incorporate ICT in the learning and
teaching process, so as to improve student learning outcomes through the use of ICT and
increase the quality, effectiveness and efficiency of teachers and schools. The objective
of the component was fully achieved as evidenced by:

       Over achieved output indicator 5: 78.6 % of schools (1,153 schools) had received
       hardware (against the target 70%). About 6,000 computers were provided to all
       schools included in the CRS.
       Over achieved output indicator 6: every school that received SLC hardware from CRS
       have made payments to CRS. The overall repayment collection rate was 95.8
       percent (against the target 90 percent). The collected amount is about US$1.6
       million, which is a remarkable achievement in itself, especially considering the
       social level of the population.

The School Learning Centers (SLCs) were created as computerized classrooms,
containing a wide range of media and relevant, stimulating, well-designed information
materials. Provision of hardware to the SLCs was the first activity under the ICT
component that was implemented through five stages during project implementation.

The Computer Revolving Scheme (CRS) was introduced in 2004. The main objectives of
the CRS were (i) to provide equal opportunities to all schools in having access to
computers and other accompanying hardware; (ii) to make available computers and other
hardware at the lowest possible cost to schools/parents by making them available on
interest-free credit terms; and (iii) to create sustainable funding in order to be able to
replace computers at the end of their useful life. At the design stage, the CRS implied
establishing School Learning Centers in the majority of Armenian schools during a five
year period and providing the hardware/software to the schools on five year interest-free
credit terms. It was planned that schools would fully repay the hardware/software cost to
the CRS bank account in that period. The annual credit payments collected from schools
would be used for provision of additional hardware to schools or replacement their
outdated ones after the five year period. In order to repay the hardware credit, the school
was free to collect per student credit repayment fee or obtain the funds from other sources,
i.e. sponsors, school budgets, etc.

The experience of the first year of running CRS indicated that the set repayment targets
were high and therefore unrealistic. 100% cost recovery of the computer equipment and
self-sustainability scenario was too ambitious to realize in the real life. Right at the outset,
it became clear that the vast majority of schools were not able to order their
predetermined quantities necessary for ensuring full-range ICT-learning due to bad social
conditions of their communities and low credit repayment power. Schools were facing
difficulties in paying against even significantly decreased quantities of equipment. Thus,
in order to make CRF attractive to schools the CRF was modified in a way that schools
receive the hardware on more favorable terms, i.e. with a significant discount.


                                              28
So, the low enrollment rates in the first year of Scheme's operation become a ground
for modification of the Scheme. First of all, a slight proportionate decrease to previously
estimated equipment quantities for schools of different sizes has been applied to ensure
affordability of hardware/software to schools. The second and most important change
was significant reduction of the equipment cost to schools. The new procedure implied
provision of computer hardware/software to schools on two-year interest-free credit terms
at just 30% of the equipment's purchase price plus 20% VAT, which comes to about
41.67% of VAT-included price. The modification to the Scheme was applied to the
schools that have already been enrolled in the CRS as well.

The collection of repayment fees was quite difficult process but challenging task. The
overall collection rate was 95.8% (against the target 90 %). The collected amount was
about 1.060.425 USD, which was a remarkable achievement, especially if the social level
of the population is considered

One of the main objectives of the ICT component was to create a professional institution
--"National Center of Educational Technologies" (NACET) - in charge of all ICT
activities in the field of education. This was also a project effectiveness condition.

The NACET was founded in 2004 by a Government decision as a state non-profit
organization under the supervision of the MoES. The NACET is in charge of
incorporating ICT in schools, particularly furnishing schools with modern computer
equipment, schools networking, and training of teachers in ICT usage. NACET is also in
charge of coordinating the work of local and international organizations and NGOs in the
field of ICT.

One of the key activities planned under the ICT component of the Project was school
networking and provision of Internet for 140 schools. However, this activity was
delayed due agreed restrictions for payments against expenditures for IT networking as
specified in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). Section 3(b), Schedule 1 of
Credit Agreement stated: "no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures under IT Networks until the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory
to the Association which provides for affordable internet access to schools." Specifically,
the Minutes of Negotiations stated that "Satisfactory to the Association means that
Armenia will be included in the top 50% of countries on the Affordability Index published
by the International Telecommunications Union."

Since 2004, internet provision in Armenia was significantly liberalized and became
competitive. The Association considered the above mentioned disbursement condition
fulfilled in October 2007, after receiving a confirmation from the Government of
Armenia that the relevant funds would be allocated for financing the sustainability of
internet provision to schools. Therefore, the Center for Education Projects (CEP) started
school networking activities at the end of the 2007. The CEP has conducted extensive
field work and prepared the networking plan according which 320 schools (instead of
planned 140) were included in the School Network. The network was built in 2008. The
final acceptance of the system and its transfer to the NACET was completed in March
2009. Currently 644 schools of Armenia are included in the School Network.

                                            29
Although the actual cost of the Component 1 was 81 percent of estimated cost, all
originally planned activities were implemented. The savings have resulted from the lower
unit prices of computer equipment for the schools procured and delivered through the
Revolving Fund.


Component 3: Teacher Professional Development (TPD) (actual cost US$ 6.0 million
equivalent, 122 percent of appraisal estimate)

The objective of the Teacher Professional Development component was to enhance the
quality of teaching and learning processes in schools by improving the pedagogical
knowledge and skills of teachers. The objective of the component was fully achieved as
evidenced by:

       Over achieved outcome indicator: Based on actual number of teachers trained and
       surveys 90 % of teachers are engaged in activities likely to develop the necessary
       knowledge and competencies in their students.
        Fully achieved output indicators 2: 95% of trained teachers understand and
        accept the rationale of the reform of the curriculum and assessment.
        Fully achieved output indicator 3: 70 % of teachers use enhanced classroom-
        based assessment practices to inform students and parents of learning and
        progress.
        Over achieved output indicator 8: 35% of teachers are ICT literate.
        Over achieved output indicator 9: 95% of project schools use innovative
        experimentation of active learning teaching methods.

In order to achieve the component development objectives, the activities in this
component were performed in 4 directions:


                            Teacher Professional Development




   Training of               Preparing             Development of       Networking and
   trainers and             teachers for          teaching methods       dissemination
  material design         change and train

The First activity started under this component was training in cooperative training
methods. For this purpose international consultant were competitively selected, who
trained 30 trainers during the period November 2004 to September 2005. Training of
trainers was conducted through three subsequent workshops - 5 days each. In between the
workshops 30 trainers developed training materials with the on-line support of the
consultant and piloted them in small groups of teachers mostly from remote areas. As a

                                             30
result, two books were written: "Cooperative Learning: Manual" and "Cooperative
Learning: Trainers' Guide" for trainers and teachers. These books were published (3,000
and 1,000, correspondingly) and distributed to teachers. Between 2006 and 2008, these
30 trainers trained about 300 teachers from School Centers. Training of teachers was also
conducted through three successive workshops. This approach contributed in enhancing
the efficiency of training workshops and in converting the modern teaching approaches
into teachers' advanced knowledge and skills.

The introduction of the new 12-year Curriculum Framework, subject area syllabuses and
standards, and cooperative learning methods in schools required a massive teacher
training program. Every teacher participated in the five day training workshops before
starting teaching the new curriculum. The total number of subject teachers trained was
42,000. Of those 35,000 teachers were trained with project financing and the remaining
7.000 teachers (physical education and art) were trained by NIE through the state budget
by using the methodology and training approaches designed under the Project.

The introduction of a new formative assessment system was also implemented in
combination with appropriate teacher training program. Training on formative
assessment was conducted in two phases. In the first phase (2007) 12,678 teachers of
Armenian Language, Mathematics and Informatics were trained. The second phase of
training was conducted in 2009 only after the final Learners' Assessment Policy Paper
was approved. In the second phase 9,845 teachers of Natural and Social Sciences and
Foreign Languages were trained. In total 22,523 teachers were trained on formative
assessment.

The Project also implemented training of teachers in ICT in two phases. In total, about
9,560 teachers were trained in ICT. In the first phase 30 hours of basic computer literacy
training was provided to teachers and in the second phase about 550 High School
teachers were trained in using ICT as a teaching and learning tool through 60 hours
program.

Given that new activities were added to this component at the restructuring, the actual
cost of the component was 122 percent of estimated cost. The cost overrun was cover by
the savings from components 1, 2 and 4.


Component 4: System Management and Efficiency (actual cost US$ 3.1 million
equivalent, 86 percent of appraisal estimate)

 The fourth component helped to improve the management and efficiency of the
education system.

A "Staff Optimization and Social Assistance Program" (SOSAP) was designed and
launched under the Project. The redundant teachers were given a choice from a menu of
social assistance services including: (i) counseling services in job-search; (ii) training and
re-qualification programs; (iii) relocation grants; (iv) assistance in self-employment; and
(v) additional cash payment equaling to six month wages of a teacher. The latter was

                                             31
made available only to redundant teachers who were 50 years or older at the date of
dismissal and had not reached their retirement age.
The executing agencies of the SOSAP were the National Employment Service (NES)
with its Territorial Employment Centers, Social Insurance State Fund (SISF) and CEP.
Through the credit funds CEP procured and provided to the NES computer and office
equipment, furniture, stationary and other office supplies required for effective
organization of the social assistance program. In addition, software and database for the
NES containing comprehensive information on redundant teachers and type of social
assistance provided to them was developed. The labor market survey was implemented
by NES as well. As of June 2007 approximately 3,159 redundant teachers were
registered in the NES and 2,323 of them had participated in several programs. In
particular, 1,731 teachers received additional cash payments; 69 received location grants;
523 participated in professional trainings; and 28 received psychological assistance.
The main reason for low enrollment in the SOSAP was due to several problems. Most of
redundant teachers preferred to receive additional cash payments, though only teachers
older than 50 years were allowed to receive cash payments. As a result, fewer teachers
preferred other types of social assistance: location grants, trainings, consultancy to start
small business, and psychological counseling. About 30 percent of redundant teachers
were of retirement age but no social assistance was envisaged for that group of redundant
teachers. About 87 percent of redundant teachers were women, who looked for new jobs.

Training of schools principals and board members in school financial-economic
issues, management and leadership started under the Education Management and
Financing Project (Credit number IDA-30070) and continued under EQRP. From 2003 to
2005 approximately 820 school principals and 2,700 board members were trained. The
new cycle of training for school principals with the aim to familiarizing school principals
with on-going reforms started in 2005. For that purpose new modules were developed in
accordance with the main directions of reforms including the following topics: NCF, new
subject standards and syllabi; new assessment principles; and new student-centered
teaching methods and introduction of ICT. As the result of the training program, about
900 school principals became fully aware of new curriculum, assessment system and
ICT, thus leading them to support reforms and improve their leadership and management
skills.

The "Strategic Program of Preschool Education Reforms for 2008-2015 and Pilot
Project" was developed between June and December 2007. The Program placed a
special emphasis on the issues of preparing preschool children for the primary school,
ensuring equal opportunities for everybody, and increasing the number of children
enrolled in preschool education, especially those from vulnerable families. The Program
aimed to achieve overall preschool education for 5-6 years old children, and gradually
increase the enrollment reaching 90 percent by 2015.
The pilot stage of the Strategic Program was carried out in 22 institutions of Shirak
Marz - Akhuryan region and Lori Marz - Spitak region. The main criteria for choosing
Akhuryan and Spitak regions were almost full absence of pre-school institutions there
and very low enrollment rate. The cost of the pilot projects was covered by three sources:

                                            32
grants from Credit funds (about 60 percent of the total cost) and communities and
parental investments (about 40% of the project cost). Credit funds were mainly targeted
to repairing the preschool classrooms, refurbishing works, acquisition of equipment, and
teaching and learning materials. As a result, a favorable environment for small children
was established in all institutions. Other recurrent expenses (teachers' salaries, recurrent
goods, electricity, fuel, heating, water/sewage, communication services, nutrition, etc.)
were covered through the community and parental contributions. The latter was made
both in a form of monetary (from the community budget, parents, community members,
etc.) and in-kind contributions. It should be mentioned that 538 children directly
benefitted from the 22 micro-projects: 310 ­ from Akhuryan region, 228 ­ from Spitak
region. About 53 percent of those children were from vulnerable families.
The core goal of reforms in the general education system is transition to the 12-year
school system, which was launched in 2006 and is expected to finish in 2012. Since the
2009/2010 school year the establishment of the high school network was launched.
Establishment of the separate high school network on the 3rd level of general education
aimed to raise the education quality and effectiveness in high schools. The pilot project
for high schools and neighboring schools, included 10 high schools, and sought to
establish modern resources centers in these schools. These schools benefitted from
minor rehabilitations, equipment and furniture for establishing modern libraries from the
credit funds.

An Education Management Information System (EMIS) was established under the
Education Financing and Management Project under the responsibility of MoES. EMIS
provides operative collection, development and analysis of the general statistical data on
the education system both on the level of marzes and country. The EMIS was transferred
under the NACET operation in May 2008.

Although the actual cost of the Component 4 was 86 percent of estimated cost, all
originally planned activities were implemented. The savings have resulted from the lower
costs of the Teacher Redundancy Program as a result of smaller than expected number of
redundant teachers applying for social assistance.

Component 5: Project Management Support (actual cost US$ 2.10 million equivalent,
150 percent of appraisal estimate)

The fifth component financed the necessary assistance for project coordination, financial
management, procurement, monitoring and reporting. It supported the investment and
operating costs associated with the project management unit, Center for Education
Projects (CEP). This component cost 50% more than appraisal estimate because the
project was extended for one year and new activities were added at the restructuring.




                                            33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable.




                                    34
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
             Names                          Title           Unit
                                                                      Specialty

Lending
Toby Linden                    Task Team Leader            ECSHD
Virginia Jackson               Senior Operations Officer   ECSHD
Kari Hurt                      Operations Officer          ECSHD
Pasi Sahlberg                  Senior Education Specialist ECSHD
Susanna Hayrapetyan            Operations Officer          ECSHD
Arvo Kuddo                     Senior Labor Economist      ECSHD
Alexander Astvatsatryan        Procurement Officer         ECSPS
Nightingale Rukuba-Ngaiza      Senior Counsel              LEGEC
Andrina Ambrose                Senior Finance Officer      LOAG 1
                               Financial Management
Ekaterina Arsenyeva                                        ECSPS
                               Specialist
Anna Goodman                   Program Assistant           ECSHD

Supervision/ICR
Juan Manuel Moreno Olmedilla   Task Team Leader            ECSHD
 Alexander Astvatsatryan       Procurement Officer         ECSC2
 Yelena Fadyeyeva              Senior Operations Officer   ECACA
 Susanna Hayrapetyan           Sr. Health Spec.            ECSH1
 Aleksan Hovhannisyan          Consultant                  ECSHD
 Sachiko Kataoka               Education Economist         ECSH2
 Arvo Kuddo                    Senior Labor Economist      ECSH4
 Nicole L. La Borde            Office Manager              MNSHD
 Carmen F. Laurente            Senior Program Assistant    ECSHD
 Zorica Lesic                  ICR Team Leader             ECSHD
 Nvard Manasian                Consultant                  ECSHD
                               Senior Procurement
Karina Mostipan                                            ECSC2
                               Specialist
Satik S. Nairian               Program Assistant           ECCAR
Pasi J. E. Sahlberg            Sr Education Spec.          ECSHD
                               Sr Financial Management
Arman Vatyan                                               ECSC3
                               Specialist
                               Senior Procurement
Anna L Wielogorska                                         ECSC2
                               Specialist




                                       35
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       8                        77.29
  FY03                                      40                       170.23
  FY04                                      51                       157.46
  FY05                                                                 0.05
                          Total:            99                       405.03

Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                    64                         116.53
  FY06                                    87                         157.06
  FY07                                    78                         165.91
  FY08                                    57                         116.36
  FY09                                    22                         124.38
 FY10                                     13                          50.23
                          Total:         321                         730.47




                                       36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                   38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Progress in achieving Project Development Objectives and in outputs was significant. A
short summary of these achievements is given below.

A National Curriculum Framework, subject standards and syllabuses with aligned new
textbooks and teacher guides for 12-year school have been developed, produced and
provided to every school in the country. The new NCF and syllabuses have been
gradually (grade by grade) introduced in schools since September 2006. By Project end
the shift to 12-year school was almost completed.

A national Assessment and Testing Center (ATC) has been established and is currently
fully performing its functions - its major task to implement fully new school
graduation/university entrance examinations for all subjects was completed in summer
2009.

A new system for continuous and formative assessment of the learner was developed
discussed widely and is being implemented currently.

Armenia started to participate in international studies, namely International
Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS). This was a major step enabling country to
provide internationally comparable evidence of students' achievement and use results as
a basis for policy dialogue and a better understanding of the causes of observed
differences in performance of students in Armenia and other countries. In 2002 Armenia
successfully completed the pilot stage (field test) of TIMSS-2003 and got the right to
participate in the main phase. TIMSS 2007 Main Survey took place in May 2007 in 150
secondary schools of Armenia. Results of Armenia in TIMSS-2007 were notable since
the progress made by the country compared to the results of TIMSS-2003 was significant.

The success of Armenia in TIMSS was connected not only with the gained experience
but also with the on-going reforms: introduction of new National Curriculum
Framework, Standards and Syllabi, introduction of new assessment system together
with the test culture as well as teacher training.

A National Center of Educational Technologies (NaCET) was created and operating
successfully. It has taken over coordination of activities on ICT in general education
sector as well as management of the Armenia School Network involving 644 schools, the
School Internet Portal (www.armedu.am) and EMIS.

A unique and innovative Computer Revolving Scheme (CRS) was created and is
currently operating, which ensures provision of computer equipment to schools and
provides a financial mechanism for their partial replacement at the end of useful life.
Majority of schools (78.6%) have received new computers through CRS and started ICT
based teaching and learning.



                                          39
A remarkable amount of funds is collected by schools and paid to the CRS making
sustainability of the computer provision to schools certain. During five years of its
operation the CRS has achieved a significant return rate (95.84% of the target amount),
which are even more valuable when bad social conditions of communities is taken into
account.

Valuable electronic resources in Armenian language were created and provided to school
children.

An extensive teacher training program has been designed and carried on touching all
`quality areas'. The following five types of training were provided to teachers:

        Provision of basic information and knowledge on New Curriculum Framework
        (NCF), subject syllabi, standards;
        Teacher training on Formative Assessment;
        Teacher training in cooperative learning methods;
        Provision of training to teachers on basic computer literacy and use of ICT in
        teaching/learning process; and
        Small Group Teaching and Learning in Mathematics.

Eventually each and every teacher in the country has received training. Many of them
participated in several cycles of trainings. Key focus in all trainings provided to teachers
was the use of new teaching and training methods. Progressively the rationale and
technique of cooperative, interactive methods is introduced into the training plans of all
teacher training programs. The teacher-centered approaches are gradually being enriched
with learner-centered ones. Even more, the lecturing, transmission-reception teaching
style is being receded, paving the way for learner friendly interaction, discussion and
group work. One of the most effective esteem building tools called "reflection" is
developing which is linked with the rationale of the new three level standards introduced
in curriculum. It is working as an effective technique for building up not only the
knowledge of the learners, but also their skills and capabilities, which is the new
requirement of the curriculum.

A network of 52 school-centers was created. School-centers became the institutional
structure for conducting teacher trainings, piloting innovation and disseminating them.
NIE with its regional braches became part of the institutional structure for conducting
teacher trainings.

School principals and board members were trained to improve their capacity in financing
management and of the school.

High school and pre-school reforms were piloted in limited number of institutions.
Modern resource centers/libraries were established in newly created high schools giving
student access to a wide range of new printed and electronic resources.




                                            40
By project completion a number of project inputs reached the stage where the
Government was able to see a measurable impact on quality. However, those inputs have
not yet reached the stage where the Government can observe the desirable change of
quality. Curriculum and assessment reforms will, by their nature, be slow to work their
way up the system. A massive and innovative teacher training program has been
implemented, many teachers have been trained. But the process of an existent change in
the teaching practices will require more time and efforts. Some of the reforms, such as
pre-school and high school have been successfully piloted, but will also entail further
efforts and much more time to see their impact.

The second Education Quality and Relevance Project will continue investing into quality
changes and MoES will be monitoring its progress towards improved quality by which it
is meant:

  Improved attitudes towards learning and educational achievement in the classrooms.
  Improved levels of learner achievement in traditional areas of education.
  Acquisition of new, relevant competencies (knowledge, skills and values) by learners
   comparable to those of OECD countries.

The Government is confident that huge efforts are leading to the planned outcomes, thus
the system is traveling in the right direction.

The detailed description of the achievements and outputs by components is given in the
Annex 2 of this ICR.

Comments to the DRAFT ICR provided by the Center for Education Projects (April
27, 2010)

The general comments to the draft ICR are the following:

1. Paragraph 2.3 of the ICR
Design, implementation and utilization of Monitoring and Evaluation system for the
Project is not assessed fully, thus the respective rating is lowered. In particular, 10
independent studies were carried on during the whole period of the Project to assess the
results and outcomes of the Project. A baseline study was conducted at the beginning of
the Project to assess the situation before the start of the Project and a final Project Impact
Assessment Study was carried on, which allowed making a comparative analysis of the
Project outcomes (by all components) with the pre-project situation. In between baseline
and final study 8 independent targeted studies were carried on Project different
components, which have: (i) assessed the effect of ICT component, in particular the level
of use of ICT in the schools and impact of ICT on the student interest and learning; (ii)
assessed the impact of the new national curriculum, subject syllabi and standards; (iii)
included independent monitoring and evaluation of the high school pilot project; (iv)
included independent monitoring and evaluation of the pre-school pilot projects; (iv)
studied results of the teacher training process and effect of the influence of the teacher
training on the teacher behavior in the classroom; (v) studied links of the high school


                                             41
reform with the higher education; (v) assessed of the current state of school libraries; (vi)
studied the employment opportunities of redundant teachers in the labor market, etc.

Besides, Armenia participated in international studies, namely TIMSS 2003 and TIMSS
2007 which provided an opportunity to monitor the progress in student achievements in
the result of curriculum reform and teacher training.

It should also be noted that every teacher training course has a built in monitoring and
evaluation system which included:
    - Initial testing of the participants
    - Final testing of the participants
    - Assessment of the participants satisfaction with the seminars through specifically
      developed questionnaires
    - Site visits, observations of the seminars, information collection
    - Analyzing collecting information and feedback
    - Putting in place an accountability scheme through reports.

In general the Project monitoring and evaluation system, as well as studies revealed
major changes in schools factored by the reforms implemented through the Project.
Suggestion is to increase the rating for M&E.

2. Paragraph 3.2 of the ICR
 The achievement of PDO is significant. The single outcome indicator was over achieved,
8 of 11 intermediate indicators were also over achieved and 3 fully achieved. This fact
is highlighted in many places in the ICR. We believe that at least by this criterion
(achievement of PDO) the project rating should be increased.

As to the statement that "no impact evaluation was carried on thus it is difficult to
confirm how much overall classroom practices have changed and ..." the major comment
here is that the changes in quality and content aspects of in schools have started only in
2006-2007 academic year and at the Project closing in 2009 it was too early to observe
dramatic changes, although the evidence of the on-going changes was received from the
studies (as mentioned above). The reforms were planned to move the school system
through evolutionary changes and not revolutionary ones. Curriculum and assessment
reforms, as well as change in the teaching practices, by their nature, are slow to work
their way up the system and require more time and efforts.




                                             42
Ð²Ú²êî²ÜÆ Ð²Üð²äºîàôÂÚ²Ü                                                                    
                                                                                           
ÎðÂàôÂÚ²Ü ºì ¶ÆîàôÂÚ²Ü                                                                     
                                                                                            
Ü²Ê²ð²ðàôÂÚàôÜ                                                                                       

                                                                                           REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
                                                                                          MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                                                                                               AND SCIENCE
Ü²Ê²ð²ð                                                                                         MINISTER


        0010, ºñ¨³Ý, ¶ÉË³íáñ åáÕáï³, Ï³é³í³ñ³Ï³Ý ïáõÝ 3, Ð»é././Tel.: 52 66 02, ý³ùë//fax (374 10) 52 73 43,
        0010, â,  ,   3, 0010, Main Avenue, Government House 3, Yerevan, E-mail:
        minister@edu.am, www.edu.am




        Mr. Aristomene Varoudakis
        Country Manager for Armenia
        The WB Office, Yerevan


        Dear Mr. Varoudakis


               RE: Armenia-Education Quality and Relevance Project (Credit IDA-38490)
                             Draft Implementation Completion Reports

        The Ministry of Education and Science (MoES) has received draft Implementation
        Completion Report (ICR) for Education Quality and Relevance Project (Credit IDA-
        38490) dated April 12, 2010. The draft ICR was completed by MoES in cooperation
        with the Center for Education Projects and together with comments sent to the
        World Bank Education Team on April 27, 2010.

        The MoES has received the copy of revised version of draft Report (dated May 10,
        2010) sent to the Ministry of Finance. We would like to thank the World Bank for
        incorporating into the Annex 7 of the Report the MoES comments. However, there
        were also comments made in the main text of the Report, which were not
        incorporated in the revised version of ICR.

        We would appreciate very much if the World Bank considers once again the
        suggested changes, in particular the MoES suggestion to increase the Project rating for


                                                              43
the following 2 criteria - Achievement of Development Project Objectives (DPO) and
Project Monitoring and Evaluation.

Thank you in advance for your kind consideration.

                                 Yours sincerely,




                                Armen Ashotyan
                        Minister of Education and Science
                              Republic of Armenia




                                        44
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    45
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Country Assistance Strategy ­ Report No. 22111-AM
   Country Assistance Strategy ­ Report No. 28991-AM
   Project Appraisal Document ­ Report No. 26266- AM
   Project Appraisal Document ­ Report No. 47225- AM
   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, Government of Armenia, 2003
   National Curriculum Framework, Government of Armenia, 2004.
   Peer Review Comments
   Implementation Status Reports
   Aide Memoires following World Bank missions
   Mid-Term report, PIU, Government of Armenia
   Education Quality and Relevance Project, Completion Report, Center for Education
   Projects
   The Government of Armenia, 2008, Program for Sustainable Development (revised
   version of PRSP-2).




                                         46
                         43°E                                                                             To T'bilisi                To T'bilisi                                                                                          46°E                                                   47°E
                                                        GEOR GI A                             44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 G E OR GI A
                                                                      To Borjomi

                                                                                   L e s s Tashir
                                                                                            er C       Alaverdi                                                                                   To Gäncä
                                                                                                    auc                                                                                                                         Ku
                                                                                                        asu                                                                                                                          ra                                                Mingechevir
                 41°N                                                                       Stepanavan          s M                                                                                                  To Gäncä                                                          Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           41°N
                                                                                                                    ou
                                                                                                  LORRI                nt
                                                                             SHIRAK                                       ai                                                       Ijevan
                                                                                                                             n                                          s
                                                                                       Gyumri                           Vanadzor                                            T AV U S H
                                                                       To
                                                                      Kars                                                                                   Dilijan


                                                                                                Artik                                                                                                    Artsvashen
                                                                                                                                                                                      Karmir
                                                                                                        Aragats                                         Sevan                                                 To
                                                                      pa                                                                                                                                     Gäncä
                                                                 Ar                                     (4090 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ARMENIA
                                                                                                                                                   Hrazdan
                                                                                         A R A G AT S O T N




                                                                                                                            Hraz d a n

                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                          KO
                                                                                                                                                                       Gavar               Lake
                                                                                                        Ashtarak
                                 T UR KEY                                                                                                                                                 Sevan




                                                                                                                                               TA
                                                                                                                                               T
                                                                                                                                                                             GEGHARK'UNIK'




                                                                                                                                                   YK
                                                                                                                              YEREVAN                                                                         Vardenis




                                                                                                                                                    '
                                             Aras
                                                                               A R M AV I R                             YEREVAN
                                                                                   Armavir                                                                                                   Martuni
                                                                                                                                                                                                            nge
                                                                                                                                                                                               ni      s Ra                                                                                                40°N
                 40°N
                                                                                                                                                                                      r     de
                                                                                                                            Artashat
                                                                                                                                                                                   Va
                                                                                                                                              A R A R AT
                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                  VAY O T S '
                                                                                                                            Ar



                                                                                                                                               Ararat
                                                                                                                            as


                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                        Jermuk
                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                    DZOR
                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                     Yegegnadzor
                        43°E                                                                  44°E
                                                                                                                                                                                     Arpa                                                                        AZ E RB AIJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Vaik
                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                              Naxçivan                                                                    Angekhakot

                                 ARM E NI A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Goris       Qubadli




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o tan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Naxçivan
                                                                                                                                                                    A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                       ra




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                         Qubadli
                                                                                                                                                                         s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) CAPITALS                                                                                                                       A ZERBA IJA N                                              SYUNIK'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ez
                                                                                                          I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                     Kapan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ur
                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                       RIVERS                                                                   O F IRA N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        0   10                20    30        40          50 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 e
                                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           39°N
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33364
                                       PROVINCE (MARZ) BOUNDARIES                                                       0                10             20              30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To Füzili
                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                         Megri

                                                                                                                                                                   45°E                                                                   To Ordubad                                                    47°E
