                                                                                                        42133


            ARMENIA EDUCATION QUALITY AND RELEVANCE PROJECT
                                       PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET


    Date: November 21,2007                                Task Team Leader: Juan Manuel Moreno
    Country: Armenia                                      Sector Managermirector: MamtaMurthi
    ProjectName: EducationQuality and                     Country Director: DonnaDowsett-Coirolo
    Relevance                                             Environmental category:Not required
    Project ID: PO74503




    Current closing date: 11/30/2008
                       date [ifapplicable]: proposedto extenduntil 11/30/2005
    Indicate ifthe restructuringis:

    Board approved           -
    RVP approved                       -m
    Doesthe restructuredproject require any exceptionsto Bank policies?                      -Yes ElNo
    Have these been approved by Bank management?                                             -Yes -No
    I s approval for any policy exceptionsought from the Board?                              -Yes ElNo

    Revisedproject developmentobjective/outcomes [Ifapplicable]
       - Project Developmentobjectivesand outcometargets remainunchangedunder the
         restructuredproject.

    Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguardpolicies? Ifso, click here to
    indicate which one(s) [selection box like the one in the new ISR] NO

                                     RevisedFinancing Plan (US$m.)
                         Source                                Local            Foreign             Total
    Borrower                                                   3.1*                0.0              3.1*
    IBRD/IDA                                                     7.5               11.5             19.0
    Others                                                       0.0               0.0               0.0
    Total                                                        8.7               11.5             22.1

* - TotalBorrower co-financing o f the Project has increased due to bigger allocation to Assessment and Testing
Center from the State Budget.




                                                         1


            ARMENIA EDUCATION QUALITY AND RELEVANCE PROJECT
                                       PROJECT PAPER


1. Introductorystatement

This Project Paper seeks the approval ofthe Regional Vice Presidentto introduce changes in the
Armenia, Education Quality and Relevance Project (EQRP), Credit No. 3849-AM, Project ID
PO74503 and the related amendments to the project's Development Credit Agreement. The
major proposed changes include: (i)changes in the project description to reflect proposed new
activities under the project; (ii)reallocation of Credit proceeds to accommodate the proposed
changes; (iii)a new disbursement category entitled "Grants to Other Educational Institutions";
and (iv) extension of the Credit closing date by 12 months to November 30, 2009. The changes
being proposed have been requested by the Government of Armenia because the project has
accrued savings, totaling US$1.5 million (7.8 percent of the total credit amount of US$19
million) which the Government would like to use for additional activities which will fbrther
enhance the achievementof the Projectdevelopmentobjectives.

2. Backgroundand Reasons for Restructuring

The Project was approved by the Board on January 20, 2004 and became effective on July 23,
2004. The Project Development Objective is to improve the quality and relevance of the
Armenian school system to meet the challengesof the knowledge society.

The Project hasthe following five components:

    Component I:A new NationalCurriculum and Student Assessment Systemto provide a more
    relevant and inclusive general education curriculum and a reliable tool to evaluate the
    Armenian education system's performance and to measure the knowledge and competencies
    ofArmenian youth for the new economy.

    Component 11: Education Technologies and Computer Revolving Fund (CRF). This
    component is supporting the integration of ICTs into the education process as a new teaching
    and learning environment. The CRF i s ensuring that schools have facilities and capacity to
    integrate a variety of educational technologies as part of teaching and learning; build the
   necessary infrastructure for the integration of ICT into general education; and help teachers
   and students to apply modern teaching and learning methods using ICT and related
    instructional materials.

   Component 111: Teachers' ProfessionalDevelopment: The main goal of this component i s to
   enhance the quality of teaching and learning in schools by improving the pedagogical
   knowledge and skills ofteachers and modernizing teaching practices through development of
   participatory approaches of teaching and learning. The introduction of school-based
   professionaldevelopment of teachers, engaging advancedteachers in project implementation
   activities, increasing cooperationand experience sharing among teachers and schools are the
   key interventions to achievethose goals.


                                                2

   Component IV: System Managementand Efficiency. This component supportsthe MoES in
   deepeningthe ongoing reforms for improving the management efficiency ofthe general
   education system.

   Component V: ProjectManagement Support Componentprovidesthe MoES with necessary
   assistance for project coordination and implementation; financial management, procurement,
   monitoring and reporting.

The project has made significant progress towards the achievement of its development
objectives. Fifty eight percent of total funds have been disbursed and an additional US$1.58
million is committed. New syllabi and subject standards for revised subjects in basic and
secondary education have been completed. The massive teacher training and professional
development effort financed by the Project is having a major impact on classroom teaching
behaviors and on student learning processes. In addition to this major accomplishment, the new
unified entrance examination took place on June 1, 2007 under conditions of transparency and
security. Finally, the Computer Revolving Fund has successfully completed three rounds of
computer provision to schools and the transfer of the School Connectivity Network to the newly
established National Center o f Education Technologies has already taken place.               Given
achievements made under the project, the project is rated as Satisfactory and monitoring and
evaluation arrangements have significantly improved. The status ofthe outcome indicators, as of
April 2007, is as follows:

           The number of teachers engaged in activities likely to develop the necessary
           knowledge and competencies in their students is estimated at 48 percent (70 percent
           i s the end of project target);
           Subject standards, syllabi and aligned learning materials for Armenian language,
           Mathematics, Informatics, Natural and Social Sciences have been developed and
           deliveredto schools and subject teachers; target fully achieved.
           Sixty (60) percent of teachers have received training on the new curriculum and
           assessment system; 80 percent of trained teachers understandand accept the rationale
           for the curriculumand assessment (95 percent is the end ofproject target);
           Formative and continuous assessment sample test items for Armenian language,
           Literature, Mathematics have been developed and piloted in schools; target fully
           achieved.
           Based on the results of two pilots conducted indifferent regions of Armenia, the final
           package o f exam procedures and test items was approved. It was used during the
           administration of the first unifiedexamination which took placeon June 1,2007;
           58.6 percent of schools have School learning centers (SLC) operating (70 percent is
           the endofproject target);
           15.2 percent of teachers are ICT literate (30 percent is the end ofproject target); and
           Seventy five (75) percent of schools that received SLC hardware from the Computer
           Revolving Fund and have made payments to the CRF on time (90 percent is the end
           of project target).




                                                 3

After nearly three years of implementation, the project has achieved substantial savings under
Components 2 and 4. The savings have resulted from: (i)the lower unit prices of computer
equipmentfor the schools procuredand deliveredthroughthe RevolvingFund; (ii)lower costs of
the Teacher Redundancy Program as a result of smaller than expected number of redundant
teachers applying for social assistance; and (iii)savings gained under the Project Preparation
Facility.  In a letter dated, April 23, 2007, the Government has requested that the savings be
used to finance additional activities and to extend the project closing date for a year in order to
be able to completethe implementation ofthe proposednew activities.

3. Proposed Changes

The set goal and objectives of the restructured project would remain the same, as would its
outcome indicators. The overall Project design would be maintained, Le., five components will
remainunchanged, as describedabove. The proposednew project activities include:

   0   under Component 1: Strengthening institutional capacities of project implementation
       agencies (National Institute of Education, Assessment and Testing Center, and National
       Center for Education Technology). The Project will support additional capacity
       development of NIE and NACET staff to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the
       ongoing reforms. In all cases, terms of reference for national and international technical
       assistance have been agreed with the MES and the search for the consultants started
       months ago. An estimatedcost ofthis additional activity is US$160,000.

   0   under Component3: Increasingthe training and knowledge-sharingcapacitiesof the 52
        School Centers created under the project. The number of teachers to be trained in the
       new curriculum, assessment and teaching methods will be increased by about 8,000
       Foreign Language teachers (which will hrther the achievement of the end of project
       target value in terms of teacher training). The proposal to include the training of these
       teachers is a result of the recent introduction of foreign language as a new subject in the
       early grades o f primary education. The envisaged training for all subject teachers in the
       new national curriculum will then be completed in the framework of APL 1. Thus, the
       project output indicator for Component 3 will be fully achieved (to have 95% of trained
       teachers understand and accept the rationale for the curriculum and assessment reform).
       An estimated cost for this activity is US$1.1 million.

   0   under Component 4: Piloting of consolidation plans for upper secondary schools, as a
       result of the recently introduced 12-year education structure. The Project will support the
       planned Government reforms in upper secondary schools through the design and
       development of a new curriculum and its implementation in a consolidated network of
       high schools. These schools will be also rehrbished through the Project, teachers will be
       trained and additional learning and teaching materials will be provided to those schools
       for the creation o f modern libraries. The Ministry has now completed the Upper
       Secondary school Consolidation Concept note and has developed draft maps for the
       consolidated upper secondary school network in each marz. The present proposal is to
       bring down the number of schools offering the new upper secondary curriculum from the
       current 1100to between 300 and 350 schools. The proposedpilot would be implemented

                                                 4

        in 10 consolidatedupper secondary schools during 2008-2009. An estimatedcost ofthis
       additional activity is US$460,000.

        under Component 4: Piloting alternative models for national pre-school education
        strategy with a view to increase overall enrollment and improve school readiness of 5-6
       years old for primary school. The newly introduced 12-year education curriculum calls
        for better student readiness before primary school. The proposal is to pilot alternative
       models for pre-school education in the framework of the national strategy in this field,
        including the "MoES pre-school education reform strategy project for 2007-2015", "Pre-
        school Education Standards" and "Pilot Project for the Introduction of the Pre-school
       Education Strategy Project for 2007-2015." Under this project, 5-6 pilot pre-school
       education projects would be implemented in two marzes. The Ministry is planning to
       create 10-12 new pre-school education institutions as a result of this first round of pilots.
       An estimated cost of this activity is US$91,000. A separate operations manual to carry
       out this pilot has been prepared and approved by the Bank. The manual was officially
       adopted by the Minister of Education, through a Decree No. 935-A/Q,dated October 18,
       2007.

Complementarychanges proposedinclude the following:

       A new expenditure category entitled: "Grants to Other Educational Institutions" with an
       allocation of SDR125,OOO. This category would be used to finance the piloting of
       alternative models for the national pre-schooleducation.

   0   Reallocations between expenditure categories to accommodate the proposed changes.
       The reallocations are also due to savings made under the project as well as SDWUS$
       exchange rate variations. The majority of reallocated funds would be directed to the
       training o f foreign language teachers, and to providing consultancy services. The new
       expenditure category allocations in the DCA are presented in the draft Amendment
       Letter.

       The proiect closing date would be extended by one Year to November 30, 2009 because
       the implementation ofthe new activities under the restructuredproject requiresmore time
       than it was envisaged by the project initially. Specifically, the extension of the Closing
       Date would allow the Government to conduct the planned pilots for at least one full
       academic year.

Given that the proposed activities are fully in line with the initial project development objectives
and do not affect key associated outcome targets, the proposedchange are part of a Second Order
restructuring, according to the BP 13.05. Credit funds would flow as previously from a Special
Account through the Treasury system. The existing procurement procedures would apply for all
new activities.

The project team has reviewed and supports the Government's request to carry out the proposed
changes, These changes will further enhance the achievement of the development objectives of
the project. The support is also based on the recognition of the ongoing efforts and the

                                                  5

demonstratedcommitment with which the project has been implementedover the years, as well
as the importance of completing all the planned activities. The project team accepts that the
project outcomes would be enhanced fully through restructuring and reallocation of the saved
funds.

4. Analysis

The ongoing reforms in general education in Armenia need to be sustained, and in some cases,
second-generation refinements are called for.      Current reforms in curriculum, assessment,
teacher professional development and the introduction of ICT, all require a long-term effort for
them to yield the expected outcomes. These reforms are now being expanded to include Upper
Secondary Education and Early Childhood Education. Inthe former, a reform has been planned
to entail the introduction of the 12th grade and the consolidation of high schools, which is to be
piloted under the restructured project. As for Early Childhood Education, a national strategy
paper to increaseaccess and improve quality of preschoolsin the country has been approved and
new approaches to preschool institutions needto be piloted.

The proposed changes do not have a major effect on the original economic, technical,
institutional and social aspects of the project. As for the financial aspects, the introduction of
reforms in upper secondary and pre-schooleducationwill not have fiscal implications during the
project implementation period. However, there will be important fiscal implications for the
Government o f Armenia beyondthe completion of the project. Increased enrollment of children
in pre-school as a result of the scaling-up of the pre-school education reform will entail
additional costs to the State Budget. Similarly, a consolidated high school network providing
high quality upper secondary education will require additional investments and budgetary
expenditures. Some ofthese costs could be funded under the second phase of the ongoing APL.

The proposed changes do not affect the environmental category of the project or trigger new
safeguardpolicies. The restructuring does not involve any exceptionsto Bankpolicies.

5. ExpectedOutcomes

The proposed changes do not imply changes in the project development objectives or in the
expected outcomes of the project. The proposed additional institutional capacity strengthening
of the main implementing agencies fully supports the original project objectives under
Component 4.       Likewise, the additional number of trained teachers (about 8,000 foreign
language teachers) will contribute to the overall achievement of the end of project target value
with regard to teacher training under Component 3, as explained above. With respectto the two
proposedpilot activities, there would be three new project output indicators, as follows:

        0   The pilot for the consolidation of upper secondary schools is carried out successfully
            andthe Governmentobtainsrelevant evidencefor future decision-making inthis area.
        0   "The Strategy for Pre-SchoolEducation and early childhood development inArmenia
            for 2007-2012" is agreed with the Bank and approvedby the Government; and,
        0   5-6 pilot pre-schooleducationprojects are implementedsuccessfully intwo marzes.



                                                6

6. Benefitsand Risks

There are no significant risks that could jeopardize the achievement of the restructured project
objectives.

The benefitsofthe restructuredproject would be:
       0   Credit proceeds ofthe currentproject will be used completely and efficiently;
       0   Sufficient ground will be created to include pre-school and upper secondary school
           into the overall program of general educationreforms; and
       0   Reforms being implementedwill become more comprehensive since they will include
           also pre-school and upper secondaryeducation.




                                                7

