Document of
The World Bank                  FILE cOpr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2788-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE
NATIONAL BANK FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT (BTM)
August 20, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                       January 1980
Unit           n    Malagasy Franc (FMG)               Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00       =    FMG 212.72                          FMG 201.91
FMG 1,000     -    US$4.70                             US$4.95
FMG 1,000,000 =    US$4,701                            US$4,952
(The cost estimates are based on US$1 - FMG 210)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BFV                Commercial Bank (Banky Fampandrosoana Ny)
BNM                National Development Bank for Madagascar (Banque Nationale
Malgache de developpement)
BNI                Industrial Development Bank (Bankin' Ny Indostria)
BTM                National Bank for Rural Development (Bankin' Ny Tantsaha
Mpamokatra)
CFDT               Former Malagasy/French Cotton Company
FMR                Rural Credit Program (Financement du Monde Rural)
HASYMA             Cotton Company, responsible for production, marketing,
and processing
MDRRA              Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere du Developpement Rural et de la Reforme Agraire)
OCP                Coffee and Pepper Organization (Operation Cafe Poivre)
SINPA              Societe d'Interet National des Produits Agricoles
SIRAMA             Madagascar's largest sugar company
Fokonolona Institutions:
Fokonolona and Fokantany =   village level local government
Firaissam-pokantany           second tier local government (former canton)
Fivondranan-pokonolona   =   third tier local government (former sub-prefecture)
Faritany                  =   fourth tier local government (former province)
FISCAL YEAR (Government and BTM)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:         National Bank for Rural Development (BTM)
Amount:              SDR 8.7 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Transfer Terms:      The Government would make the proceeds of the Credit
available to BTM as equity.
Project              (i)  Objective:  The project would support the Govern-
Description:             ment's policy to extend credit for smallholder
agricultural develepment, with BTM as the principal
itntermediary. It would also strengthen BTM's
managerial and financial capability.
(ii)  Main Project Components:
(a)  Loans to smallholders for export crops, such
as coffee, cocoa, pepper, cloves, and vanilla
plantations; for sugar cane plantations; and
for foodcrops (rice, maize, and groundnuts);
(b)  Loans on an experimental basis to farmers and
cooperatives for selected agricultural activi-
ties, e.g., vineyard establishment, steer
stall-fattening, and small-scale pig fattening;
(c)  Training for BTM staff in financial, managerial,
and computer disciplines;
(d)  Creation and operation ot about seven itinerant
banks (consisting of vehicles equipped for the
purpose) to extend BTM's activities in rural
areas;
(e) Feasibility study (3 man-months) for the estab-
lishment of a Data Base Management system for BTM.
(iii)   Benefits:  The project would help to increase pro-
duction of crops, and would allow an increase in net
foreign exchange earnings through increased exports
(coffee, cloves, vanilla, pepper, cocoa, sugar) or
reduced imports (rice). It would also strengthen BTM
as an agricultural development bank.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iv)   Risks:  Critical factors are the provision of ade-
quate extension services, the availability of inputs,
adequate producer prices and marketing services, as
well as BTM's performance as a development bank.
The Project has been designed to offset these risks
to the maximum extent possible.
Estimated Costs:                             Local      Foreign      Total
-------(US$ million)-------
Project Component
(a)  Seasonal Credit                   1.74        1.99        3.73
(b)  Medium Term Credit                3.37        1.79        5.16
(c)  Long Term Credit                  1.40        0.20        1.60
(d)  Experimental Credit               0.32        0.19        0.51
(e)  Staff Training                     -          0.45        0.45
(f)  Itinerant Banks                               0.09        0.09
(g)  Consultant Services                -          0.04        0.04
Total Base Costs                  6.83        4.75       11.58
Price contingencies                     1.57       1.05        2.62
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                5.80       12_ 0
(taxes are insignificant)
Financing Plan:                             Local       Foreign      Total
----------$ million---------
IDA Credit             5.70        5.80       11.50
BTM                    2.70         -          2.70
Total                  8.40        5.80       14.20
Estimated
Disbursement:       IDA                  FY 1981       1982      1983       1984
-----------$ million-----
Annual                  0.5        2.2        4.0        4.8
Cumulative              0.5        2.7        6.7       11.5
Rate of Return:      60 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 2898-MAG
Map:                 IBRD 14922



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (BTM)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equivalent
of US$11.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance credit operations
of the National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) for the period 1980-83.
The Government would make the proceeds of the credit available to BTM as a
contribution to equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A zeport entiLled "'Iada,ascar - Recent Economic Developments and
Future Prospects" was distributeci to the Executive Directors on October 24,
1979. A summary of recent economic developments is set out below. Country
data sheets are provided in Annex 1. An economic updating mission is in
Madagascar from August 15 - September 8, 1980.
3.        With a population of 8.3 million and a GNP per capita estimated at
US$250 in mid-1978, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world.
It is predominantly an agricultural country and 85 percent of its population
live in rural areas with a per capita income of about US$120 per annum. In
many areas the standard of living is at the subsistence level. Although the
country is sparsely populated (an average of 14 inhabitants per square kilo-
meter), there is great pressure on cultivable land in some regions. Owing
mainly to different ecological conditions, the highlands are more advanced
than the coastal areas, and the south is particularly poor with a harsh, arid
climate and infertile soils. The east coast is rich agriculturally, but crops
are frequently devastated by cyclones. Internal migration is common and has
accelerated as improved roads have provided access to new areas. However,
poor roads remain a major constraint to development; many of the main highways
are not passable during the rainy season in a country where production centers
may be as far as 800 kilometers from main points of consumption. Many areas
are virtually cut off from the rest of the country for several months each year.
4.        Over the past few years the growth of the economy has been slow and
uneven. Having risen but marginally in 1975, real GDP fell in 1976 by 2.9
percent owing to a slight decline in agricultural production and a steep drop
of about 14 percent in manufacturing output. GDP is estimated to have
increased by 3.9 percent in 1977; even so, output of goods and services
showed only a slight increase over the period since 1974; and, with population
increasing by about 3 percent annually, per capita GDP fell by about 5 percent.



- 2 -
Bad harvests adversely affected economic growth in 1978; but the reported
resurgence of economic activity the following year is likely to have raised
the real GDP growth rate above the trend average. Budgetary investment
outlays were stepped up considerably after 1975; but the investment rate has
generally varied around 14 percent as the sharp rise in Government capital
expenditures was largely offset by a substantial decline in private investment.
The savings rate also continued to be fairly stable and fluctuated around
10-11 percent. The resource gap as a consequence has been maintained at a low
level.
5.        Agricultural production has not recorded any marked growth over
the last few years. Even over the longer period since 1970 it has increased
at an annual rate of only about 1 percent. Despite periodic good crops, paddy
production did not keep pace with demand; and production in 1978, estimated
at 2.0 million tons, was only about 7 percent higher than in 1970. Groundnut
production, after rising significantly in 1976, fell back to 34,000 tons in
1978, while meat production did not register any significant rise. Imports of
rice and edible oils which were negligible prior to 1972 have increased to
over 150,000 tons and 16,000 tons, respectively in 1978. Sugarcane production
continued to stagnate as there has been no addition to the refinery capacity
for several years. Among other cash and export crops, coffee production,
except for a 6 percent drop in 1976, has been rising steadily, until 1975
reaching some 84,000 tons but has been stagnating since. Raw cotton produc-
tion, which had been increasing fairly fast, levelled off after 1977; vanilla
output declined, while pepper more than doubled. Hit badly by the drought in
1978, agricultural output is nevertheless expected to have risen significantly
last year, although some major export crops, such as vanilla and coffee,
encountered production problems.
6.        The development of the industrial sector after independence in 1960
was encouraged by promotional measures such as fiscal incentives, protection
against competition from imports and provision of institutional term financing.
Industrial production now accounts for about 14 percent of GDP. Despite
significant diversification of capacity that has taken place, manufacturing is
still dominated by food processing, textiles and apparel industries. Together
they account for close to 70 percent of the manufacturing output. Among other
industries the important ones include tobacco manufactures, chemicals (mainly
soap and matches), petroleum refining and production of construction materials.
7.        Industrial growth since 1972 has been erratic.  Following a marked
9.3 percent rise in 1974 the industrial production index declined again in
1975 and 1976; and despite recovering somewhat in 1977 it remained below the
level attained in 1974. Within the manufacturing sector itself, however,
performance varied between different industry groups. While the output of
processed foods and textiles followed a stagnant or a declining trend after
1974, some of the comparatively minor industries, such as chemicals, tobacco
manufactures, rubber and paper products maintained a fairly steady growth.
However, more recently, the industrial sector has reportedly shown signs of
greater dynamism and more rapid expansion.



- 3 -
8.        Over the past few years a number of industrial establishments con-
sidered to be of national importance were taken over by the State. Some
unprofitable enterprises facing closure were also nationalized to prevent
layoff of workers. In some other cases the State assumed majority control.
The important foreign-owned industrial enterprises that were nationalized
include the oil refinery (January 1976), the power and water _1pply company
(January 1976) and two sugar firms (December 1976). At present, the State
owns, or has acquired majority participation in all major industrial units
employing a thousand or more workers.
9.        Madagascar's fiscal situation deteriorated considerably after 1975,
due to a sudden and sharp rise in current budget expenditure and Government
spending on capital investment. Current expenditures rose steeply with the
rising wage bill of the Government and increasing outlay on maintenance; and
the current budget surplus, which used to be substantial, dwindled as revenues
failed to keep pace with the growth of expenditures. Furthermore, as Govern-
ment intensified its efforts to raise investment levels and stimulate the
economy, public investment expenditure rose from 11.2 billion FMG in 1975 to
20.5 billion FMG in 1977. The outlays on the consumer rice subsidy, although
they declined slightly in 1976, rose again to 3.6 billion FMG in the subse-
quent year. The overall Treasury deficit, which more than doubled to 20
billion FMG between 1975 and 1977, was financed increasingly through recourse
to Central Bank advances. In 1978, the overall deficit was larger than the
projected 16.1 billion FMG owing to underestimation of expenditure on per-
sonnel and the settlement of payments deferred from 1977 on the one hand, and
shortfalls in revenues on the other. The fiscal situation is likely to have
worsened considerably in 1979, owing partly to the increasing emphasis on
budgetary expenditure for capital development. The Government is exploring
ways and means of reducing both recurrent and capital expenditures.
10.       Monetary and credit developments since 1975 have been influenced
mainly by the Government's deficit financing needs.  Outstanding domestic
credit went up by more than 50 percent to 126 billion FMG during 1975-77, due,
for the most part, to the steep and continued rise in net claims on Government.
As a result, money supply, which had been increasing moderately, rose by 15
percent in 1976 and as much as 25 percent in 1977.  Despite this monetary
expansion and little growth in the output of goods and services, the annual
inflation rate has been moderate -- about 9-10 percent during 1976-77, largely
because of increasing demand for cash balances and the consequent accumulation
of idle funds. Similar monetary trends have persisted subsequently and infla-
tionary pressures might even have increased.
11.       The balance of payments situation which had been deteriorating
showed a substantial improvement in 1976, when a surplus of 2 billion FMG was
recorded; but the payments surplus in 1977 was estimated to have been much
smaller. The turnaround in the balance of payments situation occurring in
1976 is attributable more to exogenous factors than to any si4nificant im-
provement in the structure of the balance of payments. Trade surpluses were
recorded in 1976 and 1977 as a result of (a) a sharp rise in prices of exports,
particularly coffee, which reversed the continuing deterioration in the terms



- 4 -
of trade, and (b) the imposition of more strict quantitative restrictions on
imports in 1976. There was a substantial decline in the availability of
imports after 1975. On the other hand, the volume of exports dropped sharply
in 1976, and continued to fall in 1977, while there was no lasting reduction
in the services deficit, nor any sustained rise in capital inflows. More
recently the balance of payments position has been increasingly strained by
a number of adverse developments: production shortfalls and transportation
problems affecting some important export crops, food imports needed to
replenish stocks after the drought, international inflation, rising energy
prices and the impact on the demand for imports of high levels of public
investment. The balance of payments is expected to show a very large
overall deficit in 1979.
12.       The growth and development of the Malagasy economy have over a
fairly long period been affected by constraints resulting from shortage of
savings, and low productivity of traditional agriculture. The country,
however, is relatively well-endowed with natural resources and has a well-
established administrative set-up. With appropriate policies and adequate
external capital assistance, medium and long-term prospects for the economy
should be favorable. There is considerable scope for the expansion of agri-
culture and livestock production. Only about a fifth of the arable land is
at present being utilized, and fertilizer consumption, estimated to be some
14,000 tons in 1978, is still rather small. The irrigation potential has as
yet been only partially exploited. The outlook for further development of
manufacturing based on locally available materials is promising. On the
whole, sustained growth at an average annual rate of 4-5 percent appears to
be feasible.
13.       The Government has been taking far-reaching steps to strengthen
national control of the economy. As a part of this process, economic and
financial institutions, productive sectors, foreign trade and internal market-
ing have undergone extensive reorganization. Inspired by the basic needs
approach, the Government has also formulated long-term development objectives
which envisage a more egalitarian income distribution and satisfaction of
specified minimum consumption requirements of the population by the end of
the century. The Government also stresses national self-sufficiency and the
eventual establishment of an industrial base large and diversified enough to
meet the domestic demand for basic equipment and other essential consumer
goods.
14.       A Three-Year Plan, which is to be the first of a series of medium-
term investment programs designed to attain these long-run development objec-
tives, was launched in 1978. The Plan envisages overall expansion of the
economy at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent during 1978-80. The rate of
investment is projected to rise to 17.1 percent of CDP by 1980 from the Plan
estimate of 11.5 percent in 1977. The savings rate is to be stepped up,
partly through the mobilization of additional budgetary resources for capital
development. But about a quarter of the investment outlays during the Plan
period is expected to be financed through external loans and grants. Greater
emphasis will be placed on the development of food crops; and household con-
sumption is targeted to rise, in real terms, by 3.6 percent per year. The
Plan accords high priority to manufacturing, particularly basic industry
and processing of agricultural raw materials.



- 5 -
15.       Madagascar's external public debt, outstanding and disbursed,
amounted to US$258.6 million at the end of 1978. Somewhat over 40 percent
of it (US$111.3 million) was owed to the Bank Group, and as much as 23 per-
cent to IDA alone. The Bank Group share of debt service in 1978 was 36
percent. Among bilateral donors France and the Federal Republic of Germany
are the mos., prominent, each holding about 12 percent of the disbursed debt.
Japan and the People's Republic of China rank next in importance (7 and 4
percent respectively) followed by the USA (2 percent). Suppliers' credits
and commercial borrowing (9.4 percent of the disbursed debt) have been rela-
tively unimportant. The Government had been generally prudent with regard
to external debt, and outstanding disbursed debt at the end of 1977 amounted
to only 11 percent of GNP as compared to the average of 25 percent for low-
income countries. Because of relatively limited reliance on external assist-
ance and concessionary terms of most loans and credits, debt service payments
have remained small. The estimated debt service ratio of 3.1 percent in 1977
was marginally lower than in 1970. However, since 1978 the debt service ratio
has tended to increase rapidly, mainly as a result of increasing foreign
borrowing on commercial terms by the public sector.
16.       The Bank should continue to be prepared to contribute to local cost
financing. In terms of performance, Madagascar appears to have performed
about as well as other countries at the same level of development encounter-
ing similar constraints. Its domestic savings rate, 13 percent in 1977,
compares favorably with the level in most of the countries in the low income
group, indicating that Madagascar has made a reasonable effort to mobilize
domestic savings. But as savings have fallen far short of the country's
requirements, despite resource mobilization efforts and restrictions on
imports, the country's balance of payments and reserve position have
deteriorated.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
17.       Outstanding IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$252.69 million
and Bank loans total US$31.80 million. About 54 percent of Bank Group lending
has been for transport, 14 percent for electric power, 24 percent for agricul-
ture and 8 percent for education. IFC's first investment was made in March
1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000 and a loan of US$11.0 million
for the expansion of a textile mill, and a loan of US$1.25 million for shoe
manufacturing; other projects are under consideration. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of
July 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The priority given to transport investment recognizes that improve-
ment in communications is a precondition for Madagascar's development. Four
projects have been for the construction of all-weather highway links between
the island's different regions; a fifth highway project for road maintenance
was signed on July 30, 1979. There have been projects for improving
Madagascar's main port of Toamasina (Tamatave) and one for modernizing the
railway line between Toamasina and the capital, Antananarivo; a second project



supporting the railways modernization efforts was signed on June 25, 1979.
Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of two livestock development
projects, two irrigation projects and a forestry project. A credit for an
agricultural development project in the Mangoky delta was signed on May 17,
1979. Bank Group involvement in the utility sector includes the financing
by IDA of part of the cost of the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project for
which substantial external assistance was secured by the Government; addi-
tional financing of US$10 million to help cover a doubling in cost of civil
works under the project was approved by the Executive Directors on January 29,
1980. A first credit of US$5.0 million for an industrial development bank
project (BNI) was approved by the Executive Directors on January 29, 1980,
while a US$20.5 credit for a water supply and sanitation project for the city
of Antananarivo was approved on April 1, 1980. A US$12.5 million credit for
a petroleum exploration promotion project was approved on May 6, 1980.
19.       In future lending to Madagascar, we expect agriculture to absorb
a larger share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government strategy to
expand agricultural production as a prerequisite to the development of the
country. In addition to the proposed project, IDA is assisting the Govern-
ment in preparing these rural development projects, an irrigation system
management and rehabilitation project, a third livestock project and a second
forestry project. We will also continue to support Government investment in
such areas as education, urban development, roads, railways and ports. An
audit/accounting project is also being prepared. We expect the Government to
seek cofinancing from external lenders for some of the projects, and we intend
to assist the Government in its efforts to mobilize new external sources of
financing.
20.       In the past, problems have arisen in the course of execution of
several projects. There were delays in execution, cost overruns and deficien-
cies in institution building, especially in agriculture. The Morondava Project
had to be substantially reduced, and the Government has prepared a plan of
action to deal with the remaining problems. The main aspects of this plan
include a redefinition of the implementing agency's (SODEMO) responsibilities
and financial structure, completion and audit of overdue accounts, and prep-
aration of an investment program and budget for development of the Morondava
area. Implementation of the plan of action has started and is being closely
monitored by the Government and the Association. Implementation of the
Village Livestock Project has improved substantially. The Mangoro Forestry
Project is ahead of schedule, and cost estimates are in line with forecasts.
The first three highway projects have been completed, while the fourth project
is still being implemented; the road construction component is nearly completed
and the maintenance studies have been completed. However, under the fifth
highway project there has been a delay in the start of the highway maintenance
training program for personnel in the Ministry of Public Works. Since training
of local staff is essential, Government has agreed that training consultants
will be employed and that construction of training facilities would begin in
the first half of 1980.



21.       Since the start of our program in Madagascar four projects all of
which included technical assistance have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The audit report of December 17, 1976 on
the Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally quite success-
ful. However, the performance of Somalac, the project implementation agency,
has deteriorated considerably since the completion of the project. The audit
report of April 11, 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that
the Project objectives of demonstrating the feasibility of modern commercial
ranching techniques in Madagascar had not been achieved. The report also
concluded that the Project had nevertheless had some positive aspects, namely
with respect to pasture development. The audit report No. 2143 of July 27,
1978 concluded that the Madagascar Third Highway Project was well justified
and had a good rate of return despite the substantial cost overrun experienced
by the project. The audit confirmed that training of local staff and adequate
provisions of Government funds were essential factors for a successful road
maintenance program. Report No. 2299 of December 22, 1978 concluded that the
physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved,
but pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the port
authority and the failure of the technical assistance component.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
22.       About 85 percent of Madagascar's roughly 8.3 million inhabitants
live in the rural areas. Agriculture dominates the economy, contributing
about 40 percent of total GDP, accounting for more than 80 percent of export
earnings, and directly supporting over 80 percent of the population. Mada-
gascar's agricultural sector is striking in its diversity. The rural economy
varies among several sharply different geographic regions, producing a
very wide range of crops and agricultural produce. A variety of production
systems is employed, ranging from large-scale mechanized agriculture to the
simplest, small-scale traditional farming. This diversity has, to some
extent, protected Madagascar against the fluctuations of international
commodity prices and adverse climate (drought and cyclones are ever-present
hazards). It also contributes to wide disparities in wealth and level of
development among geographic regions. In many areas, the standard of living
is close to subsistence level, while in others, the population is relatively
prosperous. Owing mainly to different ecological conditions and social
factors, the central highlands and particularly the area around Antananarivo
are generally more developed and prosperous than the coastal areas, while the
south is particularly poor.
23.       The growth of Madagascar s agricultural production over the past
13 years has been disappointing, with the average rate of increase somewhat
less than the population growth rate of 3 percent a year; from 1970 to 1975,
the annual rate of increase of agricultural production was about 2 percent.
This performance largely reflects the low growth rate of rice production and
the stagnation or even decline of livestock production. The potential for



- 8 -
agricultural development in Madagascar is considerable. Many commodities now
being produced offer excellent scope for expansion, while intensification
of production in virtually all parts of Madagascar could significantly
increase output. Large areas of undeveloped yet fertile land which can be
brought into production are still available In many cases, as a result
of research and trials, the technical base for expansion or intensification
exists already. In other areas, notably rice production, promising high-
yielding new varieties could be introduced based on an effort in applied
research.
Government Objectives
24.       Madagascar's broad objectives for rural development are articulated
in a Three-Year Plan (ref. para 14). Long-term goals for agriculture are:
(a) attainment of self-sufficiency in food and development of basic industries,
largely supplied by the agricultural sector; and (b) decentralization of all
economic activities, through the fokonolona system. Agriculture is to represent
the basis of all developments, and is to receive a major share of in'O'estments.
The Government is expected to assume control of as part of cultivated land,
particularly large farms which have been lying idle for some time, or newly-
developed land for which socialist cooperatives would become responsible.
25.       To this end the Government has undertaken a major reorganization of
local administration and government levels. The so-called "fokonolona" system
reflects an effort to associate traditional institutions and practices with a
more representative and responsive local government, and to provide a vehicle
for decentralization of power as part of Madagascar's socialist revolution.
The reform has been implemented gradually, and many details of the new system,
notably regarding local finance, the role of cooperatives within the fokonolona
system, and the role of fokonolona institutions in the control of industry and
parastatals, are still being considered by the Government. However, the new
entities are assuming important responsibilities, notably for agricultural
credit, for marketing of rice and other agricultural products, and planning
and implementation of small-scale development projects. The hierarchy of
fokonolona institutions comprises the Fokontany, which coincide roughly with
traditional village units (about 11,400 in all), the Firaissam-pokantany, at
the former canton level (about 1,250), the Fivondronan-pokonolona, at the
former sub-prefecture level (about 110), and six Faritany, at the former
province level.
26.       The Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA) is the
central institution for rural development programs. It is concerned with
extension, plant protection, veterinary services, irrigation systems, fisheries
and forestry. It also deals with planning, with overseeing semi-autonomous
regional authorities and parastatals agencies, and with land tenure. In 1979,
a far-reaching reorganization of MDRA was introduced with the principal
objective of providing better support to the fokonolona institutions through
decentralization. The Director of the Provincial Service of the MDRA now has
full authority over the operating services of the MDRA in a given faritany
(province). In addition to the Ministry's basic services and departments,
several regional and parastatal agencies provide extension services to farmers



- 9 -
in parts of Madagascar. These are formally part of the Ministry but tend to
function autonomously. Their integration in the reorganization of the MDRA
services has not yet been fully worked out. About 30 parastatal agencies
operate under the aegis of the Ministry.
Agricultural Credit
27.       Traditionally, formal credit for agricultural development has been
largely restricted to the modern agricultural sector; the well-developed
commercial banking system has provided appropriate credit for large farms and
commercial enterprises. Credit for small farmers, however, has been generally
limited. Farmers have traditionally relied upon private money lenders to
satisfy their credit needs, and while these systems have been quite widely
available, interest rates are generally very high. Government efforts to
provide agricultural credit for smallholder agricultural date from the early
1950's, and from 1963 most programs were focused through the BNM, which lent
both to regional development agencies and to farmer associations. However,
the Government has since 1977 embarked on a major program to increase the
availability of credit to small farmers and local government institutions
which represent them, symbolized by the creation of the National Bank for
Rural Development (BTM) and the rapid expansion of its recent lending for
smallholder agriculture.
28.        BTM was established on December 27, 1976 as a result of the reorgan-
ization of Madagascar's banking system, which lead to the creation of three
specialized, wholly government-owned banks for the principal economic sectors:
the National Bank for Rural Development (BTM), for agriculture, the Industrial
Development Bank (BNI) for industry, and the Commercial Bank. A general
Orientation Council for the Banking and Financial Sector is to be established
to provide general policy guidance for all banking operations. The reorganiza-
tion of the banks is still underway, and the three banks still operate to some
extent in all three sectors; the general institutions called for in the law,
establishing the banks, notably the Orientation Council for the Banking and
Financial Sector, and regional credit committees, are not yet operational.
National credit policies are in principle established by the Central Bank but
it is expected that the Orientation Council for the Banking and Financial
Sector, when it is established, will play an important role in the definition
and monitoring of credit policies.
29.       BTM-s mandate is to promote rural development and to favor the
mobilization of national savings. By law, the share-capital of BTM can be
subscribed by the Government, fokonolona institutions, socialist institutions,
Government institutions and enterprises. BTM's share capital of 2 billion FMG
(US$9.5 million) is owned by the Government (90 percent) and the Central Bank
(10 percent). BTM is managed by a Management Committee nominated by Cabinet
decree and chaired by the Minister for Finance and Planning.
30.       BTM is largely decentralized, reflecting its rural vocation and
its recent expansion into new areas; it is the bank most widely represented
in Madagascar. Apart from its headquarters in Antananarivo and six regional
offices (one in each faritany), BTM has 38 branches, two sub-branches, and 26



- 10 -
field offices. The headquarters and the regional offices assume administra-
tive and control responsibilities, while the branches, sub-branches and field
offices perform operational activities.   As of September 15, 1979, BTM's
staff amounted to about 1,230 officers, including senior managers. About 150
officers were at headquarters, 40 in the group offices, and about 1,030 in
the branches and field offices. Staff increased by 2 percent a year in 1979
and is expected to continue at that rate in the coming years. In general,
the professional competence of BTM staff has been satisfactory for the level
and type of activities it has maintained since it was established.
31.       Field offices are generally well located and equipped and BTM's
management appears to have a sound and pragmatic approach to expansion, having
resisted some recommendations for more rapid growth of physical infrastructure.
Rural branches are modest and accessible to the rural clientele. Transport
means are generally available for field staff, although they are not always
sufficient, in particular in the newer areas of activity where distances are
great, and security is at times a problem. For such cases, the mobile banks
included in the project proposal appear to be a judicious solution. BTM's
present data processing equipment is limited. The computer, which is used to
process all accounts and financial statements has proved too small to handle
the volume of work and BTM has now ordered a new computer to be installed at
headquarters by the end of 1980.
32.       Lending Policies.  Pending the introduction of new Credit Regulations
called for in BTM's statutes, BTM continues to apply many operating procedures
of its predecessors which are in general satisfactory. Agriculture, including
livestock and fisheries, is to be BTM's main area of lending, and BTM can
finance: (a) all seasonal inputs (seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, labor,
small equipment, etc.); (b) all investments leading to an increase in agricul-
tural production (plantations, land improvement, irrigation works, etc.); and
(c) marketing, processing, and conditioning and export of agricultural products.
BTM's borrowers can include Government enterprises or institutions, parastatal
companies, fokonolona institutions, cooperatives, private enterprises or
individuals. There is no minimum income requirement. All credit applications
for general clientele operations are individually analyzed and managed in
accordance with adequate banking standards. Loan applications for private
enterprises and individuals are analyzed by the branches, and BTM branch or
group management carry out random field cross-checks of borrowers. Loan
applications for government enterprises or parastatal companies are processed
at headquarters.
33.       Average maturities on short-term loans are twelve months, but small
seasonal loans can extend to eighteen months. Medium-term loans range from
two to five years, and long-term loans from six to ten years. Repayments for
agricultural loans are generally timed with crop harvests. There is no
ceiling for general clientele loans. However, total loans to a single bor-
rower cannot exceed 10 percent of BTM's outstanding portfolio. In addition,
BTM's total outstanding portfolio is controlled through the ceiling on its
rediscounting facility with the Central Bank (currently 4,600 million FMG).
For agricultural loans, 10 percent borrower's contribution is required for
seasonal and marketing loans and 33 percent for investment loans and bridge



- 11 -
financing.   Smallholder loans, which are presently limited to 200,000 FMG
(US$950) for an individual farmer, are appraised in accordance with specific
criteria for sub-groups of loans by the branches. Tangible guarantees include
mortgages on the borrowers assets (land, buildings, stocks, and equipment).
34.       Interest Rates.  Interest rates and fees are establtshed by the
Central Bank. For general clientele operations, BTM's interest rates on
short-term loans range from 8 to 10 percent a year; in addition a fee of 1
percent a year is charged on current account overdrafts. For small loans,
interest rates calculated pro rata temporis are replaced by a fixed fee. This
fee is applied on the loan principal for the total duration of the loan; as a
result, the actual interest rate to the borrower is higher than the nominal
rate. For small loans for equipment, this fee is set at 1 percent a month.
For the first two years of BTM's operations, the interest rate structure
appears to have been adequate. Madagascar's rate of inflation was main-
tained at 7-8 percent a year, and the cost of BTM's resources has remained
low, about 3 percent of its working assets. However, these interest rates
are low in relation to projected inflation rates of about 12 percent a year
on average for the next three to four years; the entire question of interest
rates is being reviewed and senior officials are aware of the need to raise
interest rates in this inflationary period (see para 60).
Pricing and Marketing
35.       With minor exceptions, the Government fixes official prices for all
agricultural produce. In general these prices do not correspond to the costs
of production and, as a result, substantial quantities are marketed through
unofficial channels (particularly in the case of paddy) and in the absence
of financial incentives, production of major crops such as paddy, coffee or
cotton has been stagnating and declining. The price of rice at the consumer
level is held at an artificially low level and includes an important element
of direct Government subsidy to the consumer. Official export prices for cash
crops are generally well under real export prices and provide substantial
profit margins to the stabilization funds which manage them. Historically
marketing channels were in private hands, operating an intricate network
involving small collectors and foreign-owned trading companies. The latter
have been nationalized. It is Government policy to increase the share of
parastatals in marketing agricultural produce but the present situation is
still characterized by the existence of a complex of local arrangements
between private and parastatal operators. Lack of transport infrastructure,
especially roads, and the generally weak management of the parastatals are
serious constraints on the development of the sector.
Principal Crops
36.       Rice, grown throughout Madagascar on about 50 percent of permanently
cultivated land, is the staple food; per capita rice consumption (over 150 kg
per year) is among the highest in the world. Since 1960, production has
increased on average by less than 3 percent a year; total production appears
to have stagnated since 1976 at around 2 million tons of paddy a year; yields
average 1.8 tons per hectare. Due to a growing deficit in domestic production



- 12 -
and severe marketing problems, imports have increased from a negligible
tonnage in 1970 to over 160,000 tons a year in 1978 and 1979; this represented
about US$56 million or 15 percent of the total value of exports, and more than
40 percent of export earnings from coffee. Rice cultivation is mostly con-
centrated on the central plateau and in the north west. Family rice fields
are generally terraced, located on valley floors, and range in size from a few
acres to 5 ha, the average being about 1 ha and often less in heavily popu-
lated zones. Most farmers produce a single crop per year, relying almost
exclusively on traditional production techniques and water control systems.
37.       From 1973-77, the Societe d'Interet National des Produits Agricoles
(SINPA), a parastatal company, had a monopoly on marketing, collection,
imports, processing and distribution of all agricultural products including
rice. SINPA's marketing operations encountered serious problems, however,
and in 1977 the Government assumed direct overall responsibility for rice
marketing. While SINPA still retains responsibility for the largest area,
recently-nationalized trading firms and other parastatal agencies have been
assigned marketing responsibilities.
38.       The rice marketing system is far from satisfactory; weak manage-
ment, 1/ lack of trucks, bad roads, and poor operation of the port and railway
facilities have made the supply of rice to deficit areas unreliable and
Government and the Army are increasingly involved in basic food marketing and
distribution. The total quantity of paddy marketed through official channels
ranged between 217,000 and 309,000 tons in the years 1970-1978, representing
an estimated 11 percent to 16 percent of total production. The Ministry of
Economy and Commerce officially estimates that about 40 percent of all
marketed paddy now goes through unofficial channels; prices vary widely but
are well above official levels. Numerous paddy mills are scattered throughout
Madagascar, many of which have been nationalized and are operated by SINPA or
other parastatals, while others are still operated by private traders, with
charges fixed by the Government. There is excess capacity in existing mills
for the current volume of marketed production.
39.       The Government fixes paddy and rice prices at the producer and retail
levels as well as margins for marketing, processing and wholesale transactions.
The producer price of paddy is currently FMG 38/kg and the retail price is FMG
55/kg; these prices apply throughout Madagascar, and involve a direct subsidy
to customers of about FMG 25 to 30/kg on locally produced rice. Only FMG
15/kg is reimbursed to marketing agencies from an equalization fund (Fonds de
Perequation) managed by the Ministry of Finance and Planning, which pools
resources from crop specific stabilization funds. The Government is consider-
ing an increase in producer and consumer prices in the near future.
40.       Groundnuts.  Groundnuts are grown throughout Madagascar, generally
on comparatively poor soils. Cultivation methods, on individual plots averag-
ing 0.3 ha, remain mostly traditional and yields are around 1.0 tons/ha.
1/   The value of physical losses of paddy by SINPA at the collection stage
was estimated for 1977 at 1 billion FMG corresponding to 26,000 tons of
paddy.



- 13 -
Production is expected to increase to about 40,000 tons in 1979 after a sharp
decline from an average 45,000 tons from 1972-1977 to 34,000 tons in 1978.
Traditional private marketing circuits have been replaced in recent years by
government-owned marketing companies which face coordination problems. Oil
mills face serious supply problems, and Madagascar is heavily dependent on
imports of f-..s and oils, valued at 2.2 billion FMG in 1978 and 2.3 billion
FMG (US$11 million) in the first six months of 1979. Producer prices for
groundnuts and ex-factory prices for oil are fixed by the Government, cur-
rently at FMG45/kg and FMG 278/kg respectively. With present low yields,
producer prices do not provide an adequate incentive and Government plans for
a sizeable increase in planted areas from 40,000 ha to 64,000 ha and for
self-sufficiency in oil by 1990, will be difficult to achieve.
41.       The cultivated area under roots and tubers, particularly cassava,
has been expanding in response to population growth. Yields, however, con-
tinue to be low, stagnating around 5 tons/ha. Production of cassava reached
1.6 million tons in 1978; with only limited amounts marketed for industrial
uses. Other subsistence crops are sweet potatoes, potatoes, saonjo, maize and
beans. It is estimated that 30 percent of maize production is used for animal
feed. About 6,000 tons of butter beans were exported in 1978 for a total FOB
value of 970 million FMG (US$4.4 million).
42.       Coffee is Madagascar-s foremost export commodity, accounting for
about 36 percent of total export earnings in 1978. There are an estimated
350,000 coffee growers (10 percent of the rural labor force) cultivating
230,000 ha of coffee, and 30 percent of the rural active population is
directly or indirectly involved in coffee production; coffee production has
been stagnating since coffee plots are generally small averaging about 0.5 ha
most plantations are overaged (at least 60 percent of the trees over 20 years
old), and techniques remain largely traditional. Coffee-is mostly grown in
association with pepper, vanilla or cocoa. Use of inputs such as fertilizers
is limited. Average yields now stand around 0.35 tons/ha, and are likely to
decrease on existing plantations unless a strong regeneration effort is made.
43.       With a 20 percent contribution to total export earnings, cloves are
Madagascar-s second most important export crop. Plantations are mostly small
(under 1 ha); total planted area was 45,000 ha in 1978. Production varies
widely from year to year but has shown a general upward trend; in 1978 it
reached 15,000 tons, of which 13,000 tons were exported; 1,000 tons of leaf
distillate were also exported. Prospects for export markets are good in the
short term, due in particular to the steady expansion of the Indonesian
market. However, since the production of existing plantations will probably
reach 20,000 tons by 1985 further expansion of the planted area should be
considered cautiously. Vanilla is grown on the northeast coast, particularly
in Antalaha, by an estimated 70 percent of farmers of that area. Average
growers have about 1,000 plants on 0.50 ha, producing 150 kg of green vanilla
a year. Total production has been following a general downward trend since
1972 and was estimated at about 5,000 tons green vanilla in 1978. World
market prospects are generally viewed as good. Provided long-term credit is
made available for new planting, promising possibilities therefore exist for
redeveloping vanilla production. Although pepper planted areas have been



- 14 -
decreasing in recent years, average yields have increased to over 700 kg/ha.
Total production has also increased, reaching 5,200 tons in 1978, for a
planted area of 7,200 ha. About 5,000 ha are under cocoa and an annual
production is around 2,000 tons; smallholder plantings account for about one
fourth of the total.
44.       Cotton is produced almost exclusively on the west coast, on flood
plains as water recedes, under rainfed conditions, and with full irrigation.
Cotton production increased rapidly during the past decade, from about 9,000
tons in 1967 to 37,000 tons in 1977, but dropped to 33,000 tons in 1978 and
30,000 tons in 1979. Total planted area is presently about 18,000 ha;
yields range from 1.0 ton/ha on dry land to 2.5 ton/ha on irrigated or on
regularly flooded area. Private companies, operating principally in the
northwest, still contribute nearly 50 percent of total cotton production, but
their share is declining. The share of state farms has also diminished to
about 12 percent; smallholders produced 42 percent of cotton in 1977, com-
pared to about 28 percent in 1971. Smallholder cotton has predominated in
the southwest, around Tulear and Ihosy, mainly under rainfed conditions. The
analysis of farm budgets suggests that producer prices are currently too low
to generate reasonable cash incomes under dryland smallholder farming condi-
tions. Indeed, a shift towards more profitable crops (such as tobacco) is
taking place in some regions; moreover, political uncertainties have restrained
investments on large private plantations. The Government objective of substan-
tial increases in cotton planting (7,200 ha in six years) to support the
expansion of the textile industry will be very difficult to achieve unless
additional incentives are provided to farmers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.       The proposed project was prepared by BTM with assistance from RMEA.
The project was appraised in September 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report, No.
2898-MAG, dated July 7, 1980 is being circulated separately. A map IBRD
14922, is attached showing the distribution of BTM activities. Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. from June 9-17, 1980. The Malagasy Delegation
was headed by Mr. Leon Rajaobelina, Governor of the Central Bank of Madagascar,
and BTM was represented inter alia by its Director General, Mr. Henri Jean
Marie. A credit and project summary appears at the beginning of this Report,
and a supplementary project data sheet is given in Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The project would be the first IDA-financed agricultural credit
project in Madagascar, and would support the Government s policy of extending
credit for development in the rural areas, with BTM as the principal inter-
mediary. It would be the continuation of an on-going smallholder Rural
Credit Program which BTM initiated in 1977; potential beneficiaries are the
present 1.5 million smallholder families of Madagascar. It would increase



- 15 -
production of export and industrial crops and foodstuffs. The proposed
project would also strengthen the managerial and financial capability of BTM.
Project Components
47.       The Project includes incremental investments fores ..-i by BTM under
the Rural Credit Program for the three-year period starting with the 1980-81
planting season which have been evaluated as financially and economically
viable and which are consistent with Government rural development goals. The
credit categories are present estimates, but depending on demand, prices and
other factors, such as the availability of inputs, the relative distribution
of credit operations may change during project implementation and additional
crops may be included. Therefore, appropriate provisions have been included
in the project description of the draft Development Credit Agreement, Schedule
2, Part A of the Project, to allow for such flexibility. Specifically, the
project components are:
48.       Loans to Smallholders:  (a) Seasonal credit would be made available
for the maintenance of existing coffee, vanilla, clove and sugar cane planta-
tions, as well as for the cultivation of foodcrops, like paddy, maize, and
groundnuts; (b) medium-term credit for the regeneration of coffee plantations,
the establishment of new sugar plantations, and the purchase of draft animals;
and (c) long-term credit for the establishment of new plantations of coffee,
vanilla, pepper and cocoa. Farmers would use the credit to pay for fertilizer,
pesticides, planting material and tools, land preparation and tree trimming
and hired labor. Since the majority of farmers cultivate several crops,
usually subsistence crops with coffee and another export crop, each farmer
would receive short- and medium-term credit, or short- and long-term credit,
depending on his needs.
49.       It is assumed that credit would be used to finance all the farm
expenditures for export crops, and that the farmers  own contribution would
be family labor. It is estimated that during the project period, BTM would
extend credit for export crop development totalling about 680 million FMG
(US$3.2 million) to about 25,000 farmers. These loans would be used for the
maintenance, regeneration, and establishment of 9,400 ha of coffee plantations,
the maintenance of 5,000 ha of cloves, the maintenance and establishment of
2,400 ha of vanilla, 300 ha of cocoa, and the establishment of 300 ha of
pepper plantations.
50.       BTM would limit smallholder credit for industrial crops to sugar
cane. Short-term credit would be provided for the maintenance of existing
plantations, and medium-term credit for the establisment of new ones. Farmers
would use the credit to pay for fertilizer, planting materials, and tools,
mechanical ploughing and transport, and for hired labor. It is estimated that
during the project period BTM would extend credit to some 1,200 farmers for
sugarcane cultivation, for a total amount of about 250 million FMG (US$ 1.4
million), of which about 40 percent for existing plantations and 60 percent
to establish new ones.
51.       For subsistence crops, BTM would extend c edit for irrigated or
rainfed rice in the lowlands, and maize and groundnu'ts on the hills (tanety)



- 16 -
as follows: (a) short-term credit would be provided for seasonal inputs,
principally seeds and fertilizer; and (b) medium-term credit for the purchase
of draft oxen, ploughs and carts. It is estimated that during the project
period BTM would extend credit to some 6,000 farmers for subsistence crop
cultivation, in a total amount of about 1,300 million FMG (US$6.2 million).
52.       Credit for Experimental Projects:  This component is designed to
generate experience with new types of activities to be used by BTM in the
design of its future lending activities in rural areas. Activities already
identified include vineyard establishment in Fianarantsoa Faritany, steer
stall-feeding in the central plateau, and possibly smallholder dairying and
pig fattening. It is anticipated that the majority of borrowers for these
activities would be smallholder farmers. BTM could also extend some credit to
some village producer cooperatives which are being established in several
parts of the country. BTM would extend credit for such experimental projects
on a case-by-case basis after a careful review of the technical justification
of the proposed activities, and of managerial and financial viability in the
case of village cooperatives. An amount of FMG 107 million (US$500,000) has
been included in project costs for this component.
53.       Staff Training:  BTM would carry out a training program for its
managerial and financial services department staff, with the objective of
establishing an in-house training program, and offering refresher and profes-
sional training possibilities for all staff levels from headquarters and field
offices. Emphasis would be put on accounting, simple financial analysis, and
banking administration and management. Sixty-three million FMG (US$300,000)
have been earmarked for these training activities, including 24 months of
consultants' services, didactic material, and scholarships for practical
training abroad. For the computer staff, the objective would be to complete
the training of the existing staff with the new computer, and to expand BTM's
staff capacity for various services; analysts, programmers, 14 operators, and
one operations manager would be trained. The program would be contracted to
IBM; part of the training would be given in Europe, part in Madagascar. The
principal investments would include the cost of courses, travel, living
allowances, and didactic materials. Consultants to help design and establish
the programs would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.02, draft Project Agreement). The monthly costs of
consultants- services have been estimated at about US$10,000 including fees,
allowances and travel.
54.       Itinerant Banks:  BTM would establish seven itinerant banks to
extend its activities in rural areas where the volume of business is not yet
sufficient to justify the establishment of a permanent field office. These
banks would consist of four-wheel drive vehicles especially equipped for such
operations.
55.       Study:  BTM would hire consultants, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, to prepare a feasibility study on establishing a Data Base Management
System.  The Study would investigate BTM's existing programs and the activities



- 17 -
of other foreign banks with similar operations. The consultants would propose
a detailed implementation schedule for the introduction of a Data Base Manage-
ment System with a detailed staff training program. The feasibility study
would require three man-months of consultants' services, at a total cost of
US$40,000 equivalent; the man-month cost of consultants' services has been
estimated a, about US$13,000 including fees, documentation, transport and
allowances.
Project Implementation
56.       The Project would be carried out by BTM.  BTM is a sound, well
managed financial institution but it is still at a relatively early stage of
development. Certain aspects of the laws under which BTM was established have
yet to be fully elaborated and applied. Therefore, BTM would exchange views
with the Association on any proposal to modify its Statutes or its organization
which could threaten BTM's ability to carry out its obligations (draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.07). BTM's organizational structure was reviewed during
negotiations.
57.       The Government would inform IDA of the establishment of an Orienta-
tion Council for the Banking and Financial Sector (ref. para 28) for BTM or
for the establishment of a new, separate Management Committee for BTM, instead
of the present joint Management Committee (Section 4.01, draft Development
Credit Agreement). In general, BTM has adequate staff to handle its current
volume of operations and to accommodate a modest expansion. Staff development
plans call for the recruitment of about 110 additional technical staff over
the next four years, or 2 percent staff expansion annually, a rate which has
been achieved over the past few years. Before June 30, 1981, BTM would
recruit a qualified and experienced financial analyst to serve at its head-
quarters and additional data processing staff to ensure efficient management
of its financial and computing services (Section 3.06, draft Project Agreement).
58.       Rural Credit Program.  The basic objectives, procedures, lending
terms and conditions for BTM smallholder loans, the role of the fokonolona
institutions and credit committees in credit administration, and the role of
MDRRA extension services, have been defined in an agreement (Protocole d'Accord)
on administration of the Rural Credit Program between the Borrower and BTM
(Section 3.01 (c) draft Development Credit Agreement).   The signing of this
agreement would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b),
draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would consult with IDA
prior to modifying the Protocole d'Accord between BTM and MDRRA on the Rural
Credit Program. BTM would carry out an appraisal of the creditworthiness of
all its borrowers and the viability of all its investments (Section 3.05(a),
draft Project Agreement).
59.       The quality of extension services for farmers varies widely among
the different regions of Madagascar and, given the diversity of geographic
conditions, production systems and the state of the road network, a careful
evaluation of the viability of different crops and farming systems for each
region is essential. BTM has agreed that it would carefully assess the
financial and economic viability of proposed farm investments for food crops



- 18 -
as well as the availability of adequate extension services and technical
inputs and would only extend loans where such viability could be demonstrated
(Schedule para B, draft Project Agreement). BTM would prepare detailed
proposals for the design and administration of activities under the experi-
mental credit component in consultation with IDA, and the same criteria would
apply for these activities as for other BTM lending operations in terms of
the viability of investments. It would be a condition of disbursement for
experimental credit activities that in any year BTM would have furnished a
detailed program of credit for the Association's approval (Schedule 1, para 4,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Lending Terms:  In the past, BTM's interest rate structure which
is established by the Central Bank (ref. para 34), has been appropriate to
assure the institution's financial viability. However, rates of inflation in
Madagascar have increased in recent years and are projected to continue at an
average rate of about 12 percent a year during the Project implementation
period. Therefore, some revision of interest rates applicable for proposed
Project lending activities was appropriate. In determining the levels of
proposed interest rates, the effective rate charged to farmers, including all
fees and commissions has been taken into account with the objective of ensur-
ing that the weighted average return for BTM's rural credit portfolio would
not be less than 12 percent per annum (ref. Schedule, paragraph A2, draft
Project Agreement). This level of interest rates would be appropriate to
assure BTM-s continued financial viability, and assure a positive interest
rate.
61.       The Government's rural credit policies and the adequacy of BTM's
lending terms and policies for activities under the Project would be reviewed
at least annually between the Government, BTM and IDA (Section 3.02 (a), draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.01(d), draft Project Agreement).
In general, BTM has adopted a sound policy toward loan recovery, barring
further lending in fokontanys where repayments have been unsatisfactory.
Agreement was also reached on a detailed schedule for repayment of Government
arrears to BTM (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       Extension Services:  Subject to certain reservations (para 26),
the current MDRRA organization of services for activities under the Project is
generally adequate to support the proposed developments. However, at present
there is no effective extension organization for vanilla and responsibility
for extension to smallholders producing sugarcane is divided between the MDRRA
and the Sugar Stabilization Fund. Under the Protocole d'Accord the Government
has made arrangements to ensure that the Coffee and Pepper Operation (OCP)
would provide appropriate extension services for vanilla growers, and that
services for sugarcane growers would be provided by SIRAMA in the Ambilobe
area and by the Sugar Stabilization Fund in the Brickaville area.
63.       Marketing and Prices:  Incremental production of export crops would
be marketed through the existing channels, mainly parastatal trading companies.
The quantities involved are not expected to place substantial additional
burdens on existing structures. Incremental production of foodcrops would
also be marketed through existing fokonolona and parastatal institutions.



- 19 -
Should the present price structure for paddy be maintained, a substantial part
of incremental paddy production is likely to be marketed through unofficial
channels. The Government and IDA would exchange views anually on the pricing
of the crops to be financed under the Project (Section 4.02, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
64.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$14.2 million, of which
about US$5.8 million or 40 percent represent foreign exchange costs. Project
costs are estimated at prices as of April 1980. Price contingencies were
calculated on a cumulative basis, at a weighted average rate for domestic
and international inflation of 12 percent for 1980 and 1981, and 10 percent
thereafter. Taxes are not significant. The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 8.7
million (US$11.5 million equivalent) would be made to the Government of
Madagascar on standard IDA terms and would finance about 80 percent of total
project costs (100 percent of the foreign exchange costs and US$5.7 million
equivalent in local cost). Local cost financing is recommended in view of the
low foreign exchange component of the project and Madagascar's efforts to
stimulate rural development.
65.       The Government would make the proceeds of the Credit available to
BTM under a Subsidiary Financing Agreement (Section 3.01 (b), draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk
(Schedule 3, para 4, draft Development Credit Agreement). The funds disbursed
under the Credit account would be capitalized every year and added to BTM's
equity. Amounts equivalent to repayment of subloans, including principal and
interest, would be earmarked every year by BTM for lending to smallholders
under the Rural Credit Program. Assurances were obtained from Government
on the above terms and conditions for relending the proceeds of the IDA Credit
to BTM, and for BTM's use of funds obtained from sub-borrowers loan repay-
ments. Ratification of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (Sections 6.02 (b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
66.       The items to be financed under the Project are varied and would not
be suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive bidding,
except for the vehicles that BTM will purchase as itinerant banks. However,
there is adequate competition, both international and national, in the normal
supply channels which buyers would use. Fertilizer is the largest single item
to be procured under the Project. For export crops and sugar, the extension
organizations and the companies procure their fertilizer through international
bidding; for foodcrops, the fertilizer made available to the MDRRA extension
services is normally obtained by the Government from bilateral donors, and
some of the parastatal companies also operating in the fertilizer trade obtain
it through international bidding, following Government procedures which are
satisfactory to the Association. Procurement of most other items would be
through normal commercial channels. Draft animals, implements, and tools
would be obtained from local sources. Seeds and planting material would be
obtained from OCP for export crops, from sugar companies for sugar cane, and
from MDRRA extension services for foodcrops.



- 20 -
Disbursements
67.       The Project commitment period is for three years (October 1, 1980 -
September 30, 1983) and BTM's estimated disbursements to sub-borrowers would
be in accordance with the estimated credit demand for the various activities
financed. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed on the following
basis: (a) 80 percent of incremental amounts disbursed by BTM under short,
medium, and long-term sub-loans for coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, cocoa,
sugar, and foodcrops (including draft animals); (b) 80 percent of the amounts
disbursed under the experimental credit scheme; and (c) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 95 percent of local expenditures, for technical assistance,
training, consulting services and vehicles. Disbursement against (a) and
(b) would be made against statements of expenditure certified by BTM. The
documentation for the statements of expenditure would be retained by BTM for
review by supervision missions. Disbursements against (c) would be fully
documented. It would be a condition of credit disbursement for each year's
program for experimental credit that a detailed program of activities had
been approved by IDA in any given year (Schedule 1, para 4, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audit
68.       BTM's accounts are fully computerized, and with the expansion of
its computer capacity, BTM is expected to be in a position to obtain monthly
position statements for all its field offices and consolidated quarterly
balance sheets and financial statements for all its operations. To date,
BTM's accounts have been verified by a "Commissaire aux comptes", but the
Government has agreed that BTM accounts will, in future, be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. It has been agreed with BTM that
(a) the accounting plan for financial institutions would be redesigned to
allow for an adequate analysis of the agricultural loan portfolio and finan-
cial ratios; (b) that BTM would maintain separate accounts adequate to show
utilization of Project funds, and (c) that BTM's accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and submitted to IDA within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (Section 3.03 (a) and 3.04 (a), draft Project
Agreement). The 1978 and 1979 accounts have been audited and the auditors
report found acceptable by IDA.
69.       Evaluation.  BTM would establish a simple monitoring and evaluation
system for the rural credit program under the project. This would be one of
the responsibilities of its Studies and Planning Department. The system would
be designed to provide clear information on lending operations by region and
by crop, to assist BTM in planning future lending activities. The borrowers
sampled would represent a range of regions, types of cropping pattern, farm
sizes, and types of loan. The proposed monitoring system would be furnished
to IDA for its comments not later than June 30, 1981 (Section 3.08, draft
Project Agreement).



- 21 -
Benefits
70.       The principal benefits expected to result directly from the pro-
posed project would be increased production of export and industrial crops
and reduced imports of rice. Additional benefits, which have not been
quantified, ..-uld be felt beyond the immediate beneficiaries of the project
investment as the result of better organized extension services and the
availability of oxen for hire as draft animals. In all, about 31,400 low
income families would benefit from the Project: about 25,000 from the export
crop component; their incomes could be expected to double to between US$330
and US$250 per year on the average; about 1,200 families would be expected
to benefit from the industrial crop component, their incomes could also be
expected to more than double, reaching the equivalent of US$850 a year; and
some 6,000 families would be expected to increase their cash revenues from
practically nil to US$185 a year as a result of activities under the foodcrop
component. In addition, about 1,800,000 man-days of hired labor would be
created annually, the equivalent of roughly 7,000 permanent jobs. This
employment creation, moreover, would benefit mostly migrant workers from the
southern, poorest part of Madagascar where the setting up of development
projects is constrained by lack of natural resources.
71.       The economic rate of return for all directly productive components
of the project (equivalent to about 91 percent of total project cost) has been
estimated at 60 percent. Economic rates of return for individual Project
components range from 13 percent (for improved rice and animal traction) to
over 100 percent (for improvement of existing coffee and vanilla plantations).
The sensitivity analysis demonstrated satisfactory rates of return for the
project as a whole as well as for individual components.
Risks
72.       The success of the project would depend on three major factors.  The
first would be the provision of adequate extension services and the availability
of inputs. It would not be possible or advisable to address these critical
sector issues in the context of the proposed project but steps have been taken
to offset this risk: (a) OCP, which is an experienced extension agency, would
be made responsible for extension and provision of inputs for all export crops
including vanilla and cocoa; (b) SIRAMA would be put in charge of organizing
and providing extension services to sugarcane outgrowers supported by the
Project; and (c) in all cases, and particularly for foodcrops, loans would be
granted only to fokontany where BTM is satisfied that extetsion services and
inputs are available to farmers.
73.       The second critical factor is related to producer prices and market-
ing. The project is viable under the present structure but increases in
producer prices of coffee, pepper and paddy would undoubtedly improve its
results. Difficult and complex problems are involved and slow progress must
be expected through a continuing dialogue with the Government. Marketing
risks would be reduced to a minimum by selecting project areas in zones where
easy road transportation is available. The third risk concerns the performance
of BTM and its relations with fokonolona institutions (ref. para. 25). This
risk is offset by the sound management of BTM in the past years and the agreed



- 22 -
Protocole d'Accord, but it will be essential that a continuing dialogue on
BTM's management and procedures be maintained throughout the project imple-
mentation period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and BTM, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
75.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report.
76.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 20, 1980



ANNEX 1
Pase 1
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVESGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KK.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           587.0
AGRICULTURAL    369.3                               MOST RECENT           WOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OP SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                120.0       180.0    250.0                228.9                   726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     38.0       71.0      78.0                 80.0                  699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     5.5         6.8      8.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.6       14.1     17.5                 17.3                   28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    14.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      38.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       9.0        12.0     14.0                 27.4                   61.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    15.0        18.0     22.0                 82.6                  126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        41.6       42.8      43.4                 44.9                   45.5
15-64 YRS.                        55.2       53.9      53.3                 52.2                   51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2        3.3       3.3                  2.8                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.8         2.2      2.5                  2.7                    2.7
URBAN                             5.0         5.1      5.3                  6.8                    4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0        45.0     45.0                 47.4                   46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    27.0        22.0     19.0                 19.6                   16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.9        3.2       3.0                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0      102.0      92.0                 91.8                   94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REOUIREMENTS)                 106.0       108.0    115.0                 90.2                   92.7
PROTEINP (GRAMS PER DAY)         60.0        60.0     60.0                 53.0                   53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      18.0        17.0     15.0                 18.4                   15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    41.0        32.0     27.0                 27.7                   21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   37.0        42.0     46.0                 45.3                   50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       177.0        ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        11.0     26.0                 23.2                   31.0
URBAN                              ..        67.0     76.0                 58.0                   66.8
RURAL                              ..         1.0     16.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..                 28.9
URBAN                              ..        88.0       ..                 67.0
RURAL                              ..         ..       9.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         9619.0    10194.0  10301.0               30910.4                14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3105.0     3361.0   3536.0                5793.2                 3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           469.0      355.0    405.0                1198.9                 1141.5
URBAN                           115.0       147.0
RURAL                           761.0       472.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         5.8      4.7
URBAN                              ..         5.3      5.0
RURAL                              ..         5.9      4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRIC ITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..         5.0
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..



ANNEX 1
Page 2
MtADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEBAGES
- M1ST RECENT ESTIMATE)TA.
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIDATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ALJUSILD LEKNLLMENT RATIOS
PK11,ARY:    TOTAL                  52.0         83.0       92.0                   57.7                      61.7
yNA3,E                5b.0         90.0       98.0                   74.2                      69.2
FPDALE                45.0         77.C       66.0                   54.1                      51.4
51CONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0          11.0      12.0                   10.0                      20.6
tvALE                  5.0          13.0      14.0                   13.7                      29.2
F,S1ALE                3.0           8.0      10.0                    7.1                      14.7
VuJCA1IOSAL LEROL. (0 OF SCONDARY)   9.0            9.0        7.0                   6.8                       7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PhB,ARY                              70.0        65.0       61.0                   45.0                      36.6
SECONDARY                           24.0          20.0      24.0                   25.2                      24.3
ALULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            ..         39.0      50.0                   25.5
GONSUIEHPTION
PASSLNLLR CARS FiR THOUSAND
POPLLATION                           4.0           6.0       7.1                    3.6                      38.8
hALIO hECEIVEhS PEI  THOUSAND
POPULATION                          15.0          78.0      74.0                   31.5                      83.5
TV ROCLIVERS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..         0.5        1.0                    1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                    8.0          8.0         9.0                   4.6                      24.2
CCNRN.A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            0.7        0.4                    ..                       0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3046.1       3627.6    4258.4
1F.ALE (PERCENT)                   46.2         45.7       45.0                   33.5                      38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               92.8         89.4       86.0                   80.7                      54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.5          3.4        4.0                    8.1                      17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  53.7         52.3      51.3                   42.2                      38.8
MALE                                   58.7         57.7       56.6                  55.1                      48.4
FEEiALE                               48.9          47.0      46.0                   29.5                      29.4
ECONONIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.9          0.9        0.9                    1.2                       1.3
INCOE DEISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATiE INCOME
RELLLIVED bl
HIWHLST 5 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS   41.0/d
I.ChLST 20 PERCLNT O' hOUSEHOLDS  60.1/d
LOWLST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.2/d
L0WEST 40 PERCELNIT OF hOUSEhOLDS   13.0/d
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
LSTI11ATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 ..           ..      150.0                  138.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..       86.0                   86.1
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                 ..           ..      135.0                  107.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..       86.0                   65.0
ESTIHATLD POPULATIUN BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMlE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       50.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..       50.0                   66.9
Not available
Not appiocable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
atong the indicators depends or availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   i965-66;  /d Population.
April, 1980



H                                                             *l                                                                                                                                                               00101                       I
I                                                                        .-l    -
010101  01.            -        I                       01           001       I  >                     -                C                                                                                      010
a'a0110a.o             0101010-01                      01          t3a.    3-    ..                     0101                                         .    a.                                     o   3ao  "
01.           a.            01010101   0101   a       011.010101                       01                               01              01101
01  10           011101010101001   0101.  01                 0101  01.01        01  1.0101    01                01      .01  01  >011   01                       01             01
0-0101010100010101.010100                35.0    .-l      01         .oa-.   01  .00101. 01010101        01.      001010101          01010-a        -                01  .000       01010101  01                   010101010101
01      01         011. 001'a0-0101 0101>010101          0101  010101  -101            0-10101010101001   01,01                  0101  010101001   001010101                00      1.  0101.1   010101.101>                       0101    0-01              01
0101             1.      01   >01                                        010101   000101  0101            011010101   0101.010101                          0101010010101010110101              01001   01010101    01  010101  01
1.01    001.    -.     0   oo.13Z333>0    0                      0101  00101   1.01         01010101011.00    01101  0101    01    1.01  01  010             0101  0101  0101      0101101  001101.010101010101                            01.01  010101   10        01
01                 01010-01    01   0          01       001001-50101       01-01010101001              0-0101  01  01010101   0      1.   0101       01    011.01010-01010101                 010101          001   01010-I.    01                          010        0        01
010001010101    1.01 00101   1..01o0-00101 01              01  010101   1.01              01*010-  0101  00  0101  0101   00      0101  0101  01  011.0-0101010101          01       101   0101  010101  01  01        0-01       010110  01  01   01         01
010101014     0101010101.001010101010101                1001      011.  0101         01    0100001   01001  01101  0101  0101    1.01  0101  01  01  0101.0                  010101    001l010-  01   01   0101                    001   01:010101         0101
1.01          01  01.01 010101>I10101        0101         0001   o0101     01.       -o.o 0001       0101    0101  01-.  10101     010101.00101   01  0101010  01            .0.0   0000-0101   0-01010101  .0                               014.01.01        01
.00101010    o01.. 40101 01                                                        010100101a.01.01O01  o01                    01a  010001  01  1.0101 40                01010 .010100101.0101010101.                           401010101010101    01
011.010140101          10.0101001.01.010-01.001010101.1.        40101   10101   1010             01010101010101.0110010101001    001       0-4010101 a   a                           010101010101010101010101   4               0101      40101   4   010101         0101.
401   30010Wt322t430132.01                                            ..01  01    .0100>0.0.0.0101010014301   30153201330101301013                                                 -            013 fli.  01                           >0101001001010101   00
010.401        0101010-44010101011.010101                 01  0   01  011.          0100101010101   001  01    0101    01    0101  01  0101  4010101  01  0101              01001   01401   4   0010101.   a                       010   101  01          0101
0101010101    01014001        0101010101010-1.01          0101  1010101  0101         0101.01010101   010101   014   001   0101     01  0101014       010140101401           01014  01  0   0  0-01  0101  01                       010      010101  01    0101
01401001             010101   0-0-011.1.0101 0-a01            011.1.   00101   401                   014011.011.   0101  0101  0101    0101       011.01   1.0101       .0101       01010-  01    0101       010101
010101010          0101   0101010-010-01   oaa          10100101011.01                 -014   0101010-0101   0101  0101    01    1.01001011.   010101  01  .01               01010101.0101           0100101            1010100010>014014                   0101
01  010-    1.1.1.011    010-014010140101            0101401.    0-   0101        0101010-0101      0101   014.        010-    0101   01010110  0101010101010101          >01        1.0-01010101011.01                          011.  00101010101         01
0101    0101010101     0101  01  1.0   001    10  001           01010   010         01        011.  01    01010101010101010-0              0101    01010-    010101   01010101        0101  0-01010101   0101  0-01                         01  00011.   01.       011.01
2                             01                                                                                                                             I                               4                       01010
01.01    010101101.    010101001010101011.   010101             1.1  01  0101      0         010101   0-010101       01  00101  4101        01  010010   0101010101001               0-0101   010101010101010101       1.                  .101      01010.101      01010-
0     4010101        01014-014010101   01  010101a              01    00101  01              010-01     0101010001   01010101    1001    1.4   01010101   1.040101         01         0101    01  0101     01010101  01                    0101  01  01o  01    0101101
0-                                                                                                   A 2010101>01   0101                                           01011.0! 01                             01  0101  01
0101401        011.   01.01010101014                    1401       010-  00001.      01  01                       010101  0        010   0-01.01  01                         01014   011.01001                                      1>01   0101    011.       01
01        40140        0101010101010101011.001                    0101  01  I   010101           01011.   010-010101   00101001      01    0001  0-0-       0101 01        0101      0001   00010101    01  010101  01                     1011      1.0101001      011.01
4.       01    0101       010101.0101010101   01oo   01         0         01.001   00101       010.00-0101010-0101       0101  01  01010101010101   0101   10-01010101                01011.   010101010101.00101010                         I  01  1.010101010       010-0
0-001        0-4010100101001.01         010101   01001   01001        01  01  010-010-0101   1000114   010          0101    0-014   01010-   0101010101       010101  01  0-0101      >001
01                       .-.01     01011.0101                 -010   .011.01     0101       01010101010-01            01        0101        010140101010010101    01                1.010-01-0101        0101010-01  01                 011  01  014  .0101       01  01
3350101       oo01
0101                                              0101010.                                                    010101      01       0        0101  .101001   0101  01  0101101         0001   010   0101  01  01  01  01                      01010101010101          010101
0101    01    0   01  01010101   0101010101010-01    401      011.01      01       01010101010-               0-011.01  010     0101   40    0101010101010101   01           4010101.010100   0101010101  01                      01..o    11.010101      0010-
0141.0101      01010101   01040140101   1.010101        010101      01  .010101          010-01001   01  01  01  0101    001       1.01       0101    010011  01  1.101      0-  01  010101  01    010-01   01                             00101001         01014
01010101    .00   01 0101 00101011.0101   4          010101.010101010-             I 00401401    1.01   011.01010-    01         01  1011.      00101010100010101                  0131.  01    o0-01       01                   0101  010101
011.               01010101010011.01010100                                               ,                               2                  00             01    0101014         001
01010101      0010101010101010-0101011.                 0>010   .001         01           01010010101011.   0101   014  0101       101     01011.  0   010101   001t         !01             01  01  0401   01        401        010101  0101010-0101      0101
00010101       01010101010-0101   014010-01   01o.      010101.010101   010-01        010-0100131.0101   01.0101.01    0101          1  .0101013       0101010-1010100       010101     0100101010-01010                01        00101  01    011.01       0101
0-0101401010100100101                                                                                          011.011010101  01      0101>   010-01.01 01  01     01  01
0100010          010101  01  010-01010101010101        01001   0101       0101       01010101010      1.01    001                                                                                                                j
1.  00101     0101010101011.  410   I   >001              01010100101  ....                      >01010101   01011001 01  1.01    01    0101          0101  0-01  1.01       0101     0     011.  00101        01                    001  01  .0101001      0101
o0101       0101001                                                              01                                                            1.01        01010101001011.            01.
01001011.       41010  011.01010101001.   01011.        0101  010101                  223.5010101.01         01  010101   010-    0101  01010101  00101010101010101          010101011.010101011.01    1.                           401   00101010-0        001
010101   0    01010101      0101.0101010101   0101    01  1.0  0101   01000           01010   01401.01011.010101010101014001    010101   011.01  01                          010101   010101010-  0152013   01                            .001    0101      0101
1001010        010010-.a 0101010-0-  010101   4           0-010-1401   011.01         0-01   010101011.  01    01010101  010-    0101  0101  01  01010101  010101  01        010101  01  4                                          001   010101,           0101
01  0101    0   0-  00100   40141.011.00101             01  1.  1.01  01001           0-0010101011.00010101014                   001010101010101010101010101               0101     1.0100101   010101010  01                      0101    01  010101     01
001010-1.      01010101401001   010-                                                                                                                              0140
401011.014001010101    0101  010101   01010101001011.010101.00101                              01  0101100101010101   0010101010101.011.010-01011.01    01010101                      01  01  0101010101
01010101      01010-0101401011.4010101001011.           010-010-001010101             00101010101  01          0101       lo       0101    0101    010-       01             010101  0-1.         01    01010101       01         010101   0101.010101      0101
<011001        0101   01001010101   >1.001.0101         010101   0o01   010101        014010101   010100101001                     0-0-   010.01.010010101   01                 01.0    01001010101.0401010             0101       0                         0101
0101011.01     0101101.01   0001011.0101010-001         10011.001001       0101         010100101010101010101010001                01         01010000-0101010010101          141.   001010101       10010-01010101     401        0010-   01010100101
0101  0101    01.01  01  01.001   010101041.1.0101    001  01  01                     01  0100101010101       011.010101  0110    0-01      0101010401.010101                     01  01,  011.                         001        0101010101010101            01
4011.010       01010101,40101   1.0401011.11.           0100010101  01  014           01010010101100101   0101  01>  01              4   0101010101010101401   01  01        0.00   41.0101        101    0105            01       0101010101014401            01
.0101010101001011.01.01011.0014                           4010101      010101       0101010101.01   01011.   1.01010101   0101    010-   0101.01010101010-1.1.01            010101   100010101   o0101.0-01           0101      001010010   -00-             01
01001011.         011  01010-01010-0101   0-  01010.0010101010                        01  01  014   010101   0101010101   0101    0101   014011.01   0101  010110010-        010-01   04      01  010001   011*         011.        0101     010101  01       01
01     01    .01011010101   0101      4.0010014             401      .  01011-    01  a0-0101  01  0101        0101011.01          0101  010101   010101011.010010-          010101     010-0101   0101010101    0      0101          01  0-01101010-
401010101          01101010101  .0  0-01 01010101      01                1.  01    01.0101011.01010100-   00101   1010101    01    010-01010101010101   010-  01              01o     01.10101     010-01014010101010-             0101    01    0-01
333501        313 0-oj0   010101.0101011.   01    0101  ..>A.2             0101    0101000-01011.010101         00101010-01010101010101010101                  010-014        010-0101      41.   0101  010101010101               010101   1.0-01  0101
01010101.010101001.010001         01  .000101   001           01001      0101010100101101010                 0101   4-0101010140-   010100101           010101   010101011.010101010100-                     010101   01014010101
010101         01.  010101   01010101.011.1.010140101010101>01.0                   0101   01010101010101   01  1.  0101  0       44    0101        0101010101                010101  01  0.101   01010140-01000          01      010101   >0101010
0101010001     .   010011011.010-0101010100101          011.01010101'01 0           0-010101010101   01.      010101010101010101011.0100101    0101011.010101                4001   010101   01'       01o01.0101      01         010101  0101   0101
0101   011.    -   011.01]  .01401011.0   1.0101        010101   011.01   01010       01010101010111.0101   01010-01010101              .1.01010101401.0101010-010101        01011.  1.0101101010101010-011.0101                  0-001   1.010-010101
0*01010   001010-010010>1.010101011.   010101...                    01  01101   010101010101010101010101            0101010101   014010101010101.             0   01   0101       1.0101010100-01        0101    011   01    0101010101
01   01040101        0-1.  0101      01010101   1.0101010101     01101040-0101010101011001    1.011    010101   0100101   0-0101010101011.01                0101   101010  0101 001   0101014       01011.01401    011.  10001
011         3
001   010-   0-01010101     010-010101010100101   0101  010100   0         0-0101   0001  011.  1.01   01001011.    0101        0101011.0101     01001010040101010101010011.
01010101010101010        0101010101010-010101011.401011.01              0001       01.010010101010-01010101010>   01.1.0101   01010-0101010101   011.01'  01010101010100101
I                                                                                                            dl
01310           01.3   0101  0-01011-010010101  01010101 4001401040101011.01.0100101                                                   010101>010101010101014010101011.0101.010-0-0101011.0101   011.0101010010-01>010101010-
01001.010101     01  010101011.0-010101      0010101      0101  0101  0101   01010100101041.010014001011.0101>.  0101                  0101010-0101010011.01010-01010010101    010101001
0101010101                                     0101              01              0101i                                                   01               01      -01      0101                   1.           010101           0101
1.[o 0101                 0101010101       0101010101     1.001      0140101010100101   01    1.1.401011.01         01010101   01010   401010101010101        0-0101   010   01010-0101010101010101   0101  01    01010.01010
01401010101                                                               ,                                                                                                                                                                         11
0-01010101           0-  01  .01010101   01010-01       0101  441.  01010101        1.0101   010101   001  0101  0101  01011.      01010101010101   01010101010101010101        010101   010101001.010101   0-01  001-01   040-001011001001
0101001   01    o010-         0101010101010101010101      0101>1.40101   0011.010101   010-0-0101010101010101011.0-1.011               010101.0    010101011.010   01  01  01001010101   .0  014   01401.00-01   00-0
0101010101010101   01010101010140101010-0001   0101    01  010101010101010101010-011.01010-                       010-010101010101010101010               01010101011.   00101011.010-   010101  01010101  01  01014   010101  01
00        1-01010101   401011.01   01010101010101010101010-01                     >j       01010101010101001                   2011.010      01001011.0101101014   1.4010101   0100  010101010100101             101  0101  40101010101010101011.
01010101    .1010101010101   01. 01010101014            01401   0-0101010101      011.t23  01010101010101010101I3101   01  01.01010101010101010101010101   4010101010101010101010101    01010101100101                          0101.0101   01  0101
0-  01013                   0111101                       01011      0101.401010101    01010-0101.010010101010010101010101011.0101010101010101011.01                       01010101   0-4010101010101010101.0101014    ..011.01   001010101010101010101
I                                         01        0101010101   0-0101010101010101011.010100101011.010101   0.010101   0101   01010101010104014           01  0101010101401   01010101011010101   010014          010101010101011.01
010140-01      010101010140141.01.001010101    010140101101.01010101.00101011.1.010101010-0101010101    0-010101   0-01010101010101010101                    0101   001011.0101010010101010100101014010101              010-    00101010-011.1.01001
0010101        0101010101010100-01010101001011.011.0140101010101010-0001                           01        01    0    01           00101010101001010101010101010101         0101010-010-0101010-0101010-00100101   0101  01  00104010-01001010101
010101  1.      01  01   0101440101010104010-001401010140101010101    011.011                      4          0           4          010101001001   000001001010101   0010140101010-010101.00-010010101   0101001   0101010101000-010101
0101010-01    011                                      01       4                 01,                                            010-I              2     01      .1       0001       010101                          0101      0101
1.                               4     01                 011        41                                                                                                  III                                                         01'
II                                        01         1.
01   010-0101010101                .                                                                                                                                     0                               01               1010>              1.      0101      01
01               01                                                  .1.   o,     1.  1.    01                ,       I   01         ,     01          01  01                ,  I       01l   01         01010101           01      001      0101
0101010101         1.01   I.         I                      0.1.01       0101  0101  01  01   01                101   I  01  01         1.  0101            00101               0101010101010101   01  0101  01            00  01       01    010101
011.0-401          0101  0101     001                      01010101,   1.01   011.0101   *01l  01              00-  01  0-  01          01  011.  01        01010101         01 011.010001   0-01  001  01      0101       01  01    01010  4014
01  010101   0101010101         0101   014     0101         0-           0-010101001010101010101010-00101011.                                       01  .01000101       0100101        010101010101     01      010-01  010-01          01        0-001     0101          4
40-              1.    1.0-     010101      01  ..        0101010101   0101  0101  01010101   0      01  01  -.0-  01  0-  I       -01  0010101                         010101001   01  01    0101014   0101000          01  01    0001011.010101           0
1.01  0101         010    01    01010         0-  01          010101001011.01010101001                     01                 011.       01010-1..0 01      0101310   .30101010   0101    .1.1001   0   010-0101           0101101010101014                  101
01  01010   1.  010101          010   01       0   0-      01   0101001010-0131.   40010101001    01.01010101010101.010-010-1.01                                         01010001   01010-  0101010101   010101010101     01.010101      0   01       0101012010101       010-..
01)  01014   010-0101           0101  01-.       0101           0101    01  01        01001010101   0-0-  0-   01  01  0001  01  01  01  01  010101011.01                0101010101010-0101   01010101   01010101   0101      010-      01       0010104   014           01010101
010101.0101        0101   01o     0-0          01  0101       0-010101010-01   010101001010101  01   01        0101  01  4        1.  0101   0100101        01010101010101010101400-01010101014    0101401                  011.   01010101011.   01  01,010110
0101  0101        1.    0101      0001        01  0101    0101010140101        0101010010-01   0-    1.0110-010101    I  4010101010101                     0-   01  0101  0101  1.00         40101101.0   01010101         101  1.  01  01010-01010101   0101  0101
011.01   0         010  0101    1.1.01        01  01       01011.010-01011.1.1.001                    01  01  001  01  01  01  01    0101  01  01          001   0101  011.010101011.   010101   0100       01  01           01   001011.01014011.010101
01001   10         0-01  1.01     010101           01o      0101.010-  010-01   0010140101010-011.0101                            01  011.010-010101        01010001010-01010-010100101   01  0101401   0-1.01              010101010101010104,1.010101
01  01010        0101        01  01  0-01     014               0-01    1001010   01          0104011.             010101010101    01  01  0101   010101                  01    010010-010-01   01010010001010-0101                    01  01     010141.01           10101
011  011.01.     1.0101    4      0101        0   01       401   01.010001  01  0100101        01   01  01  401  01  01  01          011      01  01      1.  01100-0-  01  011.           010101    01    0-00101       01       010100101010101101010101
01011.00101      010101  01         0101      01  0-01.      1.01   0101010   0101010101   0104011.                           0  0-  0101011.010101         0101000401>0-0101011.01010101               01  010-    01    010101.01010101   0101  01  01014
0101010100-      01  0   0101    01010        0-    01    0101011.01   0101      0001  010-01  01         01  0101  01  01  01  01    00010-001.            0-01         011.0110010-0101   01010-01.0101   0101010101          01  01014011.        01  41.010101
011.0-   401     01010-      01  0101     010-010101000101   0110010010101   01   01  01  0101  01  01  01           01010-4   1001          0101010101010101014   0010101011.010-01401010101                            010101.01
010101   4000100          010101,001                        0101     0140-0101001011.01011.01                   001            01  01  01  01  01  01011.1.0         01010100010101010101401   0101011.010              01010101    01  0   0101       01011.01
010101001          0101   014     0101         01  0101      0101   0-01001      01  4.001      01   01  01  01  01  1040101010010101                      01  01    010101011.01   1.  0101010001   1.  >0-010               01  01010101011.010101
100101010100    011.01   010-    1.01         01  014       010  01  010101   0141.0101010-  01    0   00001011.0    01  0010101010101                        0101010-     010101010101010101010101401401   0               01>0140101011.04
0-401o         01001    0-    01010         4   0101      010101.4010.01010101   0-0101  01             01  010                01  01010   01011          010100011.0100101   0101010-      0101010101     011011.01.01    4001104   01011.
010101010101     011.    0101     04          0-    1.   01  0101.01   4   01010100101                1.       1.01440101                01401011.4         0101  01010101   01010101010010101010101    0101  010-    01            010101   010100101   01.01.>
401     0101    010101   010      01010-      01  0101      .011.1.0-0101,0140101010-01010011.01010101   01  01  01010-0010101                              0101   010100101010101   010  01  1.  0-0101   0140101.01       010101010101011.   0101  0101010101
01   0011.01010-01   01           010101           010-010101010-0101001010101-0101    01   01  01  010  01  01  0-4                     010101  0-01       0101301010-01.00101   010101   01011.01   0101  1.0-01         1.  01    010101  0101        010101  01
0101011.01010101010101                       .    0101010101          0101    0101010-1.014011.1.01    01.01                   01  010-  0101  01                         1.01010101010101010101   0-010101                       010101000101001010101401
0-01014   1.       0101  1.01       010        01  010      01.001010010010011.1.011.   01   01                  01  1.0-01  01        1.0101014            013225012010-0101011.01   01  401010-0-              010-0101010101010101014014                001011.
010101010101    01010   0-        0-1.01           0101    00010000101   01  01  00101                01  01  011.   0000   4   01  010101401               1010101-01.0010101011.0101   01  0.101010101                    014    011.01010101,0101.0101
01-o    01       0101    010101       1.  4        01010-01   010101   010101010101011.       01>0101          I    01  01  0101      01o01            1.01441.4010101000-01.1.01011.0101010101.401                    01011.1.0          01      0101.0
01010101  01    00101      01       0101      01  0101    1.1.01   00>   01.0101   010101    01    010110-01010101    0-  4010010101101                    o010-   0140100   0101010101   0101011.010-0101110   0101    1.  01  014010-010011.0101011.
00010101010101011.         0101  01       01  1.       01  0101     0-01014010101010101011.01-011.0-   01    4   4   01    0001   01           0001   0101'01       01001011010101010101010101101   01001   001101.010              01  01  0101  01  0-010101   010101
010010-01        00101   104      01.01        1    01        010101-010101  0101   0101010101   1.       01  001   010-01   4   01  010101010101          01011.010101   0101010101000         1.    010101       01    4   01    010010011.1.011.
1.0-1.   0101    0101010101111                     010      01   0101   001010010101014                01        01  010101       4   0101010101010         01010101   401001010101   010100-401010101011.0010              >       l0101.   010101  01   0101
001.00010101011.01010101                       0-  0101   011.01001011.01010-010-01010101   01   1.  01  01                          011.01011  o.01       flu> 01010-1.01001101010101   >001  014   .00   010110         01  01       0101011.01011.   00101014
01  010101     010101   010     1.0101      01    0101  010101  0101   010-010100101   01  4         01  01  01o  .01013.0  01    01011.01  01           01001010101   01010-  0-0   0-011010-  011.0   010110101    01  01  00010101010101010101010,
0-001011.          010  01        01011.           01  0101010100011.0141.0-0   01  01.01  01    01            1.1.    01  0101  01  0-0-  010101           001010      01  010-014010100110-01   011.010-01  011  01          01  0101010101401010-   0101010-1.
1.  0101011.    011.      0101    011.0-      01  -011.01   014010144010101011.01010101                01  01  0101   10111.0   01  01010101   010          101   0101.010101   01010-01010-   0140101   00101010-014       01  01  01010101-0101014         010101
010101   011.    010101   0101    014          4   01010101011.0100101   0-0-010-40101    I            01  01  0101         I            01010101001        0-1.01  0101  01011001   001011.10-01010101      014011010-     00  01  01.401    01  01  01.010101           01
010101010101     01  01  01l    01  01            0010010101014010100101                                  010101   010101001   0  .01   0101011.1.         40-010101010101010101010-010101010101    1001401                01  01  010101010101   0101    01010101.
01011.01  01    01014   0101      010101       I  01  0-  0-010-0101010100101010101   0101  01    01  01  4           01010100101000101014011.01            0-  0010140101010101010101010101014014010101                            011.011.01.01401       011.  0101
0010140101         01010101010101                    00   010101010101010101              0     01   01  0-  0101   01040-01010101441.0101001.             01  01100100010-010100   0010101401011.0100101011   01   01   I  01  100101010100010-4010101
0100   010101   401      000101  01         0101       01   101.   0-01-011.01001010101010101.0101   4          0-  0     010111.01010101001010100-010-0-           0*01   0101010-0-010010100101   011.  0          01   10101    01        01010140-04   01  011.1.010-01
01010-01010101           01   01  01        01    0101       0101014010101010101011.0101   01           01  101.010101   0101010101  01  01   01            01010101011.001010101-0   011.011.011.0101011.01014010011.   01  01010011.
0101010101      -01014   0101     00101       01  01.010101010101010101001010-                                     0  4   0101   4   010101010101401        01010101010101010101010101.100101    0101010010101,  01           001   01010010-0101010101            01
011    0101010100101001                        010101010101010001            01010101  01  01                     0101101101  01  0-  01  01010141.         01011.41.        01010100100100101010-010110   01014            10101.      0101  010141.   01..>0101
01  011.014      010101   001     010001      01  0101010010101101001401011.0101                               J0101  01   01)01001    1.01        100    .00101010-01001   401401010-           011.    0   01010101       0101010101010101 01  01010010101
0101400001       1.1.01   0-01    01  01      01  1.001   1.  014010101010101014010401                         01101010  0      01  0-000101011.014                        0101001010-00101010101   0101  1.01             0   01001010101>   01  0-  01010100101
0101           0-010   014      40101       01  010101010101010101001010101011.                                01010101010010010101010101010101           0010101010101010101014000-01   .0101   0100-01010101           010-0101010101010101010-01010401001
0101   00100     0101    0101      01         .010140101011.01    1-010-0101010101                             oI0-010101010101  01  1.010-401010100010101.0101.01011.00101010-010101    0141.0101001                       1.0011.  401010101010101   01010101010
01  0101      01000     01     I 010     0101     1.0101011.01010101.01      01       0-01                 01!  001401001010101011..   0101   0            01  01010101   0101010-010-010101.   01011.4010101010-       010-00101010101014   0-0-0101101,
0101010101001010101>                0101    01    0-010         014010101101.01   010101014                      00-01101101010101010101   011.01           0101.1001.010-          1.401010101    01011    0-01401010140101011.011001.01                010-0101>
0-  -010101        4   01       40101     0      01  0-   1010      01  01>010101010101                        4011.011.0101001040-0101   010101          010101010101>010-01010011.401010140101.0               1.01    01      01  00-0-0101010
-01      0110    0011.   0-01     0001       01.     0101    00  010101010101  01    001                       -50   01,01010-01  01       010101   001       0101   1.010101010101014010110101010140140101                0011.0101010101014   01  .001  0101
0010010101                0-01    0101       0101  01   .  01  I.  ..0-   0101   0011.010101                      01010100140401010101    0101               010101010001001   010-01011.4   0-014    0101  01010101        00   01010101011.010101010-01    0101
01.232  01   3001       001      4.01      0-10101  0110101  010-01001010101010101401.010101                    0101010-01001010-   00101                  53424501010101    0101010-            a01001   0  011.          0001    00101   010101       01010101  01
0101                            0101140101010140101001   4                                            0-  0101010101011.0101                       0100011.0101010-01011.  01  010101010101       0101    00101.1.01   010101  0101401-01
010       001   01010-01      01011.01010010101   0101    .                    001010101011.011.01010101-0101011.010101.011.010140101010101    0101010014010-010101                      -01010101  0101   01001010101010-000101
010101 01
010101    0101   01.001011.010101010101   01010       010101                   010100-01.0101  01  0101001010101                                            001010101010110
001                           0101  0101     01010010101         1010100101 01                       01  0-  0-01 010 .1010-01010   10            014000101  01  01  01  011.0101010101   0-  011.0101         0101010101   00101010101    01010101001
1.010100010011.0101.0101                    11  011.  010010101010101010101        010140                      01001   01101.01014    00101               01010100       0101401014401
0101010101      01  01  00101   1.01014001010101011.0101.01.01    010101010010                                   1.0-010100100010101   01  401             010141.01010010101010101-01 0101  1.4  01011.0101 010101010101011.1.401010101010   0101010
0-0101010101   011.01010101         0100    01       01001   0101010101010-0101010101   0                          0140144   .01  4011.011011101            0101  010100  0101  0101011.01  0-01   01010101011.   0-01      01   010101010   01401    01  0010101
010101010                   01                                                                                                                              0101.0-01010101010101010101011.0101                            010-0011.010101010-01   0101o   010-01
010101011001010140101010100101010101    010-0-010-010-01   0101010-01                                            01  010100-010-010-010-       1.010101.1.000101010101010100101    0101010101010101010  01                    001010-0   0101   0101.01.1.0011.
001010101      0101  01  0101    010101     001   0.-... -010101         011.01011.010101011.                                     010101010  01  0101   011.0-0101011.0.0401          01010101    0101010101010101           4014    01010101010101011.0101011.01
1.010141.01          0-    1.01  0010              01011.0101010101011.   0101     010101   001                  010010101  01         010101010101-01    00101010101010    00101401010-00100101    011101                  01401010101001       001011.40111
001010101      01010101   I>'                                                                                    01.01010100101                                                                                              0100101   010140101010-010101 0101  01
0101-01010010101001001                                              >s3.sj                    01]                             01
010   0101   010101  01010-   1.         0101   010101010101010101010101   010101010101>01010101.0   4.0-01010010101010101010101010101010101010010101.   .010101   oO0-010101010-00101                           01   01  011.0   1.40100101010101010   0101
00    011.01   0101         011.  04                          0-010100-010100101    0101                       01] 41.01011.0101   .0101  1.010101401   001010101   01   011.  0101  0010101   0101  010101                01001   o0-01   0101     010101010.0101
0101010101014010101   Ho    3201               0101010    010-0101       01011.1.1.010-0101   010101    01       001   010-40401010 001l0101001010  0101011.01001010101010-01010-1.0-01..0101001.01010010-0101    1.01100101   4-01
01011.01  01  0101010-  001           01    .00101010101-01   010101010101010101   0101001010401               0101  00-01   00101011.01.01401011.   01010101         .01011.010101001401010101    01010101010101011.0-   01001001.440101010101
01 01001 01  000101   0-401   0101            01401]     01010101010101010-04010101014   01  01.01..011.0101010  011.0101011.010101011.00101010101   0101010101   0101  01010101   0101  01  0101                          010101  01  010101-010101   -01,0100101
010101001.   01   0         01   01.0101    01010-01                           '1             011.0110  01  0010-0101.01010101             014    01          010101010101010101010101   010101010101010101040101014010101010101010101011.014
01401010101        011.   401    01>01                              0101014   01010100101010101   01  0-010101010-01010101010010101.1.0-   01  01001   010101011.   0101010-  0101  01010101010101010101                      1.0101011.     0010101010100101.
0101 0101.0101.1.010010101010101011.0101010100101010101010101001 010101 010101010010001010101 0101010101010101010-001010101010101010101010011.010010101 001 0 01011.1.0101010101 .010101010-
01-0010101   001         010-  0101       0-0101       ]                                         1.        0-   0-  1.  01  01  014    010-           0101                                                    01      44   01  4                      01
01010101010011           0-0101   00125   001                                                        44        Oj    01011.1.1.              0101        00                                                      4       4-01011.                        '1
1.401010101>..    0100101001-01014010140101                                    Ol                              01]
01  01401      001011.                               [        014014301.011301.0134001..01  0101011.011.0101   0101010101010-010- 01.0101   00101   0-01010101011.010-010101>0141.010010100101011.01010                         01010101001010101   00101010101
0101  0101o01   01010   0   0101   400100101                          01               01  0101  01  01010101010101010101010101-010.010101   01011.0101010101                      01               010001.   01010101010101010010101001010101010101-01
0     0-  0-    010   1.  01010-00-1.401010010110          010-01-0101010-.                1.               0101001
001010101014             0        01        0-                                                                                                           01



ANNEX 1
Page 4
ECONOMC lICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT Di 1977                                                            Annual Rates of Growth
USS Kln        2                  1970-75            1972-77
GNP at Market Prices                                  T77iT3       100.0                   0.9                0.4
Gross Domestic Investment                               282.9       16.0                 -1.0                -3.0
Gross Domestic Saving                                   233.7       13.2                 27.5                36.1
Current Account Balance                                 -33.5       -1.9                    -                  -
Exports of Goode, NFS                                   402.6       22.7                  3.1                -1.3
Isports of Goods, IMS                                   451.8       25.5                 -0.9                -7.0
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND                                                1/                         2/
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976                                    Value Added               Labour Force -            VA Per Worker
US$Mln   I          Ki~~fn            1        US$
Agriculture                                           63.           38.0        3.36             84.0       188.4          4T5.0
Industry                                              318.0         19.0        0.20              5.0    1.590.0           378.0
Services                                              654.0         39.0
Unallocated                                            69.0 3./      4.0   f   0.42              11.0    1,721.0           409.0
1,674.0       100.0        3.98            100. 0      420.6           100 0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                       Central Government
FHG Bln         2 of GDP
1978      1977   1975-77
Current Receipts                                      86.5       15.3    14.8
Current Expenditure                                   90.7       17.6    15.6
Current Surplus                                       -4.2       -2.3    -0.7
Capital Expenditures                                  33.1        4.6     4.2
External Assistance (net)                              4.6 4/    1.0      1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                               1975       1976    1977
(Billion 1MG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Money and Quasy Money                                  86.9       100.6   121.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           12.4        19.4    28.5
Bank Credit to Private and Para-Public Sectors         78.4        82.2    95.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasy Money as 1 of GDP                      22.8        25.0    27.4
GDP deflator (19758100)                               100.0       108.2   115.3
Annual percentage changes in:
CDP deflator                                      *     3.2         8.2      6.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          148.0        56.5    46.9
Bank Credit to Private and Par--Public Sectors          2.1         4.8    16.7
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
I/  At market prices.
2/  Total labour force; unemployed workers are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
I/  Import duties
4/ 1977 provisional.



ANNEX 1
MA.X PA&MM13 AM CJPrUL PI=                                   Page  5
w.AACZ OF PAYMMNnT                                            1976            1977
)1RCLASDTS! EXOPRTS (AVUAGE 1975-77)
US$ HI            2
Export of Goodo, NtS                        392.9             341.9           402.6        Coffee                                           122.4           57.8
Imports of Goods, aS                        482.5             401.3           451.8        Vanilla                                           19.0            5.9
Rource cap                                  .496              -59.4           _49.2        Cloves                                            43.7           L3.5
Slat nd Moot Products                              5.3            1.6
Interest Payments                            -4.2             .4.6             4.9         Fish end  hellftiah                                3.6            1.1
Workers  Remittances (net)                  -29.4            -26.5            -24.4        Sugar                                             12.6            3.9
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -9.1              -0.1              -         Petroleum Products                                22.1            6.8
Net Transfera                                4*                50.3            45.0        All other Commodities                             95.1           29.4
14l8nts on Current Ancoimt                   8) 4            -40 3                                 Total                                    323.8          100.0
DlreCt Foreign Invmsmat                        4.5              1.4             2.8        1XIMAL DEBT, DECDIER 31. 1978
Nelt MGT Borrvotin
DOsbursemets                             42.1             20.4            22. 0
Amortization                             -8.4             -8.5              .3         Public Debt, including Guaranteed                       259
Subtotal                                  T7              1.9              T37        Son-Guaranteed Privact  Debt
Ca;ital Grant*                               33.6              26.4            20.0        Total Outstanding & Dlsbursed                            259
Other Capital (net) 1/                      -6                 -4.0            -2.6
Incresea in R.eserveai(-)                    2.2               TT6              =4
S0 's Itan2                                                                                D'8T SlVICI RATtO FOR 1978
Transections with DV                           9.7              1.6             1.6
Grisaa  eaerveo                               356             42.2             68.9        PblI  Debt, including Gueanted                           4.1
Not  eserves 3                                S7.2            57               56.9        3r o-4ranted Private D  bt4
-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total    Outstuan                                     ing  A  Disbursed                         4.1
RATE OF ESRA
1A 075 UcEAZIGZ                                                                     I!lRD/1D.A  ErNNC IULY31  E198O (IIS$ ntilion)
1975                  1976                     1977                    1978
___1_ 0__ G_4_3__S$__        00__ ___ 23___     __ _  _ _ __  _ _      _  _ __  _ _ _  _                                                  IBRD     IDA
D2SS1 0O0P55G2l4.32    DSSI ooC2GZ38 96       UJSS1.OOudG00 245.67    USS: 0OOFMG2.5.64 Outotanding 4 Disbursed                          28. 74   96.66
'G1.00-lUS$O. 0047     FlG1. OOUS$O.0042        N1l. OO3US$O.0041      Flt00. OOISSO.0044 Usdisbwraed                                      3.06  156.03
Ottat-dis  incuding  aibrm                     3180  252. 69
!.LO and staff estimtes.
j/ Icludes errors and omissions  SOT allocations and other private short ter  cspit l.
21 Estimated ratio of debt service to eports of goods and non-jaetor services.
1/ set foregn aseets of the banking syste.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1980) 1/
Loan or                                                             US$ Million
Credit                                                         (net of cancellations)
Number       Year     Borrower        Purpose        Bank        IDA     Undisbursed
Seven Credits and four Loans
have been fully disbursed                          25.83      64.25         -
322-MAG  1972       Madagascar Irrigation                     15.30        2.24
506-MAG  1974                   Livestock II                   9.60        7.05
1065-MAG  1974                   Forestry            6.75                   3.06
641-MAG  1976                   Highways IV                   22.00       11.62
663-MAG  1976                   Education II                  14.00 2/   11.80
817-MAG  1978                   Andekaleka
Hydroelectric               43.00 3/   36.32
881-MAG  1979                   Mangoky                       12.00       12.00
903-MAG  1979                   Railways II                   13.00       13.00
938-MAG  1979                   Highways V                   24.00       24.00
977-MAG  1980                   Industrial Bank                5.00        5.00
1002-MAG  1980                   Water/Sanitation             20.50       20.50
1016-MAG  1980                   Petroleum Exploration        12.50        12.50
TOTAL                                    32.58    255.15       159.09
of which has been repaid                 .78       2.46
TOTAL now outstanding                    31.80    252.69
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                 -          -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA           31.80    252.69
TOTAL Undisbursed                         3.06    156.03       159.09
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of July 31, 1980)
Loan       Equity      Total
(US$ Million)
1977      Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga    11.00            0.29      11.29
1980      Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                    1.25          -         1.25
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
3/   Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irrigation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-
farm development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied
research station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and health
facilities.
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara Canal and the North Canal, construction
of secondary irrigation and drainage canals, and construction of the 8.1 km
road between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are completed and work has been satisfactory.
However, SODEMO, the agency responsible for on-farm development and agricultural
services, faces serious management and financial problems and as a result,
on-farm development and construction works have lagged behind schedule, agri-
cultural production is poorly organized, and yields are very low. The
Government and IDA have agreed on a plan of action to clarify SODEMO's respon-
sibilities and financial plan and to improve overall management, but this will
require careful monitoring in the coming months. The closing date was recently
extended to allow SODEMO time to carry out the project as it has been revised
and to permit land development, of which less than 50 percent has been completed.
Credit No. 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project encountered serious problems in the three years follow-
ing credit signature, and, principally because of legal and organizational
difficulties, little progress was made. Following significant changes in
institutional and management arrangements, the Credit Agreement was exten-
sively amended; the Amended Agreement became effective September 1, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Project implementation is generally satisfactory. FAFIFAMA, the
principal project implementing agency, is now well-established and operational,
with a full staff complement. Implementation of the project's most important
component - the development of veterinary and livestock services for village
producers - is proceeding well. Pasture improvement experiments are being
undertaken. Schools and health centers are being constructed, and the Ministry
of Health is preparing a utilization plan for the health centers. The develop-
ment of water points and road improvement is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cooperation with fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is
good. In the middle west, OMBY continues to provide machine services to
villages surrounding the ranches established under the IBRD-financed Beef
Cattle Development Project. The pilot pig program and ODEMO cattle share
fattening programs have barely begun, with action limited to construction of
some buildings. The pig program would be launched in 1980 with cooperatives
and on the basis of breeding pigs to be imported.
Loan No. 1065-MAG:       Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 525-MAG       US$6.75 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which it is proposed will
eventually supply a future pulp mill to provide pulp for export. The planting
program is ahead of schedule and cost estimates are in line with forecasts,
despite a reorganization of the project which entails more building and
infrastructure than originally estimated, and the need for more intensive soil
preparation than foreseen at appraisal. Technical difficulties which occurred
in the early stages of the project have been or are being resolved. A second
forestry plantation project was appraised in May 1980.
Credit No. 641-MAG:      Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country's road maintenance organization. Project implementation
is satisfactory. However, start of the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been delayed.



ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. It in-
cludes five Regional Education Centres and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships.
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete. Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training arrived in
Madagascar during September 1977. Architectural work has generally been well
executed although this has taken much longer than expected. Work on the major
project components, the Regional Education Centres, was completed about 14
months behind the appraisal schedule, although with ORT assistance, the plan-
ning schedule for the Teaching Materials Production Centre has been maintained.
The project is presently about one year behind schedule due to cum-
bersome Government approval/decision procedures, and the Government's recent
proposals for the "socialisation" of the construction industry has introduced
a further element of uncertainty which may adversely affect project imple-
mentation. Serious delays have also been encountered on: the preparation
of an educational sector survey; the establishment of task forces for educa-
tion evaluation; proposals for decentralization of education; and textbook
production.
Norway requested a 50 percent participation in the project, and an
agreement to that effect was signed on December 16, 1977.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978 (including a Supplementary
Credit of US$10 million of May 8, 1980);
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA staff.
Contracts have been awarded for the civil works and all major
equiptlent and supplies. Total project costs are about 20 percent higher
than estimated at appraisal. However, even at the higher cost, the Project
is4still the least-cost solution for the supply of power in Madagascar.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project;
US$12.0 million credit of May 17, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1980;
Closing Date: August 31, 1984.
The Project will support the development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky
Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These invest-
ments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately
to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production. The Project will be imple-
mented over a five-year period and will comprise: development of irrigation
and drainage networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including produc-
tion of concrete canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha
of traditional rice fields; consultant services for design and supervision;
applied agricultural research; social infrastructure; training and project
preparation for agriculture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing
about 25 percent of the total project cost. Civil works which were scheduled
to start in January 1980, are delayed because of lack of cement.
Credit No. 938-MAG:       Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of
July 30, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 11,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Project would prevent further deterioration of the paved high-
way network, thus reducing transport cost and avoiding early and costly
reconstruction works. It would also increase the maintenance capacity of
the Ministry of Public Works and provide for an all-weather road connection
between the regional district of Antomboka and the capital, Antananarivo.
Co-financing was provided by a European Economic Community Special Action
Account credit of US$10 million.
Credit No. 903-MAG:       Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million credit
of June 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
May 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the Project are to help the Malagasy railway
company renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and
efficiency of its operations and improve its financial management and
accounting methods. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided
US$20.5 million in co-financing.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 977-MAG:       Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Expected date of Effectiveness:
September 8, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
The project will support Madagascar's growing industrial sector
and BNI's crucial development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign
exchange requirements to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and
medium-scale enterprise sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through
technical assistance.
Credit No. 1002-MAG:      Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project;
US$20.5 million Credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions.
Credit No. 1016-MAG.      Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project;
US$12.5 million Credit of May 8, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will support the Government's efforts to develop a
domestic supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector.



ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          18 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    BTM and RMEA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:            January 1978
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:         August 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:                 June 17, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          January 1981
Section II -Special IDA implementation action:
None
Section III - Special Conditions:
(a) During the project implementation period the Government would
obtain IDA's approval prior to modifying the Protocole d'Accord
between BTM and MDRRA (para 59);
(b) BTM would engage a qualified financial analyst for its head-
quarters and additional data processing staff (para 58). The
terms of reference and conditions of employment of the con-
sultants for the training program and the Data Base Management
System study would be submitted to IDA for approval (para 58);
(c) The Borrower and BTM would review with IDA at least once a
year the adequacy of BTM-s lending terms and policies (para 62);
(d) The Borrower would exchange views annually with IDA on the
pricing of the crops financed under the Project (para 64);
(e) Conditions of credit effectiveness would be (i) that a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement between the Government and BTM, approved by
IDA, had been satisfied (para 66); and (ii) that the Protocole
d'Accord had been signed between BTM and the MDRRA (para 59);
(f) It would be a condition of credit disbursement for each year's
program for experimental credit activities that a detailed
program of activities had been approved by IDA for each crop
season (para 60).



IBRD 14922
.                                                                                                          5 6*  48  *0  MARCH 198o
-12'                            MADAGASCAR                                                                                                                           12
0GA                                   I
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                            ntseronono
PREMIER PROIEr DE CREDIT AGR/ICOLE                                                                                        +>
BTM'S OFFICES
2tPESENrATION  fJF iA srm              P d -  1
,-  -f,p                        Povd toads                                            ~\s2
Grou'pes                    Ral,esO 90dro,74\1
A     $tovchEs                     AIf weather roads
Agesen                      Ros,tes accessibf an tore so uo..
B     Field Offi cs                Noopeparmoet roods                       H,DO     vel                                   Vohll-rino
Sub-Branches                 Railways
Soss-Ageaces                C=e,iot defer
MAJOR CROPS                      +     Arot
PRANCIPALES CULTUOUES                  Aop+
[14  //Vanilla                         Rivers
i'oo,lla                    flevvs'a a et rwyes
F7T7  Pepper                          Bsohy.ts (r,m perrer)eo
r-C       Cloves                       Fariltny boondar'es
iGrofa                      irnlwe, des foritddon                             hlya
NOTE Ricre and cattle ar distribsed                                                           M~     
Rh  56I7 ottrort,,dn
Moz rnbiqte pe50r epAro eoof  '                         /r-obe,                                                            W 
Maott, ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    Mhjag
NOTE: Rc o)   /t ore                                                                                                                                         Is t 'ORAHA
throughout~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m O otbo oordh h 2? cu.
k'Z et 6ow,, so,,t                              v       t    ' e/T;nO1e;oord k,tt son                               ,r   h
i~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h roovvo of th rndee Of < frOthz;j1V A t E A
A,    e                                         Tvooaaino aort h /orbe eOOochOO
C h annol                                                   nd, e /   8\  1     A m6.hd  I                                       h dI / n   clio  n
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bo,4evdo,o ehomaOnths to
Bed o
o|co epoe i-  soo bhod.eo             |
-20'                                      Antsir\ )/2a S 2 0 <                                                     ;17 n tOrvo
K(IIOMETERS 0     0/    100    1S0                                  cO                      P                                   rrrn        \ . 1           A tCR
MILES 0   S0 uNi7           ~      ~             4                                   48             [  k.
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- I                     k                                     



