Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2898-MAG
MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 7, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                =       Malagasy Francs (FMG)
US$1.00                      =       FMG 210 1/
FMG 100                      =       US$0.48
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                  British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)      3                            3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m )          3        =        35.31 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m /sec)  =          35.31 cubic feet per second
l hectare (ha) = 100 acres           =        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2             =        0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )             =        0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)                      =        2.20 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                          =        0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton or t)            =        2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
BCSP               Bureau de Commercialisation et de Stabilisation des Prix du
Poivre (Marketing and Pepper Prices Stabilization Bureau)
BNM                National Development Bank for Madagascar (Banque Nationale
Malgache de developpement)
BFV                Commercial Bank (Banky Fampandrosoana NY)
BNI                Industrial Development Bank (Bankin  Ny Indostria)
BTM                National Rural Development Bank (Bankin' Ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra)
CSPC               Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du Cafe (Coffee Prices
Stabilization Fund)
CSPG               Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du Girofle (Clove Prices
Stabilization Fund)
CSPV               Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix de la Vanille (Vanilla
Prices Stabilization Fund)
FMR                Rural Credit Program (Financement du Monde Rural)
FOFIFA/CENRADERU  Center for Agricultural Research and Rural Development
HASYMA             Cotton Company
MDRRA              Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform
(Ministere du Developpement Rural et de la Reforme Agraire)
OCP                Operation Cafe Poivre (Coffee and Pepper Organization)
PCA                Small Agricultural Credits (Petits Credits Agricoles)
URER               Unite Regionale d-Expansion Rurale
Fokonolona Institutions:
Fokonolona and Fokantany = village level local government
Firaissam-pokantany = second tier local government (former canton)
Fivondronan-pokonolona - third tier local government (at former
sub-prefecture level)
Faritany = fourth tier local government (at former province level)
FISCAL YEAR (Government and BTM)
January 1 - December 31
1/   Exchange Rate prevailing at the time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ........................................                    1
II.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...................................                   2
A.   General  ...............................................                 2
B.   Government Strategy ...................................                  4
C.  Government Services ...................................                   5
D. Production, Processing and Marketing of Principal
Crops ..............................................                 7
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND THE NATIONAL BANK FOR RURAL
DEVELOPMENT - BTM .........................................    16
A.   Credit Sources and Policies in Madagascar  ....              .........   16
B., The National Bank for Rural Development (BTM)  ....              .....   17
C.  Rural Credit Program (FMR) ............................   24
IV.  THE PROJECT ...............................................    27
A.   Objectives and Strategy ...............................   27
B.   General Description ...................................   28
C.  Detailed Features  .....................................   28
D.   Project Costs .........           ................................    32
E.   Financing  ......................................                       33
F.   Procurement  ....................................                       34
G.  Disbursement  ..........           ................................    34
H.  Accounts and Audit ....................................    35
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................    35
A.   Project Implementation and BTM Staffing  ....               ....        35
B.   Project Lending Policies and Procedures  ....               ....        36
C.   Technical Supervision (Extension)  .....................   39
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation, and Reporting ....               ..........   40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Madagascar in August-September, 1979, composed of D. Lallement, R. Egli,
H. Morice, and F. Donahue (IDA), and H. Vieilhescaze (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                      Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND PROCESSING .....     ................  40
A.  Technical Features of Production .................. ....  40
B.  Farm Models .     ..........................................   42
C.  Production Estimates        ..................................  42
D. Marketing       .............................................   42
E.  Prices     ................................................  43
VII.  BENEFITS, RISKS, AND JUSTIFICATION ........................  43
A.  Producers' and Social Benefits .................... ....  43
B.  BTM Financial Position ......    ..........................  44
C.  Government Benefits .......    ............................  45
D.  Economic Analysis .......    ..............................  45
E.  Risks      .................................................   46
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS .........  47
SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
Table  1.  Summary of Annual Project Costs
Table  2.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table  3.  Schedule of Participating Farmers by Category of Loan
Table  4.  Proposed Lending Terms and Corresponding Interest Rates
Table  5.  BTM-Sources and Uses of Funds
Table  6.  BTM-Projected Balance Sheets
Table  7.  BTM-Projected Profit and Loss Accounts
Table  8.  BTM-Net Increase in Project Lending
Table  9.  BTM-Financial Autonomy Ratio
Table 10.  BTM-Expenses and Income Compared to Working Assets
Table 11.  Project Economic Analysis
Chart  1.  BTM-Organization Chart
Chart  2.  BTM-Headquarters Organization Chart
LIST OF MATERIALS AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
MAP: Madagascar-First Agricultural Credit Project - IBRD 14922



MADAGASCAR
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Madagascar formally requested in July, 1978 that
the Bank Group finance an agricultural credit project through the National
Bank for Rural Development: Bankin'ny Tantsaha Mpamokatra (BTM). The
proposed Project would be the first agricultural credit project financed
by the Bank Group in Madagascar. The Project proposal was prepared by BTM
with extensive assistance from RMEA.  The Project preparation report was
transmitted to IDA with a request for financing in July, 1979.  This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Madagascar in
August/September 1979, composed of D. Lallement, R. Egli, H. Morice, and F.
Donahue (IDA), and H. Vieilhescaze (consultant). No major changes in Project
objectives or design were recommended following appraisal. However, the
Project description was modified in several respects following the appraisal
mission and a full analysis of data collected in the field. These changes are
as follows:  a) The computer component was deleted from the Project descrip-
tion. BTM had ordered a new computer and additional software for its head-
quarters prior to appraisal; the terms and description of the contract were
not made fully available to the mission. BTM made full provision for the
purchase of this computer from its profits for 1978, with the approval of its
Management Committee. The mission concluded that although BTM's computer
selection for headquarters was justified, since BTM did not follow Bank/IDA
guidelines and in the absence of a financing gap, the computer purchase
should not be considered as a Project cost; b) The financing of rain-fed
cotton cultivation was eliminated from the Project description. From informa-
tion currently available, it appears that the structure of the cotton sector
and the input-output, technical, and price ratios under rain-fed conditions
are not adequate to justify agricultural credit to small farmers; and c) The
recommended level of commissions to be paid by sub-borrowers to BTM is some-
what higher than proposed in the preparation report.
1.02      To date, the Bank Group has financed six agricultural development
Projects in Madagascar. Two loans and credits are fully disbursed: the
Lac Alaotra Irrigation Project (US$5.0 million), and the Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Project (US$2.8 million). Four other projects are under implementation:
the First Forestry Project (US$13 million) which is almost completed; the
Morondava Irrigation Project (US$15.3 million); the Village Livestock and
Rural Development Project (US$9.6); and the Mangoky Agricultural Development
Project (US$12.0 million). Several other projects are under preparation in
the forestry, livestock, irrigation, and crop production sub-sectors. A
technical assistance project for the development of the Plain of Antananarivo,
and a Second Forestry Project have been appraised. Experience with past
projects has been mixed. The Beef Cattle Development Project encountered very
serious problems, mostly managerial, while the Lac Alaotra project has been
generally quite successful, although the performance of SOMALAC, the Project
implementation agency for the Lake Alaotra Project has deteriorated consider-
ably since the completion of the Project Performance Audit Report. The
Morondava Project has also encountered serious managerial problems, while
implementation of the First Forestry Project has been quite successful. The



-2-
Village Livestock Project encountered serious problems at first, but implemen-
tation is now proceeding   quite satisfactorily.  The Mangoky project is still
at an early stage of implementation.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   GENERAL
2.01       Madagascar is an overwhelmingly rural country, with 85% of the
roughly 8.3 million population living in the rural areas. Agriculture
contributes about 40% of GDP, 80% of export earnings, and2supports more than
80% of the2national labor force. An estimated 369,000 km or 62% of the
592,000 km  total land area of Madagascar has some agricultural potentiel.
The average population depsity is relatively low, 14 inhabitants per km
nationally, and 23 per km on agricultural land. In most parts of the central
plateau (para 2.04) the population has probably reached saturation level but
large areas in the south and the west could accommodate larger populations if
more land were brought into production.
Performance of the Agricultural Sector
2.02      The growth of Madagascar's agricultural production over the past
10-15 years has been disappointing, with an average rate of increase somewhat
less than the population growth rate of 3% a year. Production figures for
selected crops since 1972 highlight a stagnation of rice production in parti-
cular, a decline in groundnut tobacco, and vanilla production, while cassava,
sugarcane, cotton and clove production increased substantially. Cotton
production appears to have stagnated in recent years. Production figures for
selected crops are summarized below ('000 tons): 1/
Food Crops        1972     1973      1974      1975     1976      1977      1978
Paddy             1,924    1,913    2,013    1,972    2,043    2,150    1,980
Cassava           1,210    1,170    1,260    1,300    1,370    1,410    1,500
Groundnuts           49        38       40        42        54       47        34
Industrial Crops
Sugarcane           850    1,040    1,320    1,380    1,290    1,350    1,370
Cotton               24        31       33        31        35       37        33
Tobacco               5         6        4         4         5        2         3
Export Crops
Coffee (green)       69.0      74.0     81.0      84.0      79.0     89.0      78.0
Cloves                6.0       4.0     18.0       5.0      13.0     14.0      15.0
Vanilla (dry)         1.9       1.8      1.4       1.8       1.6      1.0       1.4
Pepper                2.0       3.0      3.0       3.0       5.0      3.0       5.0
1/   Sources:  INSREE, MDRRA, Stabilization Funds, and HASYMA.



- 3 -
2.03      The generally weak performance of the agricultural sector as a
whole can largely be attributed to the low rate of growth of food crops and to
the stagnation of livestock production. Madagascar was a net exporter of rice
in the past but rice imports exceeded 190,000 t in 1978, while the volume
oL meaL exporL- has stagnated and even declined in recent years.  However, the
stagnation of agricultural production has been compensated in terms of total
value by favorable commodity prices for major exports (coffee, cloves).
Reasons for the slow growth of agriculture are complex, but among the key
contributing factors are (a) serious problems in the organization of marketing
services; (b) pricing policies; (c) a poor communication network which hinders
the provision of extension services, supply of inputs, and collection of
crops; (d) lack of agricultural credit, and (e) the profusion of institutions
with responsibility for extension and agricultural development, which have
limited staff, funds, and poorly defined policies. These problems and the
sector's disappointing performance should not, however, obscure the fact that
Madagascar's potential for agricultural development is very substantial. Many
commodities now being produced offèr excellent scope for expansion.  Intensi-
fication of production in virtually all parts of Madagascar could signi-
ficantly increase output, and new lands could be brought under cultivation,
particularly on the west coast where large areas of undeveloped fertile land
are available. In many cases the technical base for expansion or intensifi-
cation has been established, as a result of past intensive research and
trials. In other areas, notably rice, applied research on promising new
varieties is required.
Land Use
2.04      Madagascar has several distinct geographical regions, with sharp
contrasts in climate, topography and soils, and as a result, in land use
and production systems (para 2.05). Though the sector is striking in its
diversity, five major agricultural regions can be distinguished corresponding
more to zones of homogeneous production systens than to administrative
boundaries in most cases (Map IBRD No. 14922). The central plateau, which
includes highlands extending north-south in the center of the island, bisected
by small valleys and a few larger basins, is hilly. Climate ranges from
sub-tropical to temperate. The north has a tropical climate, and a relatively
varied topography. Many export crops are concentrated in this region. The
east coast is a high rainfall area, composed of a narrow strip of lowlands
bordered by a steep escarpment. Population is relatively dense and a wide
range of crops are cultivated. The west coast is a vast area of plains and
extensive river valleys. Although rainfall is generally below 1,000 mm a
year, rainfed cultivation is possible in most areas. The region offers
excellent natural pastures while the valleys have a rich potential for
irrigated crops or c1ltivation on the flood plains, but most areas remain
relatively underdeveloped and the population is sparse. The south is
Madagascar's least developed region; the climate is relatively arid and the
agricultural potential is limited by the soils and topography. The population
depends largely on traditional cattle rearing for their livelihood.
Farming and Production Systems
2.05      Agricultural production systems vary from sophisticated, mechanized
operations, for example on the large sugar cane and cotton estates in the



- 4 -
northwest, to very simple subsistence techniques. Traditional production
systems, based on rice as the staple food, are the most widespread among the
estimated 1.5 million farm families. Subsistence farming involves an estimated
83% of the total rural labor force, while modern farms and plantations (includ-
ing State Farms) account for slightly more than 2% of it; the remaining 15%
represent inL'.-mediate and casual employment. Farming techniques for small-
holders vary quite widely among regions, and within zones, according to crop.
For rice, they range from relatively sophisticated rice cultivation techniques,
involving elaborate terracing and water control systems in the valleys of the
highlands, to slash and burn cultivation on the hillsides (tanety); both
techniques may be used by the same farmer, especially on the Central Plateau
where lowlands and water are scarce. Livestock techniques are mainly based on
semi-nomadic cattle husbandry, but some beef and pig fattening is practiced
around the main cities. Production systems for cash crops also vary; coffee
is grown mostly in smallholder plantations, often in association with vanilla,
pepper or cocoa; cultivation of cloves, on the less fertile coastal upland
soils, is limited to picking.
2.06      Private enterprise dominated agricultural production in the past,
but the Government is now playing an increasingly active role. The only
remaining large private estates are in the northwest; they grow mostly cotton
and tobacco. Important recent moves are the nationalization of the sugar
industry in December 1976, and the Government's assumption of responsibility
for marketing of rice, other foodcrops and cattle, and for meat processing and
exports. The Malagasy government is emphasizing the role of state farms
under the Ministry of Rural Development, and is encouraging village govern-
ments to establish production cooperatives. To date, however, the progress of
collective farming has been much slower than stated objectives; about 40
cooperatives only have been created, representing a tiny fraction of farm
facilities. Newly-formed cooperatives and state farms do not yet play a
significant role in total agricultural production.
B. Government Strategy
2.07       The Government of Madagascar's broad objectives for rural develop-
ment are articulated in a Development Plan approved in November-December
1977. The plan includes a long-term strategy for the period 1978-2000, a
three year plan for 1978-80, and an investment plan for 1978. In essence,
!Madagascar's stated objectives for the year 2000 are to transform the society
along socialist lines and to develop a strong and self-sufficient basis for
development. The period 1978-84 is seen as the period to lay the foundations,
1985-92 for consolidation, while 1993-2000 are to be years of expansion and
growth. In the long-term plan, three goals are emphasized: (a) attainment of
self-sufficiency in food and development of basic industries, largely supplied
by the agricultural sector; (b) decentralization of all economic activities,
through the fokonolona system (para 2.09), and a more active and direct
Government role in the economy; and (c) narrowing the gap in distribution of
incomes, and promoting more balanced growth among regions. Agriculture is to
represent the basis of all developments, and will receive a major share of
investments. The plan emphasizes the linkage of Madagascar's economic,



-5-
political, social, and cultural development to the establishment of a social-
ist regime. For agriculture, the major proposed changes entail promotion of
an agrarian revolution and creation of socialist cooperatives; they would
involve Government control of cultivated land. In particular, estates or
plantations which have been lying idle for some time, or newly-developed land,
would be attributed only to socialist cooperatives. The plan foresees Govern-
ment control over basic industries, particularly those related to agriculture,
and states that at a later stage the fokonolona institutions and the socialist
cooperatives should manage these industries.
2.08       The 1978-80 plan includes specific objectives for agriculture.
Average growth rate of value added is expected to be 4.3%, less than other
sectors (rates for mines and energy and industry are estimated at 8.8% and
10.7% respectively). Value added of processed agricultural products such as
rice, sugar, fats, and textiles is forecast to grow at higher average rates
than the sector as a whole. In 1980 individual farms are expected to con-
tribute about 80% to value added generated in agriculture, cooperatives 10%,
and socialist enterprises 2.5%. About 15% of total investments in real terms
are assumed to be allocated to agriculture, most of it by the Government. The
plan recognizes that, in spite of the growth rates assumed for production,
employment possibilities in agriculture will increase very little, reaching
about 3.9 million in 1980, including subsistence farmers. Industrialization
is considered the only feasible long-term solution for the problem of unemploy-
ment. The Plan aims at improving rural living conditions to try to limit
migration to the cities.
C. Government Services
2.09      Fokonolona Institutions:  Since 1972 the Malagasy Government has
undertaken a major reorganization of local administration and government.
This reform involves the establishment of representative institutions at four
levels, replacing the territorial administration of provinces, prefectures,
sub-prefectures and cantons. The "fokonolona" system reflects an effort to
associate traditional institutions and practices with a more representative
and responsive local government, and to provide a vehicle for decentralization
of power as part of Madagascar's socialist revolution. The reform has been
implemented gradually, and many details of the new system, notably regarding
local finance, the role of cooperatives within the fokonolona system, and the
role of fokonolona institutions in the control of industry and parastatals,
are still being considered by the Government. However, the new entities are
assuming important responsibilities, notably for agricultural credit (para
3.27), for marketing of rice and other agricultural products, and planning
and implementation of small-scale development projects. The hierarchy of
fokonolona institutions comprises the Fokontany, which coincide roughly with
traditional village units (about 11,400 in all), the Firaissam-pokonolona,
at the former canton level (about 1,250), the Fivondronan-pokonolona, at the
former sub-prefecture level (about 110), and six Faritany, at the former
province level. The Ministries of the Interior and of Information and Ideo-
logy have primary responsibility for supporting the fokonolona institutions.



- 6 -
2.10      Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian Reform:  The Ministry of
Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA) is the central institution for
rural development programs. Up to 1979, the Ministry had four major operating
departments, which functioned quite autonomously and were organized separately
at a regional level.  In 1979, a far-reaching reorganiza~ion of MDRRA was
introduced, with the principle objective of proviàing better support to the
fokonolona institutions through decentralization. At the central level, only
two departments remain: the Department of Studies and Planning, responsible
for general planning and project preparation, and the Department of Rural
Development which will regroup four former operating departments plus the
Department of Agrarian Reform. Within the new Department of Rural Develop-
ment, seven services have responsibility for defining general policies; the
most important are crop production, animal production and irrigation. The
first stage of the decentralization process involves increased responsibili-
ties for the local services of MDRRA at the Faritany (province) level; the
Director of the Provincial Service now has full authority over the operating
services of MDRRA. Budgetary procedures are to be decentralized to the local
level in the future. Operating services are eventually to be completely
(iecentralized to the Fivondronan level, with the objective of using MDRRA
staff to support the new socialist structures, fokonolona institutions, state
Earms, and cooperatives more intensively. The reorganization of MDRRA began
effectively in mid-1979 with the reorganization of the central levels and is
now progressively expanding to provincial structures. The Ministry of Finance
has insisted to date that the reorganization involve no hiring of new staff.
Substantial staff changes from one service to another, and from Antananarivo
to field assignments, have resulted in some uncertainty and confusion.
2.11      Extension Services:  MDRRA has overall responsibility for extension
services. To date, its role has been relatively limited and restricted to
subsistence crops, partly because numerous other agencies are involved in the
complex arrangements for extension which vary from region to region and by
,crop. The performance of extension services for crops has been mixed;
for coffee and pepper they are good, while others are inadequate and in the
case of vanilla, completely absent. Livestock extension services are limited,
being particularly constrained by lack of adequate staff as well as by the
general constraints on the subsector. ODEMO, a development agency for the
mid-west and seven URERs (Unites regionales d'expansion rurale) provide
services to farmers in their areas of activity as does a UNDP rural develop-
ment program in the south. The URERs have concentrated their efforts on
foodcrops, particularly rice in the highlands, and have had generally good
results when inputs are available. Elsewhere extension services for rice
growers are the direct responsibility of MDRRA but their performance has been
constrained by lack of staff, logistical support, and inputs, particularly
fertilizer. Extension for other specific crops is usually the responsibility
of the appropriate parastatal operating under the aegis of MDRRA. Operation
Cafe Poivre (OCP), for instance, is responsible for major tree crops (coffee,
cloves, pepper and cocoa). It is constrained by delays in Government
budgetary allocations but, since its establishment in 1969, has been fairly
successful. The Office Malgache des Tabacs (OFMATA) has had a similarly good
record with its services to tobacco growers. HASYMA (formerly CFDT - para
2.29) is particularly well-organized and effective in the cotton subsector.



Extension services for sugarcane are divided between the Caisse de
Stabilisation du Prix de la Canne a Sucre (CSPCS) and MDRRA: CSPCS's service
seems adequate but MDRRA is hampered by lack of personnel and inputs.
2.12      Research:  Before 1972, agricultural resedrch was carried out by a
large number of semi-autonomous agencies, most managed by external (largely
French) institutions. All research now comes under the Ministry of Higher
Education and Scientifie Research and the research institutes have been
regrouped under one organization, CENRADERU (Center for Agricultural Research
for Rural Development) or FOFIFA. This is a semi-autonomous body responsible
for all agricultural research, including socio-economic analysis. It has few
formal links with extension services, as it comes under the central research
authority. It carries out a number of research schemes with direct support
from the Government budget; other projects are implemented on a contractual
basis. FOFIFA has been severely over-burdened with the wide range of respon-
sibilities and activities it has inherited, and suffers from a severe lack of
qualified staff and funds. Another important problem facing FOFIFA is the
lack of communication with international research organizations.
2.13      Training of agricultural staff to the secondary level is the
responsibility of the MDRRA, which is considering plans for rapid expansion of
facilities ranging from farmer training centers to agricultural secondary
schools.  The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research is respon-
sible for university level training and here also rapid expansion programs are
under review. Staff from certain specialized disciplines, notably agricul-
tural engineers and veterinarians, receive training abroad.
D. Production, Processing and Marketing of Principal Crops
Foodcrops - Rice
2.14      Production.  Rice, grown throughout Madagascar on about 50% of
permanently cultivated land, is the staple food; per capita rice consumption
(over 150 kg per year) is among the highest in the world. Since 1960, produc-
tion has increased on average by less than 3% a year; total production
appears to have stagnated since 1976 at around 2.0 million t of paddy a
year; yields average 1.8 t per hectare. Due to a growing deficit in domestic
production and severe marketing problems (para 2.15), imports have increased
from a neglible tonnage in 1970 to over 160,000 t a year in 1978 and 1979;
this represented about FMG 11.7 billion (US$56 million) or 15% of the total
value of exports, and more than 40% of export earnings from coffee. Rice
cultivation is mostly concentrated on the central plateau and in the north
west. Family rice fields are generally terraced, located on valley floors,
and range in size from a few ares to 5 ha, the average being about 1 ha and
often less in heavily populated zones. M4ost farmers produce a single crop per
year, relying almost exclusively on traditional production techniques and
water control systems. Average yields on the plateaux are about 1.5-2.0 t/ha.
Some increases in cultivated area have been achieved by bringing less suitable
hillsides ("tanety') into cultivation, generally under a slash-and-burn
pattern; initial yields are about 1 t/ha but they decrease rapidly unless
fertilizer is applied. Organized irrigation schemes developed or supported by



- 8 -
the Government account for 20 to 30% of land under rice. These schemes vary
in size, complexity, organization and systems of land tenure. In general,
however, the effectiveness of these schemes is seriously impaired by poor
maintenance, inadequate irrigation and drainage systems, and serious land
tenure problems; land is underutilized and yields are little above those of
traditional rice areas. In the more sophisticated schemes, two crops of rice
a year are produced and yields per crop exceed 2.5 t/ha but could easily reach
4-5 t/ha with appropriate management. The largest and most productive irriga-
tion schemes are in the Lac Alaotra basin and in the Betsiboka valley around
Marovoay, south of Majunga.
:2.15     Marketing and Processing.  Most rice produced is consumed by farm
families; surpluses are sold only in good harvest years. The bulk of marketed
production, and all luxury long-grain rice still sold in export markets
(1,100 t), comes from a few large irrigation schemes. Rice marketing and
processing were in the hands of private traders until the 1972 revolution;
rice marketing has since been nationalized. From 1973-77, the Societe
d'Interet National des Produits Agricoles (SINPA), a parastatal company, had a
monopoly on marketing, collection, imports, processing and distribution of
ail agricultural products including rice. SINPA's marketing operations
encountered serious problems, however, and in 1977, the Government assumed
direct responsibility for rice marketing. Under the current system, Madagascar
is divided into 12 marketing regions. Different agencies have responsibility
for rice marketing in these regions under the general guidance of a marketing
committee which also organizes storage or shipment of rice to deficit regions.
SINPA retains responsibility for the largest area, but recently-nationalized
trading firms and other parastatal agencies have been assigned marketing
responsibilities. SINPA is also in charge of carrying out the rice import
operations negotiated by the Government; it sells rice to customers directly
or through licensed traders at the Fokontany level. The fokonolona institu-
tions have primary responsibility for collecting paddy within their territorial
jurisdiction, selling it to the authorized marketing agency and receiving a
commission (FMG 2/kg paddy). The rice marketing system is far from satis-
factory; weak management, 1/ lack of trucks, bad roads, and poor operation of
the port and railway facilities have made the supply of rice to deficit areas
unreliable and Government and the Army are increasingly involved in basic
food marketing and distribution. The total quantity of paddy marketed
through official channels ranged between 217,000 and 309,000 t in the years
1970-1978, representing an estimated 11% to 16% of total production. The
Ministry of Economy and Commerce estimates that about 40% of all marketed
paddy now goes through unofficial channels; prices vary widely but are well
above official levels. Numerous paddy mills are scattered throughout
Madagascar, many of which have been nationalized and are operated by SINPA or
other parastatals, while others are still operated by private traders, with
charges fixed by the Government. There is excess capacity in existing mills
for the current volume of marketed production.
1/   The value of physical losses of paddy and rice by SINPA was estimated for
1977 at FMG 1 billion for paddy collection and FMG 0.4 billion for rice
distribution, corresponding to 26,000 t paddy and 7,000 t rice respec-
tively.



- 9 -
2.16      Prices and Subsidies.  The Government fixes paddy and rice prices
at the producer and retail levels as well as margins for marketing, processing
and wholesale transactions. The producer price of paddy is currently FMG
38/kg and the retail price of rice is FMG 55/kg; these prices apply throughout
Madagascar, and involve a direct subsidy to customers of about FMG 25 to 30/kg
on locally produced rice. Only FMG 15/kg is reimbursed to marketing agencies
from an equalization fund (Fonds de Perequation) managed by the Ministry of
Finance and Planning, which pools resources from crop specific stabilization
funds. The Government is considering an increase in producer and consumer
prices in the near future.
Groundnuts
2.17      Groundnuts are grown throughout Madagascar, generally on compara-
tively poor soils. Cultivation methods, on individual lots averaging 0.3 ha,
remain mostly traditional and yields are around 1.0 t/ha. Production is
expected to increase to about 40,000 t in 1979 after a sharp decline from an
average 45,000 t from 1972-1977 to 34,000 t in 1978. Traditional private
marketing circuits have been replaced in recent years by government-owned
marketing companies (para 2.15) which face coordination problems. Very
serious transport problems and an increase in on-farm consumption resulted in
a steady decline of marketed volume to 24,000 t in 1978, of which 1,200 t was
exported. Oil mills now face serious supply problems, and Madagascar is
heavily dependent on imports of fats and oils, valued at FMG 2.2 billion in
1978 and FMG 2.3 billion (US$11 million) in the first six months of 1979.
Producer prices for groundnuts and ex-factory prices for oil are fixed
by the Government, currently at FMG 45/kg and FMG 278/kg respectively. With
present low yields, producer prices do not provide an adequate incentive and
Government plans for a sizeable increase in planted areas from 40,000 ha to
64,000 ha and for self-sufficiency in oil by 1990, will be difficult to
achieve.
Other Food and Subsistence Crops
2.18      The cultivated area under roots and tubers, particularly cassava,
has been expanding in response to population growth. Yields, however, continue
to be low, stagnating around 5t/ha. Production of cassava reached 1.6 million
tons in 1978; the limited amounts marketed for industrial uses are sold for
about FMG 15/kg dry cassava. Production in 1978 of other crops, which are
mainly consumed on the farm, is summarized below:
Crop                          Area         Production
(ha)          (tons)
Sweet Potatoes                59,000          265,000
Potatoes                      24,000          115,000
Saonjo (Taro)                 12,000           76,000
Maize                        110,000          115,000
Beans (dry)                   42,000           37,000
Butter Beans                  25,000            8,000
Source: MDRRA.



- 10 -
It: is estimated that 30% of maize production is used for animal feed.
About 6,000 t of butter beans were exported in 1978 for a total FOB
value of FMG 970 million (US$4.4 million).
Export Crops - Coffee
2.19      Production and Exports.  Coffee is Madagascar's foremost export
commodity, accounting for about 36% of total export earnings in 1978. There
are an estimated 350,000 coffee growers (10% of the rural labor force) cul-
tLvating 230,000 ha of coffee, and 30% of the rural active population is
directly or indirectly involved in coffee production. Production rose at an
annual rate of about 5.2% between 1970 and 1975, owing largely to the efforts
oE OCP, (para 2.12). About half of this increase was due to expansion of the
area under coffee. Since 1975, the planted area has been steady at around
230,000 ha, and 1978 production of 78,000 t was slightly below the 1974 level.
The domestic market, including on-farm consumption, accounted for 16,000 t in
1974, 25,000 t in 1977 and 30,000 t in 1978 with erratic year-to-year varia-
tions. Arabica was the first variety introduced during the 19th century; it
was replaced in the early 20th century by Robusta, but some attempts are being
nade to re-introduce Arabica in some parts of the country.  Coffee is grown
mainly on the east coast, south of Vatomandry, where it is the most important
cash crop, providing 35% to 50% of family cash revenues, and in the north
where it is cultivated both on the east and west coasts. In this latter area,
coffee accounts for 15% to 30% of family cash revenues and is under strong
competition from financially more attractive cash crops such as cloves and
vanilla. Coffee plots are generally small, averaging about 0.5 ha, and
maintenance is limited; coffee is most often grown in association with pepper,
vanilla or cocoa. Use of inputs such as fertilizers is limited. Average
yields now stand around 0.35 t/ha, and are likely to decrease on existing
plantations unless a strong regeneration effort is made.
2.20      Marketing.  Marketing channels are characterized by the coexistence
and interpenetration of parastatals (para 2.15) and traditional systems,
based on bush collectors and private trading firms. The Government's policy
is to strengthen the role of cooperatives, local government entities and
parastatals in the marketing channels; new regulations were published in
July 1978 but they have not yet resulted in any effective changes. In most
cases, bush collectors handle primary collection and transport coffee to a
primary storage point accessible, at least in the dry season, by road. They
generally collect other crops and act as general merchandise traders for the
trading company; their average charge of FMG 5/kg may climb to FMG 50/kg under
exceptionally difficult transport conditions. With a few regional exceptions,
farmers hand-pound dry cherries and sell green coffee. Trading companies
pick up coffee at primary storage points, transport it to their stores and
arrange for export. Most companies must rely on independent transporters,
or even on the Army for transport, because of the deteriorating road network
and the reluctance of transporters to accept official tariffs. Export con-
tracts are negotiated at the central Government level through the Caisse de
Stabilisation des Prix du Cafe (CSPC), a price stabilization fund. Export
operations are a monopoly of parastatals, which pay the difference between the
realized FOB price and the official price guaranteed to exporters to CSPC.
The CSPC determines the margins for losses, transport, storage and processing
costs, and special discounts to fokonolona institutions.



- il -
2.21      Official producer prices are FMG 100/kg for dry cherries and 185/kg
for coffee beans (plus a systematic quality premium of FMG 5/kg), but actual
prices are often slightly higher. The guaranteed export price for export
companies is FMG 275/kg (with slight variations according to port) which,
after deduction of various taxes anid lŽvies, provîd OSEC with a considerable
margin (about FMG 300/kg at current export prices). At present, official
producer prices do not make coffee competitive with cloves or vanilla for
which producers receive a greater share of world market prices (paras 2.23 and
2.25); this and harvest collection problems have discouraged regeneration of
old plantations and new planting in recent years and resulted in stagnation of
production. However, natural conditions and foreign demand for Malagasy
coffee are both favorable to an increase in production.
Cloves
2.22      With a 20% contribution to total export earnings, cloves are
Madagascar's second most important export crop. Production is concentrated
on the east coast, north of Tamatave. Most plantations are small (under
1 ha) and have traditionally been concentrated on less fertile upland soils,
but have been recently extended onto more fertile plots formerly under
other cash crops. Total planted area was 45,000 ha in 1978. Production
varies widely from year to year but has shown a general upward trend (para
2.02); in 1978 it reached 15,000 t, of which 13,000 t was exported; 1,000 t
of leaf distillate was also exported. Picking of cloves takes place only in
favorable years (about once every three years for a given tree); it relies
largely on seasonal labor, often coming from neighboring cities like Toamasina,
with a traditional sharing of the crop between growers and pickers. Marketing
and export channels and procedures are similar to those for coffee, with the
Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix du Girofle (CSPG) playing the same role as
the CSPC (para 2.20).
2.23      The official producer price is FMG 340/kg.  The guaranteed export
price (FMG 455/kg) takes into account collection costs by bush collectors and
the discounts to fokonolona institutions; even after deduction of taxes
and levies, CSPG posts a very substantial margin (about FMG 600/kg of exported
cloves at current world market prices). Little work is needed for cultivation
and growers find the producer price satisfactory. Planted areas are expanding
steadily, with cloves being cultivated in association with coffee or even
replacing it. Prospects for export markets are good in the short term, due in
particular to the steady expansion of the Indonesian market. However, since
the production of existing plantations will probably reach 20,000 t by 1985
further expansion of the planted area should be considered cautiously.
Vanilla
2.24      Production.  Vanilla is grown on the northeast coast, north of
Maroantsetra, in particular in the region of Antalaha, by an estimated 70%
of farmers of that area. It is often cultivated in association with other
cash crops, namely coffee, and cloves. Average growers have about 1,000
plants on 0.50 ha, producing 150 kg of green vanilla a year. Total production
has been following a general downward trend since 1972 and was estimated at
about 5,000 t green vanilla in 1978. This decrease in production is largely
attributable to the low level of official producer prices, and also to the
destruction of some of the plantations by cyclones in 1973 and 1977.



- 12 -
2.25      Although marketing channels are organized along the same lines as
for other crops, private traders and processors continue to play an important
role because the quantities involved are small and must be processed almost
immediately after picking, which calls for operational flexibility. About
60% of production is dried by growers, who sell it as bulk dry vanilla. The
remaining 40% is processed by about 15 private processor-storers who cure,
sort out and pack vanilla for export, using mostly traditional processing
techniques. Export procedures are similar to those for other crops except
that no export monopoly exists; contracts are signed at the Government level
through the Caisse de Stabilisation des Prix de la Vanille (CSPV), with
potential buyers proposed by private exporters. Official producer prices are
FMG 500/kg green vanilla and FMG 2,811/kg dry vanilla (conversion rate 1 kg
dry vanilla to 4.6 kg green vanilla). However, due to the high level of
present world market prices triggered by the general shortage of natural
vanilla, trade operators were prepared to pay much higher producer prices
for the 1979 crop, up to 1,000 FMG/kg green vanilla and 5,000 FMG/kg dry
vanilla. This is above the guaranteed export price (FMG 3,725/kg) but a wide
margin will still remain between guaranteed and actual export prices, as
current FOB export prices for first quality dry vanilla are above US$45/kg
(FMG 9,450). World market prospects are generally viewed as good. Provided
long-term credit is made available for new planting, promising possibilities
therefore exist for redeveloping vanilla production.
Pepper
2.26      Production.  Pepper is generally grown in the same zones as coffee,
and major producing regions are the East Coast, the Sambirano delta in the
northeast and Nosy Be. Except for a few large plantations (e.g. the 400 ha
estate in Nosy Be), plots are small, 0.1 to 0.2 ha, and pepper is mostly
cultivated in association with coffee. Although planted areas have been
decreasing in recent years, average yields have increased to over 700 kg/ha.
Total production has also shown a slight increase, reaching 5,200 t in 1978,
for a planted area of 7,200 ha. Research remains limited, and no solution has
yet been found for collar rot problems affecting pepper plants in the north-
east, in particular in Nosy Be. Barring these problems, prospects for pepper
production are promising.
2.27      Marketing channels for black pepper are similar to those for other
export crops, with a monopoly for export operations granted to parastatals.
Parastatals' operations on primary markets already account for about 60% of
total collections. The Bureau de Commercialisation et de Stabilisation des
Prix du Poivre (BCSP) is the pepper stabilization fund. Statistical informa-
tion received from BCSP appears rather unreliable, e.g., authorized exports in
1978 (about 1,570 t) were well under quantities collected (2,310 t). Current
FOB export prices for black pepper (about US$2.0/kg or FMG 420/kg) are well
above the guaranteed export price (FMG 296/kg) and the official producer price
(FMG 200/kg). The pepper production is increasingly processed and marketed
as green pepper, the exports of which reached 1,370 t in 1978. Producer and
export prices of green pepper are not subject to rigid regulation and are
considered by growers as more attractive than for black pepper. Four private
traders and the Vohimasina state farm operate on the export market; BCSP
controls their operations only through the issue of export licences, and the
collection of levies.



- 13 -
Cocoa
2.28      Production.  Cocoa production is limited to the northwest coast in
the Sambirano delta and the Itasy valley; total planted area is estimated at
about 5,000 ha, and production at about 2,000 t of dry cocoa. The development
of cocoa as a smallholder crop dates only from the mid-sixties; it is esti-
mated that 2,000 smallholders grow no more than 500 ha in total, mostly in
association with coffee. Due to the high quality of soils and suitable
climate, natural conditions for cocoa are exceptionally favorable in the
producing areas. Marketing channels are similar to those for coffee with a
dominant role played by parastatals. About 500 t are delivered to the Robert
chocolate mill in Antananarivo; the remainder of marketed production is
exported.  Official producer prices (FMG 85/kg for fresh beans, and FMG 230/kg
for dry beans) are well below guaranteed export prices (FMG 417/kg). Prospects
for world prices are good; the development of smallholder cocoa production
depends mainly on the provision of seedlings and long-term credit.
Industrial Crops - Cotton
2.29      Cotton is produced almost exclusively on the west coast, on flood
plains as water recedes, under rainfed conditions, and with full irrigation.
Cotton production increased rapidly during the past decade, from about
9,000 t in 1967 to 37,000 t in 1977. However, production has since then been
declining and reached 30,000 t in 1979. HASYMA estimates that they will only
collect about 25,000 t from its 1980/81 cropping season. Total planted area
is about 18,000 ha; yields range from 1.0 t/ha on dry land to 2.5 t/ha on
irrigated or on regularly flooded area. Private companies, operating princi-
pally in the northwest, still contribute nearly 50% of total cotton production,
but their share is declining. The share of state farms has also diminished to
about 12%; smallholders produced 42% of cotton in 1977, compared to about 28%
in 1971. Smallholder cotton has predominated in the southwest, around Tulear
and Ihosy, mainly under rainfed conditions. The "Compagnie Francaise pour le
Developpement des Fibres Textiles" (CFDT) has played a major role in the
development of cotton production in Madagascar since 1956; CFDT-Madagascar was
established in 1973, as a Malagasy corporation with principal responsibility
for seed multiplication and distribution and for marketing, including purchase
of all seed cotton and ginning, as well as sale of fiber and seeds to local
manufacturers. It also organized distribution of inputs and aerial crop
treatments, provided seasonal credit, organized extension services to small
farmers, and directly managed two Government farms. Inputs and services are
advanced to farmers, charges and interest are deducted from payments for seed
cotton. CFDT - Madagascar was replaced in 1978 by a mixed capital company
(owned 70% by the Government and 30% by CFDT) known as HASYMA, which has
continued to provide the same services. In Tulear Faritany, extension and
marketing for cotton was undertaken, up to 1979, by FIFATO, a regional devel-
opment parastatal, but as FIFATO's performance was poor, leading to sharp
declines in production, HASYMA assumed its responsibilities for cotton in
1979.
2.30      HASYMA is entirely responsible for seed cotton marketing, exporting
of cotton fiber 1/, and processing production in its own gins located in
1/   These were minimal during the past few years (920 t in 1978); imports
of cotton fiber for Madagascar's textile industry also remained limited
(820 t in 1978).



- 14 -
Majunga, Ambahikely, Tulear, Ambilobe and Morondava. The capacity of HASYMA's
gins is about 48,000 t of seed cotton per year; they were operating at about
75% of capacity in 1978 when fiber yield was 38%, or 14,300 t. Cotton fiber
is processed by three major textile companies (SOTEMA, COTONA and SOMACO): an
important new mill in Tulear (SOMATEX) with a capacity of 18,000 t of fiber
per year, is to begin operation in 1980. Most textile products dre sold
locally but the share of exports in textile production increased sharply from
15% to 25% over the past three years. Cotton seeds are processed in five oil
mills; aging equipment and use of an outdated technical process which yields
under 10% of oil are major constraints.
2.31      The purchase price of seed-cotton is fixed by the Government,
normally on an annual basis, after consultation with HASYMA and the textile
producers. The 1979/80 price was fixed at FMG 91/kg for seed cotton of first
quality delivered to the ginnery. The price paid for first-quality cotton
fiber ex-factory is FMG 268/kg. Cotton seeds ex-factory are currently sold
to oil mills at FMG 22/kg, out of which FMG 4/kg is for HASYMA charges and
FMG 18/kg for the Cotton Stabilization Fund, which also receives a levy of
FMG 30/kg cotton fiber from the textile companies; its total revenues are used
to provide a discount, currently set at 50%, on the cost of inputs to small-
holders cultivating less than 5 ha. The development of cotton planting has
been due to the efficiency of the marketing and service network, and to the
timely cash payments granted by HASYMA; the analysis of farm budgets, however,
suggests that producer prices are currently too low to generate reasonable
cash incomes under dryland smallholder farming conditions.  In addition, a
shift towards more profitable crops (such as tobacco in the Mampikony area) is
taking place in some regions; moreover, political uncertainties have restrained
investments on large private plantations. The Government objective of substan-
tial increases in cotton planting (7,200 ha in six years) to support the
expansion of the textile industry will be very difficult to achieve unless
additional incentives are provided to farmers. It also appears that a full
review of the sector is required before further investments are undertaken. A
review of the cotton subsector has been initiated by IDA. This issue was
further discussed during Credit negotiations.
Sugar
2.32      Production of sugarcane is centered around four sugar mills located
in the northwest, at Ambilobe, Namahia and Nosy Be, and on the east coast
(Brikaville); total planted area is 37,000 ha. Production has stagnated since
1974; in 1978, it was 1,370,000 t of sugarcane, with an average yield of
about 37 t/ha, and 115,000 t of sugar. About 85% of production is from the
Government-controlled companies which operate the sugar mills. The remaining
170,000 t of cane are produced by about 1,700 smallholders, 1,500 of whom are
located around the SIRAMA 1/ mill in Ambilobe. In addition, an estimated
170,000 t tons of cane are grown on scattered tiny plots for direct consumption
or artisanal processing es raw sugar or as Betsabetsa, a local beverage.
Large government-owned estates such as SIRAMA use modern cultivation techniques,
often under irrigation. Smallholder cultivation remains mostly traditional,
with limited use of irrigation and inputs such as selected varieties and
1/t SIRAMA is Madagascar's largest sugar company.



- 15 -
fertilizers. Modernization has so far been hampered mostly by lack of
agricultural credit. Government-owned companies provide outgrowers with a
limited supply of selected plants but there is no definite planning for
cutting and transport of smallholder production and this results in serious
organizational and management problems both for oiitgrowers and the mills.
2.33      Sugar companies purchase cane from outgrowers and sell sugar to
parastatals for marketing. The price structure, which takes account of
quality differentials, is set and controlled by the CSPCS. Revenues from
ex-mill sugar sales are shared between the mills (one-third) and the growers
(two-thirds); molasses and other by-products are kept by the mills for extra
revenues. Ex-mill prices for refined white sugar in 1978 were between
*        FMG 71.5/kg and FMG 80.5/kg, according to quality, with corresponding retail
prices of FMG 115/kg and FMG 125/kg. Except for a 10,000 t quota to the EEC,
quantities available for export are sold at world market prices. Producer
prices in 1978, varying with sugar content of cane, were abou: FMG 4,100/t
in Ambilobe, of which an average of FMG 1,800/t was earmarked for cane
cutting and for transport to the mill. Producer prices are viewed as attrac-
tive and growers are eager to increase planted area and production. Domestic
consumption of sugar, now over 90,000 t a year, is steadily increasing by 7% a
year and quantities available for export are therefore declining. Medium-term
export prospects are good, and the Government objective of increasing produc-
tion is sound, provided the efficiency of processing industries is maintained.
Possibilities for production increases are good in smallholdings, where yields
are still low and can be improved through the modernization of cultivation
techniques.
Livestock
2.34      Cattle are the traditional symbol of Madagascar and much of the
population is heavily dependent on livestock production. Madagascar has
important natural advantages for livestock production; the animal health
situation is comparatively good and there are vast areas of natural pasture,
especially in the south east and middle west regions. The national cattle
herd, currently estimated at about 10.1 million head is virtually all raised
on an extensive basis, and is mostly owned by traditional herders who use
almost no modern techniques and make minimal cash investments in livestock.
Steer stall fattening is practised ("boeufs de fosse") generally around
major cities; there is a serious shortage of cut fodder, and animal feeding is
based on farm by-products. Cattle form an integral part of traditional
farming methods in many areas of Madagascar, notably on the central plateau
and the east coast. Due to the lack of a clear national livestock program and
low quality of the genetic stock, herd productivity remains low, and total
meat production is probably stagnating. There is excellent potential for
other forms of livestock production, which are still underdeveloped, in parts
of Madagascar, notably pigs, poultry and dairy; the Middle West region, west
of Tananarive, in particular, offers good potential for mixed farming.
2.35      A major part of meat consumption takes place during traditional
family festivities, and only a small part of the herd enters commercial
channels (perhaps 3-4% a year). While marketed supplies remain fixed,
domestic demand has increased rapidly causing exports to traditional markets
to decline. Madagascar has a quota for duty-free exports to the EEC under



- 16 -
the Lome Convention. Draft oxen constitute an important share in livestock
trade, and are generally available on the market. In addition, complex
traditional arrangements exist between livestock-owners and farmers for
seasonal rental of draft oxen and steers, e.g., for the stamping of rice
fields. Government's recent investments in the livestock subsector have
focused on export slaughterhouses, and three large new plants are now operating
(Tananarive, Morondava and Majunga), often well below their nominal capacity.
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND THE NATIONAL BANK
FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT - BTM
A. Credit Sources and Policies in Madagascar
Reorganization of the Banking Sector and Credit Policies
3.01      Historically, the banking sector in Madagascar was dominated by
four commercial, largely foreign-owned banks, a national development Bank,
the Banque Nationale Malgache de Developpement (BNM) and the Central Bank of
Madagascar. The four commercial banks were nationalized in 1975, and the
banking sector was substantially reorganized beginning in 1977 (under provi-
sions of a law of December 27, 1976). Under the new system, which is now
largely operational, the Central Bank retains its dominant role, and the five
banks have been reorganized as three specialized, wholly government-owned
banks for three principal economic sectors: agriculture, industry, and
commerce. These are the National Bank for Rural Development (BTM), for
agriculture, the Industrial Development Bank (BNI) for industry, and the
Commercial Bank (BFV). A general Orientation Council for the Banking and
Financial Sector (Conseil d'Orientation du Sector Bancaire et Financier)
is to be established to provide general policy guidance for banking operations.
The reorganization of the banks is still underway, and the three banks still
operate in all three sectors; the general institutions called for in the law
(notably the Orientation Council, and the regional credit committees) are not
yet fully operational.
3.02      National credit policies are in principle established by the Central
Bank.  They consist largely of limitations on credit targets for each bank,
ceilings on rediscounting facilities, requirements for advance Central Bank
authorization for loans in excess of FMG 100 million, a mandatory allocation
of 6.5% of short-term resources to finance medium-term credit, a mandatory
allocation of 15% of short-term resources to finance Malagasy nationals, and
regulation of interest rates. It is expected that the Orientation Council for
the Banking and Financial Sector, when it is established, will play an import-
ant role in the definition and monitoring of credit policies.
Agricultural Credit
3.03      Traditionally, formal credit for agricultural development in
Madagascar has been largely restricted to the modern agricultural sector;
the well-developed commercial banking system has provided development and
seasonal credit for large farms and commercial enterprises. Credit for small



- 17 -
farmers, however, has been very limited, with the exception of certain regional
development projects where smallholder credit has been a specific objective.
Farmers have traditionally sought credit from private money lenders, and while
it has been quite widely available, effective fees and interest rates are
generally very high. Government efforts to provide agricultural credit for
smallholder agricultural date from the early 1950's, and from 1963 most
programs were focused through BNM, which lent both to regional develop-
ment agencies and to farmers' associations. However, the Government has
attempted since 1977, to increase the availability of credit to small farmers
and local government institutions which represent them, notably through the
creation of the BTM and the rapid expansion of its recent lending for small-
holder agriculture (paras 3.26).
3.04      Government policy on such issues as conditions on lending to
individuals, cooperatives and local governments, and on default and guarantee
procedures are still being reviewed at all levels. There is pressure to
expand credit availability rapidly, with the risk of high default and loss
levels, and to ease lending criteria, namely to smallholder farmers and
agricultural cooperatives. There is debate over whether to increase lending
to new institutions, notably the new socialists enterprises and cooperatives,
while their viability is still untested. These issues have been discussed
with Government officials and were further discussed during credit negotia-
tions. BTM has been deeply involved in this national debate on credit
policies, and has come under some pressure from the Government to expand its
portfolio rapidly, to establish large numbers of new branches, and until
recently to ease its lending criteria. However, BTM has been quite successful
in coping with these pressures.
B. The National Bank for Rural Development - BTM
Institutional Aspects
3.05      BTM was established on January 1, 1977 by Ordinance 76-046 published
on December 27, 1976 which enacted the reorganization of Madagascar's banking
system (para 3.01). BTM took over the physical facilities of the Banque
Malgache d'Escompte et de Credit (BAMES) and the loan and investment portfolio
of the Agricultural Credit Directorate of the former BNM. Its mandate is to
promote rural development and to favor the mobilization of national savings;
it is a socialist enterprise regulated by the Charter on Socialist Enterprises.
BTM's statutes were approved by Decree 76-440 published on December 27, 1976
of the Ministry for Finance and Planning. By law, the share-capital of BTM
can be subscribed by the Government, fokonolona institutions (para 2.09),
socialist institutions, Government institutions and enterprises. The Govern-
ment must hold a minimum of 51% of the shares. At present, BTM's share
capital of FMG 2 billion (US$9.5 million) is owned by the Government (90%) and
the Central Bank (10%) and is divided into 200,000 shares of FMG 10,000.
BTM's share-capital can be increased either by capitalizing its reserves or by
issuing new shares. In the latter case, priority would be given to new
shareholders. Any capital increase must be approved by the Orientation
Council for the Banking and Financial Sector (para. 3.01) by a two-thirds
majority of the votes. On balance, BTM is a sound, well-managed financial



- 18 -
institution. During the current period of rapid transition, BTM has maintained
the well-defined lending policies, standards, and procedures developed by BNM,
as well as a high quality portfolio; this can be expected to continue in the
fiiture.
3.06      Management.  Until the Orientation Council for the Ba<i:>ing and
Financial Sector is established, BTM will be managed, as it has been since
1977, by a Management Committee common to all three banks, BTM, BNI and BFV
(para. 3.01) which appears to have functioned satisfactorily in the transition
period since the reorganization of the banking sector. The Committee is
chaired by the Minister for Finance and Planning. Its members, nominated by
Cabinet Decree, include the Director General and the Director for Finance of
the Central Bank. When a separate Management Committee for BTM is established,
it should include representatives of the Government, elected delegates of
BTM's staff, and appointed representatives of shareholders other than the
Government. The Management Committee currently meets on an ad hoc basis to
act on BTM's most important lending operations, and members meet frequently
with BTM's senior management.
3.07      A General Manager, nominated by Decree of the Prime Minister, is
reponsible for BTM's day-to-day management. He is accountable to the Committee
for the administrative, financial, technical, and commercial performance of
the bank. He has discretionary powers to authorize loans up to FMG 100
million (para 3.16). The General Manager is assisted by two deputies: one
for administration and one for studies and planning. Under the law establishing
BTM, Credit Committees at the various levels of the fokonolona system, including
representatives of the fokonolona institutions, socialist cooperatives and
bank staff members are to play an important part in BTM activities, but this
has not yet been clearly defined.
3.08      BTM Organization.  BTM is largely decentralized, reflecting its
rural vocation and its recent expansion into new areas. Its infrastructures,
inherited from predecessor institutions, are widely distributed through the
country (Map IBRD 14922). BTM is the bank most widely represented in Madagas-
car. Although offices are scattered throughou.t the country, the central
plateau and the east coast tend to be best served (see Map). BTM's structure
(Chart 1) comprises its headquarters in Antananarivo, six Groups (one in each
faritany), 41 branches, and 26 field offices. The headquarters and the Groups
assume administrative and control responsibilities, while the branches and
field offices perform operational activities.  The difference between the
latter two is largely a function of their volume of business. The field
office is the smallest unit. It performs all banking activities but is above
all responsible for the rural credit program - FMR (para. 3.26). Its staff is
usually limited to three officers: a director, a field officer, and an
accountant, plus a cashier and secretary. The branch normally includes four
departments: cashier, loans, accounting, and administration. In the larger
branches the portfolio is managed as a separate department, and when trans-
actions with foreign countries are substantial they are managed by a separate
department (mostly in Antananarivo). Branch staff can be as many as 30-35
officers. The Group has no operational responsibilities. It supervises some
of the branches activities and has some decision-making power in credit
approvals which speeds up the processing cycle. Its staff ranges from three
to eight officers, of whom one or two controllers supervise the processing of
the branches' accounts and assist them when needed.



- 19 -
3.09      BTM headquarters in Antananarivo are currently organized into three
departments: Operations, Administration and Accounting, and Studies and
Planning (Chart 2). The Operations Department was until recently under the
responsibility of the Deputy Manager for Studies and Planning but has recently
been placed directly under the responsibility of the General Manager. It
comprises three Credit Divisions, each headed by a Director. Each Credit
Division is responsible for following the operations of two of the six Groups
and, in particular, for monitoring the branches' cash flows and outstanding
loans, and for indentifying new clients. The Administration and Accounting
Department comprises five divisions: Personnel, Accounting, Data Processing,
Financial Control, the Bursar's Office and Archives. The Studies and Planning
Department includes two divisions in addition to the Studies and Planning
division: the Treasurer's Office and the Claims and Information Office. The
terms of reference for the Studies and Planning Division need to be clarified
(para 5.02).
3.10      Staffing and Staff Training.  BTM has been able to attract and
retain qualified staff; in 1979 it had about 1,230 officers, including senior
managers. About 150 officers were at headquarters, 40 in the Group offices,
and about 1,030 in the branches and field offices. Staff increased by 2% a
year in 1979 and is expected to continue at that rate in the coming years. In
general, the professional competence of BTM staff has been satisfactory for
the level and type of activities it has maintained since it was established.
The majority of senior and mid-level managers are well trained and/or have a
long practical experience in banking. About half of these officers are at
headquarters or at BTM's main branch in Antananarivo. Other support staff
include a large number of officers well-versed in the routine handling of bank
operations. At the time of the transfer of personnel from BAMES and BNM, most
staff were offered refresher courses. BTM management is nonetheless aware of
the need to strengthen its staff if they are to expand the Bank's activities.
BTM is recruiting some agricultural engineers to assist with the appraisal
of its agricultural portfolio. It also needs to strengthen its capacity in
financial analysis, financial controls, and data processing.  Refresher
training for middle-management staff, especially in agricultural and rural
credit, ranging from credit appraisal to credit administration and accounting,
is required. BTM has initiated a limited staff training program which consists
of refresher courses at the National Vocational Training Center, overseas
scholarships in credit, financial analysis and data processing and specialized
training with its foreign correspondents, and in-house seminars by senior
management. This program, however, does not appear to have been systematic-
ally designed, and assistance in this area is proposed under the Project (para
4.11).
3.11      Infrastructure and Logistical Support.  BTM inherited the well
developed buildings of BAMES and part of BNM's offices. Field offices are
generally well located and equipped. Management appears to have a sound
and pragmatic approach to expansion, and has resisted recommendations for more
rapid growth of physical infrastructure. Rural branches are modest and
accessible to the rural clientele. Transport is generally available for
field staff, although motorbikes are not always sufficient, in particular in
the newer areas of activity where distances to cover are great, and security,
at times, a problem. For such cases, the mobile banks included in the Project



- 20 -
proposal (para 4.12) appear to be a judicious solution. BTM's present data
processing equipment is limited. The IBM 3/15, used to process all accounts
and financial statements has proved too small for the volume of work of the
much larger BTM. BTM has now ordered an IBM 4331/Jl to be installed at
headquarters by the end of 1980. BTM is considering decentralizing its data
processing capacity. This would be premature, as the configuration of the
4331/Jl will give it excess capacity for at least two to three years and in
many areas, energy sources are not always reliable, and servicing facilities
are very limited. Prior to any decentralization, an in-depth study should be
carried out to determine where local conditions would be suitable for new data
processing equipment; assistance in this area is proposed under the Project
(para 4.13).
BTM Lending Policies and Procedures
3.12      New Credit Regulations (Reglement de Credit) called for in BTM's
statutes have not yet been issued, and BTM continues to apply many operating
procedures of its predecessors (para 3.05), which are, in general, satis-
factory. However, the procedures, role, and responsibilities of the Credit
Committees require clarification (para. 5.04).
3.13      BTM classifies its credit operations in six categories:  agricul-
ture, public sector lending, industry and commerce, consumer credit, housing,
and handicrafts. Agriculture, including livestock and fisheries, is to be
BTM's main area of lending, and it can finance: (a) all seasonal inputs;
(b) ail investments leading to an increase in agricultural production in the
medium-term; and (c) marketing, processing, and conditioning and export of
agricultural products. Except for public lending, BTM's credit operations
from its own resources are subdivided into "General Clientele" and smallholder
loans; the General Clientele category includes all loans over FMG 200,000
(US$950), and the smallholder category includes all loans under FMG 200,000.
Joint lending operations are undertaken by the three banks for particularly
large operations (for example, financing of rice marketing). BTM normally
acts as lead bank for agricultural activities. BTM also carries out special
lending operations on behalf of the Government with earmarked funds (Fonds
Affectes). Such operations often involve unusual risks or activities outside
of BTM's normal areas of lending. Although in theory such operations are
entirely financed with Government funds an analysis of BTM's operations
suggests that it has financed some such activities from its own funds.  Some
clarification of appropriate fees is also required (para 5.05).
3.14      Borrowers.  BTM's borrowers can include Government enterprises or
institutions, parastatal companies, fokonolona institutions, cooperatives,
private enterprises or individuals. There is no minimum income requirement.
BTM can lend to foreigners as well as to nationals, but general banking
regulations stipulate that BTM must extend at least 15% of its total lending
to nationals.
3.15      Loan appraisal.  All General Clientele loan applications (para 3.13)
are individually analyzed and managed in accordance with satisfactory banking
standards. Loan applications for private enterprises and individuals are
analyzed by the branches, usually on the basis of the documentation giving
information on the borrowers' assets and liabilities, operating results,
an(a repaytaent capacity, and on documents justifying the object and amount of



- 21 -
financing applied for. These applications can be processed at the branch
level or by headquarters, depending on the amounts requested. In addition,
BTM branch or Group management carry out random field cross-checks of
borrowers. Loan applications for Government enterprises or parastatal
companies are processed at headquarters only. Smallholder loans below FMG
200,000 are appraised in accordance with specific criteria for sub-groups of
loans (e.g. housing or small equipment) in order to simplify their management;
applications are processed entirely at the branches. Procedures for appraisal
of small agricultural loans are described in paras 3.29-3.30.
3.16      Loan approval.  Loan applications are processed for approval at the
level of the branch, the Group, or headquarters (General Manager) depending on
the amount and the type of security. Loans secured with tangible assets up to
FMG 3.0 million can be approved by a branch director, from FMG 3.0 million to
FMG 10.0 million by a Group director, and from FMG 10.0 million to FMG 100.0
million by BTM's General Manager. If secured by other types of guarantees,
loans up to FMG 1.0 million can be approved by a branch director, from FMG 1.0
million to FMG 5.0 million by a Group director, and from FMG 5.0 million to
FMG 20.0 million by the General Manager. In addition, the General Manager has
authority to approve loan renewals of less than FMG 300 million provided this
amount does not exceed 30% of previous commitments. Loan applications exceeding
FMG 100 million (if secured with tangible assets) or FMG 20 million (if
secured with other types of guarantees), must be submitted for approval to
BTM's Management Committee. Loans exceeding FMG 100 million must in addition
be submitted for the prior approval of the Central Bank.
Lending Terms
3.17      General Maturities:  Average maturities on short-term loans are
twelve months, but small seasonal loans can extend to eighteen months.
Medium-term loans range from two to five years, and long-term loans from six
to ten years. BTM could exceed the 10-year maturity for long-term loans if it
had access to long-term assets. Repayments for agricultural loans are
generally timed with crop harvests. Repayments of annuities on term loans are
set at either June 30, July 31, August 31, or September 30. Loan amounts:
There is no ceiling for General Clientele loans. However, total loans to a
single borrower cannot exceed 10% of BTM's outstanding portfolio. In addition,
BTM's total outstanding portfolio is controlled through the ceiling of its
rediscounting facility with the Central Bank (currently FMG 4,600 million).
The ceiling on loan amounts for small seasonal loans is FMG 500,000. An
equity contribution is required for General Clientele loans. For agriculture,
10% is required for seasonal and marketing loans and 33% for investment loans
and bridge financing, and the required equity contribution ranges from 10 to
45% in other sectors, depending on the sector and the loan amount. No equity
contribution is required for housing loans below FMG 500,000 and for consumer
loans. Security: BTM lends on a secured basis. Tangible guarantees include
mortgages on the borrowers assets (land, buildings, stocks, and equipment).
BTM normally insists that securities be insured. In some cases, BTM has
secured loans against personal guarantees, Government guarantees, or guarantee
funds, with detailed repayment procedures ensuring that amounts falling due
are automatically repaid. BTM has subscribed to a group life insurance policy
for medium and long-term borrowers and charges a fee accordingly.



- 22 -
3.18      Interest Rates and Commissions.  Interest rates and fees are estab-
lished by the Central Bank for all three banks (BTM, BNI, and BFV). For
General Clientele operations, interest rates on short-term loans range from 8
to 10% a year; in addition a fee of 1% a year is charged on current account
overdrafts. On discounted short-term claims (advances on merchandise, produce,
stabilization funds contracts) interest rates range from 6.75 t" 9.50%. In-
terest rates on medium-term loans range from 6.25 to 7.50% for rediscountable
loans, and from 6.75 to 9.75% on non-rediscountable loans. In both cases, a
fee of 0.50 to 0.625% per six month period is applied. Interest rates for
long-term loans normally range from 7 to 7.50%, and a commitment fee of 1% is
added. Within the ceilings allowed for each bank, the Central Bank's redis-
counting facilities are as follows: short-term loans, 5.50%; loans for
foreign transactions, 4%; loans on stabilization funds, 4.74%; advances, from
6.5 to 8%; medium-term loans, 5%; and long-term loans, 6% (although BTM does
not presently have such a rediscounting facility). For small loans, interest
rates calculated pro rata temporis are replaced by a fix]d fee. This fee is
applied on the loan principal for the total duration of the loan; as a result,
the actual interest rate to the borrower is higher than the nominal rate. For
small loans for equipment, this fee is set at 1% a month. Interest rates and
charges for smallholder agricultural loans are discussed in para 3.32. On
-leposits, interest rates paid are 3%. For the first two years of BTM's opera-
tions, the interest rate structure appears to have been adequate. The rate
c>f inflation was maintained at 7-8% a year, and the cost of BTM's resources
has remained low, about 3% of its working assets. However, these interest
rates are low in relation to projected inflation rates of 12% a year on aver-
age for the next three to four years. At appraisal, the Goverament informed
IDA that the entire question of interest rates was being reviewed and that
senior officials are aware of the need to raise interest rates, both on loans
and on deposits, in this inflationary period. There are also, however,
pressures to lower interest rates to small-holders (para 3.04). This issue
was further reviewed during negotiations (para 5.08).
Loan Recovery Procedures
3.19      At the end of each fiscal year, BTM analyses the outstanding amounts
falling due and classifies arrears as doubtful debts, debts in litigation, and
bad debts. The latter are provisioned at 100%, and recovered from provisions.
Doubtful debts and debts in litigation are covered by proportionate provisions
depending on the probability of repayment. The branches send their annual
statement of bad debts to BTM headquarters where it is decided which recovery
procedure to use. In the profit and loss accounts, debt recovery is entered
as a profit on previous year's operations.
Accounting and Audit
:3.20     The processing of BTM's accounts is centralized at headquarters.
Accounts are established in accordance with the Accounting Plan for financial
institutions designed by the Bank Control Commission of the Ministry of
Finance. This accounting plan does not permit a full analysis of the Bank's
portfolio or financial ratios. The accounting system is manual for small-
holder agricultural and equipment loans; all other accounts are computer-
:Lzed at headquarters. Accounting and individual accounts statements are kept
mnanually by the field offices which dispatch them to the branch on which they



- 23 -
depend. The branch classifies these accounting statements, processes them
mechanically, and establishes a consolidated statement; the ledger is sent
daily to headquarters for computer processing. Headquarters accounts are
processed in the same way as those of the branches. BTM's consolidated
financial statements showing each branch separately are issued monthly. These
statements are used by the treasurer's office to analyze the branches' and the
Bank's overall cash flow position. The accounts of most branches are pro-
cessed with very serious lags, in particular for the branches located in the
least accessible parts of the country. Another reason for delays in proces-
sing accounts is the current overload of BTM's computer (para. 3.11).
3.21      Audit.  Internal audit of BTM's operations is carried out by six
controllers, each responsible for a group and one of the headquarters depart-
ments. They are too few for the task and usually work as a team to analyze
thoroughly the accounting, financial, and managerial performance of the
branches. They are far from achieving the objective of auditing each agency
once a year; for example, in the first six months of 1979, only three branches
were audited. The external audit of BTM's operations is presently carried out
by two "Commissaires aux comptes" who formerly verified BAMES's accounts. To
date, no audit of BTM accounts had been undertaken by an independent audit
firm. When the Orientation Council for the Banking and Financial Sector is
established, this system will change, and BTM will be subject to the external
control requirements for socialist enterprises. The Council will appoint a
controller to review all services and operations of the bank; he will report
to the Management Committee and to the Orientation Council. The Central Bank
also oversees BTM through checks of monthly documentation for the rediscount-
ing facility; it can also review samples of the operations financed through
the rediscounting facility.
BTM Financial Structure
3.22      Sources of Funds.  BTM's paid-in capital was FMG 2,000 million
at December 31, 1978; the Government owns 90% of the shares and the Central
Bank, 10%. Capital, reserves and endowments were FMG 6,783 million. Total
equity of FMG 4,973 million was about 11% of total resources reported at FMG
45,552 million. Its long-term resources were FMG 1,522 million or 3% of its
resources; medium-term resources, FMG 2,625 million, or 6%; and short-term
resources, FMG 36,432 million, or 80%. BTM's capital structure is not typical
of a development bank, which would normally be expected to have mainly medium-
and long-term funds. BTM funds its operations, even some of its medium-term
loans, with short-term funds, mainly demand and short-term deposits. Long-
term resources currently available to BTM include loans from the CCCE, the
Swiss Government, and the African Development Bank.
3.23      Financial Ratios.  The ratio of total assets to total liabilities
was 1.11:1 in 1978, virtually unchanged from 1977. This ratio shows that, if
BTM were to liquidate its portfolio, the proceeds from the liquidation would
exceed BTM's debt by about 11%. The Central Bank sets minimum liquidity and
capitalization requirements for lending institutions under its supervision.
In 1978 BTM did better than those requirements.
3.24      Loan Portfolio.  Total loans outstanding increased by 37% from
FMG 47.8 billion (US$228.0 million) in 1977 to FMG 65.3 billion (US$311.0



- 24 -
million) in 1978. The following table shows the distribution of loans in
BTM's portfolio by sector:
1977        %         1978         %
(FMG million)         (FMG million)
Agriculture                    14,314        30      25,219       39
Commerce and Industry          31,805        66      33,504       51
PerEoual                        1,705         4       6,558       10
47,824      100       65,281      100
In 1978, of BTM's total number of loans, 30% were in Antananarivo faritany,
19% in Diego-Suarez faritany, 17% in Mahajunga faritany, 13% each in Tamatave
and Tulear faritanys, and 8% in Fianararantsoa. A 75% increase in agricultural
loans and a threefold increase in personal loans were the main factors in the
overall portfolio growth. At fiscal year 1978, about 80% of all outstanding
loans were short-term, and the remaining 20%, medium-term. Short-term loans,
however, represented 96% of the total portfolio amount, because most large
credits were short-term (largely marketing loans).
3.25      Operating Results.  BTM has had very satisfactory operating results.
Income before taxes increased 69% from FMG 461 million in 1977 to FMG 782
million in 1978, largely as a result of portfolio growth. Income as a
percentage of average portfolio increased from 1.6% in 1977 to 2.1% in 1978.
The main reason for this improvement in profitability is that BTM has managed
to maintain the rate of growth of its administrative and financial charges
below the rate of growth of its portfolio.
C. Rural Credit Program - FMR
3.26      The Rural Credit Program (Financement du monde rural or FMR), is the
principal vehicle for BTM lending to small farmers. It is a vital part of
BTM's activities, and all lending under the proposed Project would form part
of this broad scheme.   The program was initiated by BNM prior to the creation
of BTM. Between 1972 and 1976, BNM made loans for smallholder agriculture
totalling FMG 2,315 million, or 23% of its total agricultural loans; the total
number of smallholder borrowers during this period was estimated at 113,000.
BNM's smallholder loan program has been continued by its successor, BTM, and
the general smallholder lending scheme has been known as the FMR since 1977.
Since the creation of BTM, the number of small agricultural loans as well as
the amount extended under the FMR has expanded rapidly.
3.27      The FMR program includes all BTM lending for smallholder agricul-
ture; all loans are for less than FMG 200,000. The administration of loans
under the FMR program differs markedly from normal BTM lending operations, and
it represents an innovative effort to develop an efficient, cost-effective
system for providing credit to large numbers of small farmers throughout
Madagascar. The stated objective is also to promote the development of local



- 25 -
government institutions and socialist cooperatives and other forms of collective
endeavor. The basic principle of the program is that loans are made, largely
to individuals, within the context of the local government (fokonolona)
institutions. Loan agreements must be approved by a credit committee represent-
ing the fokonolona institutions, by BTM, and by the individual farmer; the
farmer is responsible individually to BTM but the fokonolona institution
provides a moral guarantee. The fokonolona institutions have a major respon-
sibility for all aspects of administration of the credit program. BTM can,
and does, halt all lending activities in an area where individual repayment
performance under the program has been poor.
3.28      Smallholder lending operations in recent years may be summarized
as follows:
BNM and BTM Smallholder Agricultural Loans 1974-78
% of Total
Number      % of          Amount        Lending of
of Loans  Total Loans  (FMG Million)   BNM or BTM
1974 (BNM)              5,181        26             121             1
1975 (BNM)             15,517        52             645             4
1976 (BNM)             22,061        53             808             5
1977 (BTM)             59,088        82           2,385             5
1978 (BTM)             56,325        59           2,319             4
3.29      The administration of BTM's Rural Credit Program involves close
collaboration between BTM field staff, technical staff of the Ministry of
Rural Development and Agrarian Reform (MDRRA), and the fokonolona institu-
tions. Smallholder loans are extended in theory in the context of a general
agreement (Protocole d'Accord) between BTM and the MDRRA. To date no
formal agreement has been signed, but a draft agreement was reviewed during
appraisal and negotiations (para. 5.04). This agreement defines lending
policies, financing plans, and the responsibilities of extension and other
services of the Ministry; it also includes technical information on crops to
be financed. The agreements can be modified each year. On the basis of this
agreement, BTM regional officers prepare "Basic Instructions", reflecting the
general scope of the agreement but adapted to the specific requirements of
each region, for example describing crops to be developed. Before each
cropping season, a credit committee composed of administrative and technical
services of the faritany and fivondronana and of BTM meets and defines the
credit objectives and amounts for the cropping season. BTM has in fact gained
experience with all the crops proposed for the short-term lending operations
under the project. This document must be approved by the Presidents of the
faritany and fivondronana. BTM then prepares operating instructions based on
this document. The responsibilities of the fokonolona institutions in small-
holder credit administration include: (a) definition of development prior-
ities; (b) informing farmers about credit conditions; (c) preparation of loan
applications; (d) selection of applications for submission to the Fokontany
credit committee; and (e) credit administration, including record-keeping,



- 26 -
disbursement of funds, credit recovery, and supervision of loan utilization.
MDRRA extension services and BTM assist the Fokontany with preparation of
technical documents, extension work with farmers, supervision of provision of
goods under loans, participation in credit committees, and general assistance
in the execution of development programs.  The Fokontany receivcs in compensa-
tion for its services one sixth of commissions collected if loan recovery is
1()0%. In selecting areas for concentrated credit programs, BTM applies the
following criteria: (a) level of recovery from previous lending; (b) the
caliber of the local Fokontany in previous lending or collective investment
projects; (c) the caliber and representativeness of Fokontany officers; and
(d) the level of commissions collected and debts under Fokontany marketing
operations.
3.30      In order to obtain a loan, a farmer fills out forms prepared by BTM
staff, submitting them for the preliminary review of a credit committee at
the Firaissam level. The committee, in a public session, examines a series
oE loan applications simultaneously. It explains loan contracts to benefi-
ciaries and these are signed by the committee president, Fokontany authori-
ties, borrowers and BTM. Funds can be disbursed immediately following loan
signature, either in cash (for example for purchase of draft animals) or
in kind (as for purchase of fertilizer, plows, etc.). Cash disbursements
are paid to a Fokontany account and beneficiaries withdraw funds according
to a disbursement schedule, on presentation of verification by extension
services. BTM pays directly suppliers for inputs, at the request of the
Fokontany, again with the authorization of the extension agent.
3.31      Recovery of loans is principally the responsibility of the Fokontany,
supported by the BTM and the extension services at all levels. The Fokontany
make loan repayments to BTM, presenting a status report on recoveries, with
a copy to local authorities and to the extension service. Fokontany accounts
are charged interest for late payment at a rate of 1% of overdue amounts.
Unpaid debts for small agricultural loans are provisioned at 100%; branches
report annually on unrecoverable loans with recommendations on treatment.
In the past, the record of loan recovery has been good, with a general average
of 98%. However, in 1978 smallholder loan recoveries were only 77%, the
result, in large part, of a poor crop year. BTM has taken strong action in
several cases where recovery has been poor, notably in closing to all future
credit operation Fokontanys where unpaid loans are outstanding; this has
notably been the case in Tulear Faritany and parts of the Middle West.
3.32      Lending Terms.  The maximum loan to an individual farmer is FMG
200,000, and ceilings are established for various crops and activities.
BTM charges include insurance, commitment fees, and taxes; the fee is
currently 1% a month, for a maximum of 10% a year for short-term loans, 6% a
year for medium-term loans, and 4% for long-term loans. The fee is applied on
the loan principal for the total duration of the loan. The level of actual
interest rates is therefore higher than the level of fees, depending on
repayment terms (para 3.18). Loans have the moral guarantee of the Fokontany,
which must open a deposit account with BTM prior to obtaining credit for its
members. The Fokontany provides a further guarantee for loan operations by
earmarking 10% of marketing fees, which the Fokonolonas collect, and which is
maintained in a separate blocked account. BTM can in theory attach these
funds if repayments from fokonolona members are not forthcoming.



- 27 -
3.33      Performance of the Rural Credit Program.  The experience under BTM's
smallholder lending program has varied widely from region to region; detailed
analysis is difficult because available data have not been compiled systemati-
cally. The credit procedures described above work well in some areas, while
in others, neither the fokonolona institutions nor the local extension
services are sufficiently developed to provide needed support for the program.
BTM has rapidly increased both the number of smallholder loans and the total
volume of lending; it is apparent that in some areas this credit expansion has
been well managed, with loans being used for productive ends. Elsewhere the
experience has been less favorable. The experience with recoveries has also
been mixed, although the generally high level of recovery should be emphasized.
It is apparent that arrears on smallholder loans increased significantly first
in 1977-78, and again in 1978-79. Climatic factors explain these problems in
part, but it appears that other more complex factors have also played a role,
such as some political pressures to prevent firm action by BTM to recover
loans. However, BTM is now reporting a major improvement in loan recovery for
the 1979-80 cropping season (para 5.10). The collective guarantee of the
fokonolona institutions apparently works well in some regions, while elsewhere
it has been very difficult to apply. Measures to improve the recovery position
are under review, and BTM has consistently used the means at its disposal,
notably closing Fokontany to further loans, to improve recovery levels. In
general, the FMR procedures are soundly conceived, and should as they develop
result in significant savings for BTM in loan appraisal, supervision and
recovery. The drawbacks of the system are: (a) the political nature of the
credit committees, which may result in non-financial and non-technical
criteria being applied in credit selection at the Fokontany level; and (b)
limited direct technical supervision of loans by BTM. The scope for expansion
of the smallholder credit program may however be constrained by the limited
capacity of extension services for foodcrops in particular.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
4.01      The main objectives of the Project would be to strengthen BTM's
managerial and financial capacity as a rural development bank; to increase
smallholder production on the major export, industrial, and food crops; and
to improve smallholders- incomes throughout Madagascar. The proposed Project
would be the first IDA-financed Credit Project in Madagascar. If successful,
it could be followed by other credit projects. The proposed Project would
support the Government's policy of extending credit for development in the
rural areas, with BTM as the principal intermediary. It would be the con-
tinuation of an on-going smallholder credit program (FMR - Financement du
Monde Rural) (para 3.26) which BTM initiated in 1977; potential participants
in the program as borrowers from BTM are the present 1.5 million smallholder
families of Madagascar.



- 28 -
B. General Description
4..02     The Project would be implemented over an estimated period of three
years and would comprise the following components:
(a) Seasonal credit, for the maintenance of existing plantations of
coffee, cloves, and vanilla, along the northeastern and western coasts; for
the maintenance of sugar cane plantations, mainly in Mahajunga faritany; and
for the cultivation of foodcrops (paddy, maize, and groundnuts) mainly on the
central plateau;
(b) Medium-term credit for the regeneration of old coffee
plantations, the establishment of new sugar plantations, and the purchase of
draft animals;
(c) Long-term credit for the establishment of new plantations of
ccffee, vanilla, pepper and cocoa.
(d) Experimental credit (short, medium and long-term) to small-
holders or village-level cooperatives for various agricultural activities, e.g.,
vineyard establishment, steer stall-fattening, and small-scale pig fattening;
(e) Staff training for BTM in financial, managerial, and computer
disciplines;
(f) Logistical support to BTM, notably vehicles to expand its net-
work of mobile banks; and
(g) Consultant services to prepare a feasibility study to introduce
a Data Base Management system in BTM.
4.03      BTM would be responsible for Project implementation.  BTM would
coordinate with fokonolona institutions and with MDRRA for credit admin-
istration, and with relevant institutions for crop extension services: OCP
(para 2.11) for coffee, cocoa, vanilla, pepper, and cloves, with the principal
sugar company and the Sugar Stabilization Fund for sugar cane, and with MDRRA
and development parastatals for subsistence crops.
4.04      Project lending activities would be carried out throughout
Madagascar, but their distribution would be largely determined by regional
cropping patterns: coffee and pepper, mostly along the northwestern and
eastern coasts, from Vohimarina to Fenoarivo; vanilla, along the eastern coast
from Vohimarina to Antalaha; sugar cane around Vohibinany, Ambilobe, and at
Nosy Be; and foodcrops on the central plateau (Map 14922).
C. Detailed Features
Smallholder Credit
4.05      The Project includes all incremental investments foreseen by BTM
under the Rural Credit Program for the three-year period starting with the



- 29 -
1980-81 planting season, which have been evaluated as financially and econo-
mically viable and which are consistent with Government rural development
goals. BTM would finance the current level of lending to smallholders from
the roll-over of funds from FMR lending since its inception.  The credit
categories are present estimates, but depending on demand, prices, and other
factors such as the availability of inputs, the relative distribution of
credit operations may change during implementation and other crops be included.
Given the prevailing production systems (para 2.05), BTM would lend to the
same farmer for several different farm activities, e.g., coffee and cocoa
cultivation.  Cotton was excluded from the crops eligible for financing under
the Project, as the information currently available suggests that (i) the
financial and economic viability of smallholder cotton production under
rainfed conditions is at best marginal at present price levels (para 2.31);
and (ii) there are some major structural problems in the cotton sub-sector
from production through processing. Project costs include the farm investment
costs for crops to be financed by BTM, including hired labor. All short-term
loans for plantation maintenance would be available three consecutive years.
4.06      Credit for Export Crops.  BTM would provide credit to smallholders
for the following five export crops:  coffee, cocoa, pepper, cloves and
vanilla. Short-term credit would be made available for the improvement of
existing coffee, vanilla, and clove plantations, medium-term credit for the
regeneration of coffee plantations only, and long-term credit for the estab-
lishment of new plantations of coffee, vanilla, pepper and cocoa. No credit
would be made available to establish new clove plantations: the present
clove-tree plantations of Madagascar are sufficient to guarantee the country s
volume of exports (para 2.23). Farmers would use the credit to purchase
technical inputs (fertilizer, pesticides, planting material, tools) and to
pay for technical services (land preparation, tree trimming) and hired labor.
Since the majority of farmers cultivate several crops, usually subsistence
crops and coffee and another export crop, each farmer would receive a loan
combining short-term and medium-term credit, or short-term and long-term
credit, depending on his cropping system. It is assumed that credit would be
used to finance all the farm expenditures for export crops; the farmers own
contribution would be family labor. The technical features for the production
of these crops are given in Chapter VI. It is estimated that during the
Project period, BTM would extend credit to an estimated 25,000 farmers for
export crops, for a total amount of about FMG 678 million (US$3.23 million).
These loans would be used for the maintenance, regeneration and establishment
of 9,400 ha of coffee plantations, the maintenance of 5,000 ha of cloves, the
maintenance and establishment of 2,400 ha of vanilla, 300 ha of cocoa, and the
establishment of 300 ha of pepper plantations. Average loan amounts would be
FMG 9,000 (US$45) for short-term loans, FMG 15,000 (US$70) for medium-term
loans, and FMG 47,000 (US$220) for long-term loans. An indicative distribution
of loans by crop and type of credit is summarized below:



- 30 -
Short-term   Medium-term   Long-term
Credit        Credit         Credit      Amount    %
Coffee no. of loans             19,500        4,800          2,400
Amount (FMG million)       192.85        69.36          105.54      367.75   55
Cloves no. of loans              7,500
Amount (FMG million)        55.28          -               -         55.28    8
Vanilla no. of loans             2,400          -            2,400          -       -
Amount (FMG million)        21.12          -           148.97       170.09   25
Pepper no. of loans                                          1,200
Amount (FMG million)          -            -            62.30        62.30    9
Cocoa no. of loans                 -            -             1,200         -       -
Amount (FMG million)          -            -            22.34        22.34    3
Total no. of loans              29,400        4,800          7,200       41,400    -
Amount (FMG million)       269.25        69.36         339.15       677.76  100
%                           40             10            50                  100
4.07      Credit for Industrial Crops.  Under the proposed Project, BTM would
lîmit smallholder credit for industrial crops to sugar cane. Short-term
credit would be provided for the maintenance of existing plantations, and
medium-term credit for the establisment of new ones. Farmers would use the
credit to purchase technical inputs, namely fertilizer, planting materials,
and tools, and to pay for technical services, principally mechanical ploughing
and transport, and for hired labor. It is assumed that credit would be used
by the farmers to finance all expenditures for sugar cultivation while the
farmers  contribution would be in terms of family labor.  The technical
features of sugar cane cultivation are given in Chapter VI. As in the case
of export crops, it was assumed that farmers cultivate subsistence crops in
addition to sugar cane. It is estimated that during the Project period
BTM would extent credit to some 1,200 farmers for sugar cultivation, for a
total amount of about FMG 250 million, of which about 40% for existing planta-
tions and 60% to establish new plantations. Average loan amounts would be FMG
82,000 (US$390) for short-term loans, and FMG 128,000 (US$611) for medium-term
loans. An indicative distribution of credit between short- and medium-term
is given below:
Short-term    Medium-term          Total
Credit         Credit        Amount        %
Improvement of          No. of loans   1,200              -
existing plantations      Amount
(FMG million)   99.0                          99.0       40
Establishment of        No. of loans                    1,200           -           -
new plantations            Amount
(FMG million)                  154.0         154.0       60
Total              No. of loans   1,200            1,200         2,400     100
Amount       99.0          154.0
(FMG million)                                253.0      100



- 31 -
4.08      Credit for Subsistence Crops.  Under the proposed Project, BTM
would extend credit for subsistence crops, namely irrigated or rainfed rice
in the lowlands, and maize and groundnuts on the hills (tanety). Short-term
credit would be provided for seasonal inputs, principally seeds and fertilizer,
and medium-term credit for the purchase of draft oxen, ploughs and carts.
Farmers would use the credit to finance all these investments; their own
contribution would be in terms of family labor.  The technical features of
subsistence crops cultivation are given in Chapter VI. It is estimated that
during the Project period BTM would extend credit to some 6,000 farmers for
subsistence crop cultivation, in a total amount of about FMG 1,300 million.
Average loan amounts would be FMG 69,000 (US$330) for short-term loans, and
FMG 143,000 (US$680) for medium-term loans. An indicative distribution of
credit between short and medium-term for each category of investments is
summarized below:
Short-term    Medium-term          Total
Credit        Credit        Amount       %
-------------FMG million----------
Rice                             300                          300       24
Maize                            114              -           114        9
Draft animals and equipment                      860          860       67
Amount               414             860        1,274       100
Experimental Credit
4.09      The objective of this component would be to gain experience with the
financing of certain activities which are currently practised on a relatively
small scale, and with the financing of certain types of borrowers. The
results from this experimental credit component would be used by BTM in the
design of its future lending activities in rural areas. Activities already
identified include vineyard establishment in Fianarantsoa Faritany, steer
stall-feeding in the central plateau, and possibly smallholder dairying and
pig fattening. It is anticipated that the majority of borrowers for these
activities would be smallholder farmers. BTM would also extend some experi-
mental credit to other types of borrowers, namely village level producer
cooperatives, which are being established in several parts of the country.
No large-scale cooperatives would, however, be eligible for financing under
the IDA Credit. They are complex institutions whose managerial and financial
capacity would require an in depth assessment which BTM could not perform
within the proposed experimental credit component. BTM would extend the
proposed experimental credit on a case by case basis after a careful review of
the technical justification of the proposed activities, and of the managerial
and financial viability in the case of village level cooperatives. An amount
of FMG 107 million has been included in Project costs for this component.
Staff Training
4.10      Under the Project, BTM would carry out a training program for its
managerial and financial staff, and for the staff of its computer services
department. For the managerial and financial staff, the objective would be to
establish an in-house training program, and offer refresher and professional



- 32 -
training possibilities for all staff levels from headquarters and field
offices. Emphasis would be put on accounting, simple financial analysis, and
banking administration and management. To design and establish the program,
BTM would hire consulting services. Additional practical training could be
offered abroad, preferably vith other agricultural development banks in French
speaking African countries. FMG 63 million have been earmarked for these
training activities, including 24 months of consultants' services, didactic
material, and scholarships for practical training abroad. The monthly costs
of consultants' service have been estimated at US$10,000 including fees,
living allowance, housing allowance, and international travel.
4.11      For the computer staff, the objective would be to complete the
training of the existing staff with the new computer, and to expand BTM's
staff capacity for various services; analysts, programmers, 14 operators, and
an operations manager would be trained. The latter, plus four operators would
be later appointed to the first computer regional centers (para 3.11). The
program would be contracted to IBM; part of the training would be given in
Europe and part of it in Madagascar. The principal investments would include
the cost of courses, including international travel and living allowances, and
didactic materials. FMG 30.5 million have been included in Project costs for
these training activities.
Logistical Support to BTM
4.12      Under the Project, BTM would establish seven itinerant banks in
order to extend its activities in rural areas where the volume of business
is not yet sufficient to justify the establishment of a permanent field
office. These itinerant banks, with four-wheel drive vehicles especially
equipped for such banking operations, would operate from the branches.
The principal investments would be the purchase and equipping of these
vehicles.
Consultant Services and Studies
4.13      BTM would hire consultant services to prepare a feasibility study
to establish a Data Base Management System. The study would investigate the
existing banking programs on IBM computers which are available on the inter-
national market and activities of other foreign banks with operations similar
to BTM's. The study would also propose a detailed implementation schedule
for the introduction of a Data Base Management System, including a detailed
staff training program. The feasibility study would be carried out with three
man-months of consultants' services, at a total cost of US$40,000 equivalent;
the man-month cost of such consultants' services have been estimated at
about US$13,300 including fees, documentation, international transport, and
living allowances.
D. Project Costs
4.14      Total Project costs are estimated at about FMG 2,982 million
(US$14.2 million), of which about US$5.8 million or 40% represent foreign
exchange costs. Project costs are summarized in the following table:



- 33 -
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   % of Total
Project Component                (FMG Million)       ----(US$ million)----   Base Costs
(a) Seasonal Credit           365    417       782    1.74    1.99    3.73          32
(b) Medium Term Credit        708    375    1,083    3.37    1.79    5.16           45
(c) Long Term Credit          298     41       339    1.40    0.20    1.60          14
(d) Experimental Credit        67     40       107    0.32    0.19    0.51           4
(e) Staff Training              -     94        94       -     0.45    0.45          4
(f) Logistie Support            -     19        19       -     0.09    0.09          1
(g) Consultant Services         -      8         8       -     0.04    0.04          -
Total Base Costs      1,438    994    2,432    6.83    4.75   11.58           100
Contingency Allowances
Price                         330    220       550    1.57    1.05    2.62
Total Project Costs  1,768  1,214    2,982    8.40    5.80   14.20
Project costs are estimated at prices of April 1980. Price contingencies
were calculated on a cumulative basis, at a weighted average rate for domestic
and international inflation of 12% for 1980 and 1981, and 10% thereafter.
Project costs for the credit components were calculated on the basis of
estimates of the number of loans that BTM would make for each type of farming
activity, based on experience gained to date with the smallholder credit
program (para 3.26). The allocation of credit funds is thought to be realistic
in terms of the returns expected from the various activities.  The actual
number of loans made in any single category will, however, depend on the
relative attractiveness of these activities at a given time. Except for taxes
on salaries, fuel and vehicles which are not significant, Project costs do not
include any taxes or duties. Table 1 provides additional details on annual
Project costs.
E. Financing
4.15      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
FMG Million      US$ Million         % of Total Costs
IDA                       2,415            11.50                   81
BTM                         567             2.70                   19
Total               2,982             14.20                 100
4.16      The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$11.5 million equiva-
lent) would be to the Government of Madagascar on standard IDA terms. The
Credit would finance about 81% of total costs, of which 100% of the foreign
exchange costs and about US$5.7 million or 68% of local costs. To give BTM a
greater financial autonomy than it has at present (para 3.22) and to develop
its capital structure as that of a development bank and therefore increase its



- 34 -
long-term resources, the Government would pass on the proceeds of the Credit
to BTM as equity. The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk. The
amount withdrawn from the Credit account would be capitalized every year.
Amounts equivalent to repayment of sub loans, including principal and interest,
would be earmarked every year by BTM for lending to smallholders under the
rural credit program. Assurances were obtained at negotiations from Government
on the above terms and conditions for relending the proceeds of IDA Credit to
BTM, and for BTM's use of funds obtained from subborrowers' loan repayments.
These conditions would be reflected in a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and BTM; signature of an agreement approved by IDA would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
F. Procurement
4.17      The items to be financed under the Project are varied and would not
be suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive bidding,
except for the vehicles that BTM will purchase as itinerant banks. However,
there is adequate competition, both international and national, in offering
goods through the normal supply channels which buyers would use. Fertilizer
is the largest single item to be procured under the Project. For export crops
and sugar, the extension organizations and the companies procure their fertil-
izer through international bidding. For foodcrops, part of the fertilizer
made available to the MDRRA extension services is obtained by the Goverament
from bilateral donors, and some of the parastatal companies also operating in
the fertilizer trade obtain it through international bidding, following
Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Association. Procurement
of most other items to be financed under the Project would be through normal
commercial channels. Draft animals, implements, and tools would be obtained
from local sources. Seeds and planting material would be obtained from OCP
for export crops, from sugar companies for sugar cane, and from MDRRA extension
services for foodcrops.
G. Disbursement
4.18      The Project commitment period is for three years (October 1, 1980 -
September 30, 1983) and BTM's estimated disbursements to sub-borrowers would
be in accordance with the estimated credit demand for the various activities
f inanced. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed on the following
basis:
(a)   80% of incremental amounts disbursed by BTM under short,
mnedium, and long-term sub-loans for coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, cocoa,
sugar, and foodcrops (including draft animals);
(b)   80% of the amounts disbursed under the experimental credit
scheme; and
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local expenditures for
technical assistance, training, consulting services and vehicles.



- 35 -
Disbursement against (a) would be against statements of expenditures certified
by BTM's financial manager or his authorized representative. Disbursement
against (b) would also be against statements of expenditures, supported
by the detailed proposals for utilization of experimental credit funds (para
5.07).  The documentation for the statements of expenditures would be retained
by BTM for review by IDA supervision missions. Disbursements against (c)
would be fully documented. An estimated schedule of disbursements is included
as Table 2.
H. Accounts and Audit
4.19      BTM's accounts are fully computerized, and with the expansion of its
computer capacity (para. 3.11), it is expected that BTM will be in a position
to obtain monthly position statements for all its field offices, and con-
solidated quarterly balance sheets and financial statements for all its
operations. To date, BTM's accounts have been verified by a "Commissaire aux
comptes", but the Government has agreed that in the future, BTM accounts will
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. This would be com-
patible with the new external control procedures proposed for socialist
enterprises (para 3.21). Assurances were obtained at negotiations from
Government and BTM that (a) BTM's accounting plan (para 3.20) would be parti-
ally redesigned before September 1 1981 to allow for a rational analysis of
its agricultural loan portfolio and financial ratios; (b) that BTM would
maintain separate accounts adequate to show utilization of Project funds, and
(c) that BTM's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, and submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
The auditors should pay particular attention to the procedures followed by BTM
for disbursing against statements of expenditures. It was a condition of
Board Presentation that the 1978 accounts had been audited; during negotia-
tions, the auditors' report has been submitted to, and has been found accept-
able by, IDA.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Project Implementation and BTM Staffing
General
5.01      The Project would be carried out by BTM.  Overall supervision of
Project implementation by the Government would be ensured through the Manage-
ment Committee common to all three Banks which is chaired by the Minister of
Finance (para 3.06). BTM would extend credit through its branches and field
offices for Project investments, and would maintain its existing monitoring
and evaluation system (para 5.12). Sub-borrowers would execute the individual
investments financed by BTM loans. The selection and field supervision for
technical performance and loan repayment would continue to be jointly executed
by BTM, the fokonolona institutions and the extension services or development
organizations, in accordance with the existing procedures for the FMR Program
(para. 3.27). Technical assistance to farmers for Project investments would
be provided by the various extension agencies (Chapter II) for the various



- 36 -
crops, which are generally satisfactory for the number of Project beneficiaries
e!nvisaged. During the Project period, BTM plans to limit its expansion of new
agencies and branches but to operate seven new mobile banks.
5.02      BTM is a sound, well managed financial institution, and it has
performed well under the dIfficult conditions that have resulted from the
reorganization of Madagascar's banking sector. However, the development of
BTM is still at a relatively early stage, and some uncertainties still exist
about the future development of the institution, both regarding its management
structure and its basic operating procedures.  In particular, some aspects of
the laws under which BTM was established have yet to be fully elaborated and
applied. Therefore, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Government would seek IDA's approval prior to instituting any significant
changes in BTM's current management structure, in its basic operating proce-
dures and policies, or in its statutes. Assurances were also obtained that
the Government would inform IDA in advance of other significant changes, such
as the establishment of the Orientation Council for the Banking and Financial
sector provided for under the law (para 3.01) or for the establishment of a
new, separate management committee for BTM, rather than the joint committee
which now serves the BTM, BNI and BFV (para 3.06). In addition, several
outstanding issues affecting BTM's current management were reviewed during
negotiations to clarify proposed changes tentatively agreed upon during the
appraisal mission. These include notably the terms of reference for the
Studies and Planning Department, the position of the Operations Department
within BTM's overall organization, and the role and staffing of BTM's Internal
Audit Division. BTM's organizational structure was reviewed during negotia-
tions and a new organization agreed upon (Chart 1).
5.03      In general, BTM has adequate numbers of staff to handle its current
volume of operations and to accommodate a modest expansion of its activities.
Nevertheless, BTM staff development plans call for the recruitment of about
110 additional technical staff over the next four years, or about 25 to 30 new
staff members a year. This appears reasonable taking into account the projec-
ted expansion in BTM's operations. BTM requires some additional expertise in
specialized areas, in addition to the training needs defined above (para
4.10). Therefore, assurances were obtained during negotiations that BTM would
engage a qualified financial analyst to serve at BTM headquarters, as well as
data processing staff, as outlined in para 4.11. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the terms of reference and conditions of employment of the
consuiltants for the training program (para 4.10), and the Data base Management
system study (para 4.13) would be submitted to IDA for approval.
B. Project Lending Policies and Procedures
Lending Policies
5.04      Project lending for export, industrial and food crop activities
would be administered under the Rural Credit Program (FMR), described above
iri paras 3.26-3.33. Although the detailed application of lending procedures
under this program has not yet been precisely defined, the system works
well in parts of Madagascar and BTM and the Government are engaged in a



- 37 -
continuinig, pragmatic effort to improve its administration by clarifying and
modifying procedures and by strengthening the capacity of fokonolona institu-
tions to fulfill their role in credit administration. Further, BTM intends
during the Project period to concentrate its lending activities in those areas
where both the level of development of local fokonolona institutions and the
interest of farmers in specific agricultural activities are most promising for
successful lending operations. The basic objectives, procedures, lending
terms and conditions for BTM smallholder loans, the role of the fokonolona
institutions and credit committees in credit administration, and the role of
the extension services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Agrarian
Reform would be defined in an agreement (Protocole d'Accord) on administration
of the FMR Program. A draft agreement was prepared by BTM and was reviewed
during appraisal; a final draft was discussed during negotiations, and it
would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the agreement had been
signed. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that during the Project
implementation period the Government and BTM would consult with IDA prior to
(i) modifying the agreement; and (ii) introducing any significant change in
the design or operating procedures of the FMR program.
5.05      BTM is required under its statutes to undertake certain activities
on behalf of the Government, the fokonolona institutions, or socialist coop-
eratives which fall outside of its normal commercial and agricultural lending
activities. However, no clear procedures defining the type of services to be
provided, the level of remuneration for BTM, or control and reporting proce-
dures have yet been defined. It is expected that such activities will be
regulated under a specific agreement between BTM and the Government, but given
the many uncertainties regarding BTM's potential activities with socialist
cooperatives or socialist enterprises, it seems unlikely that this general
regulation will be finalized in the immediate future. Nevertheless, it is
essential that the principle be established that for all activities, whether
financed with BTM's own funds or on behalf of the Government with earmarked
funds, i) BTM would apply objective standards in appraisal of the credit-worthi-
ness of potential clients and the viability of loan proposals, and (ii) BTM
would receive an adequate remuneration to cover its administrative expenses
for operations on account of third parties. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during the negotiations.
Lending Procedures
5.06      The quality of extension services for farmers varies widely among
the different regions of Madagascar (para 2.11), and in many areas these
services are not always sufficiently developed to support an intensive small-
holder credit project. Further, given the wide variation in geographic
conditions among the regions of Madagascar, the widely differing systems of
production and state of the road network, and the possible changes in relative
prices over time, a careful evaluation of the viability of different crops and
farming systems for each region is essential. This problem is particularly
serious for food crops, where the differences in the quality and intensity of
available extension services is most marked, although adequate services exist
in a large number of Fokontany. BTM has already indicated that they intend
in the future to concentrate their lending activities in those areas where
appropriate services to farmers are available. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that BTM would carefully assess, for the firaisam where



- 38 -
concentrated lending for food crops is proposed, the financial and economic
viability of proposed farm investments for food crops as well as the avail-
ability of appropriate extension services and technical inputs, and would only
extend loans where the viability of investments can be demonstrated.
5.07      BTM would undertake under the Project a series of experimental
credit activities designed to test the viability of new crops and production
system as well as new institutional arrangements such as socialist village-
level cooperatives (para 4.09). It is expected that this program would be
adapted during Project implementation according to operating experience. BTM
will prepare detailed proposals for the design and administration of this
program in consultation with IDA, and would seek to ensure that the same
criteria would apply for these activities as for other BTM lending operations
in terms of the viability of investments. It would be a condition of dis-
bursement for experimental credit activities for each crop season that detailed
proposals for these activities would be approved by IDA prior to the beginning
of the credit season.
rerms of BTM Lending
5.08      In general, BTM's interest rate structure, which is established by
the Central Bank, has been appropriate to assure the institution's financial
viability (para 3.18). However, rates of inflation in Madagascar have in-
creased in the past years and are projected to continue at an average rate of
about 12% a year during most of the Project implementation period. Therefore,
some revision of interest rates applicable for proposed Project lending
iactivities would be appropriate. In determining the levels of proposed fees
and the actual interest rate charged to farmers, all loan administration
charges have been taken into account (para 3.18), with the objective of
ensuring that the equivalent interest rate for BTM's FMR portfolio as a whole
would not be less than 12%. This is in line with the interest rate structure
being prepared by the government in the context of its negotiations with the
International Monetary Fund, which aims at positive interest rates. The
proposed interest rates structure is summarized below and in Table 4. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations regarding these proposals, and that
the level of interest rates for activities under the Project would be reviewed
at least once a year between the Government, -n TM and IDA.
(a) On short-term credit BTM would charge a commission of 1% a month
corresponding to an annual interest rate of 12%. The maturity of the loans
would vary with the crop, ranging from three to nine months. Disbursement
schedules and repayment dates for loans would be established according to the
crop and the regional cultivation patterns.
(b) On medium-term credit BTM would charge a fee of 1% a month on the
original loan amount, corresponding to the equivalent of an average annual
interest rate of at least 12%. The loan maturity, grace period and number of
disbursement tranches would vary according to the crop or activity and are
summarized below:



- 39 -
Maturity       Grace Period       No. of Disbursement
(years)           (years)              Tranches
Regeneration of Coffee
Plantations                    5                 2                      3
New Sugarcane Plantation         4                 2                      1
Purchase of Draft Animals        5                 2                      1
These terms reflect not only the cost of lending for BTM, but also the tech-
nical characteristics of each crop. After trimming, regenerated coffee
plantations only start producing after two years and regain full production
after three years. New sugarcane plantations start producing after twelve
months, but reach full production after two years. Draft animals are used
mostly for the expansion of the area under cultivation which only reaches
full development after three years; draft animals must be replaced after five
years.
On long-term credit, BTM would charge a commission of 1% a month,
corresponding to the equivalent of an average annual interest rate of over 12%.
As for medium-term credit, the loan maturity, grace period and number of
disbursement tranches would vary according to the crop; they are summarized
below:
iMaturity    Grace Period   No. of Disbursement
(years)          (years)          Tranches
New Coffee Plantation                 7               4                 3
New Vanilla Plantation                7               3                 4
New Pepper Plantation                 9               4                 4
New Cocoa Plantation                  9               5                 5
Again, these terms not only reflect the cost of lending for BTM, but also
the technical characteristics for each crop. New coffee plantations start
producing after three years and reach full production after five years, and
new vanilla plantations start producing after three years, but their production
is immediately substantial. Cocoa plantations yield their first financial
benefits more slowly
C. Technical Supervision (Extension)
5.09      The current organization of services for the agricultural activities
under the Project is generally adequate to support the proposed development
activities, subject to the reservations for food crops outlined in para
5.06 above. However, at present there is no effective extension organization
for vanilla (para 2.11), and the current responsibilities for extension for
smallholders producing sugarcane are divided between the MDRRA and the Sugar
Stabilization Fund (para 2.11). It would be a condition of effectiveness



- 40 -
that the Government had made arrangements to ensure that the OCP would provide
appropriate extension services for vanilla growers, and that services for
sugarcane growers would be provided by the SIRAMA in the Ambilobe area, and
the Sugar Stabilization Fund in the Brickaville area.
5.10      Rescheduling of Arrears.  BTM has experienced difficulty with
recovery of loans under the FMR Program in recent years (para 3.33). In
general, BTM has adopted a sound policy towards loan recovery, requiring
a clear discipline through its policy of barring further lending activities
in fokantany where repayments of previous loans has been unsatisfactory.
However, given the climatic variations to which Madagascar is subject, it
would seem appropriate to institute an appropriate system for debt resched-
uling and refinancing. A careful review of this problem took place during
negotiations. On the basis of this document and an ongoing Government review
of alternatives for insurance or rescheduling schemes, appropriate measures
were discussed during negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation, and Reporting
5.11      BTM would establish a simple monitoring and evaluation system of
the rural credit program under the Project. This would be one of the respon-
sibilities of the Studies and Planning Department. The objective of the
system would be to provide clearer information on lending operations by region
by crop, and type of borrower, to assist BTM in planning for future lending
activities. In designing this system, a sample of borrowers would be designed,
which would reflect a range of regions, types of cropping patterns, farm size,
and type of loans. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
proposed monitoring system would be discussed with IDA not later than June 30,
1981. The Studies and Planning Department would also prepare the Completion
Report. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would submit the completion report to IDA not later than six months following
the Credit closing date.
5.12      BTM would submit regular reports to the Government and to IDA, for
each quarter. These reports should include the results of monitoring studies,
and would be prepared by the Studies and Planning Department.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND PRICES
A. Technical Features of Production
6.01      The Project would be based on the promotion of well-known and
tested cultivation techniques, involving mainly the use of selected varieties,
the increased use of fertilizers and pesticides and improved techniques for
maintenance of existing plantations.
6.02      Existing coffee plantations would benefit from improved weeding,
shade and pruning techniques and from the application of fertilizer; yields



- 41 -
would be expected to increase from 300 kg/ha to 800 kg/ha. A similar increase
in yields would be achieved by regenerating older plantations, including stump-
ing trees and applying fertilizer. New plantations would be established using
selected plants and fertilizers; yields would be expected to reach 900 kg/ha
cloves, Project activities would be limited to promoting better maintenance
techniques on existing plantations; it is estimated that this would be suffi-
cient to boost yields from their present level of 300 kg/ha to 500 kg/ha
after three years. For vanilla, regular weeding of existing plantations
(1,500 plants/ha) and vine guidance should be sufficient to increase yields
from 300 kg/ha for green vanilla to 500 kg/ha. New plantations would be
established with optimum spacing (2,500 plants/ha) and the stakes would be
regularly pruned; with careful weeding and training of vines, yields should
reach 500 kg/ha after four years and 1,000 kg/ha after six years. New pepper
plantations would be established under conditions similar to vanilla; expected
yields would be 1,000 kg/ha for black pepper after six years. New cocoa
plantations would also be set up using selected plants and modern techniques
under a pattern similar to the one used for coffee. Production would begin
four years after planting, and yields would be expected to reach 800 kg/ha dry
beans after seven years. Existing sugarcane plantations would be improved
through the provision of fertilizers allowing an estimated increase of yields
from 30 t/ha to 40 t/ha. New plantations would be established after improved
soil preparation and fertilization, with selected varieties capable of yields
up to 50 t/ha. The crop yields mentioned above for export crops and sugar
cane are normally obtained by those local farmers who maintain their planta-
tion properly. Tree crops respond well to improved maintenance such as
weeding, adequate shading and pruning; response to small doses of fertilizers,
especially nitrogen, is exceptionally good. Higher yields than those assumed
are often obtained by progressive farmers, namely 1,000 kg/ha for regenerated
coffee, 1,200 kg/ha for well kept new coffee plantations, 600 kg/ha for
vanilla inter-planted with either crops, 1,200 kg/ha for pure stand vanilla
with correctly pruned support trees, 1,500 kg/ha for a uniformly planted cacao
plantation and 1,800 kg/ha for a uniform pepper plantation with adequate
support trees.
6.03      For foodcrops, no specific improvement package would be introduced
on the farms which would benefit from Project investments in export or indus-
trial crops. Yields would therefore probably remain about 1,200 kg/ha.
On the central plateaux, the Project would support a comprehensive agronomic
package for foodcrops, consisting of the introduction of selected varieties,
improvement of seeding and transplanting techniques and provision of
fertilizers for irrigated rice. Average yields would be expected to increase
from 1.5 t/ha to 3.5 t/ha of paddy after three years. The standards of rice
cultivation are generally better in the highlands than on the coast where rice
is grown by smallholders only for home-consumption, and this only since the
marketing system for rice has failed to supply consumer markets regularly. In
the highlands well kept transplanted paddy yields about 2 t/ha without
fertilizer use; in Fianarantsoa and Antananarivo faritanys, average paddy
yields in recent years were about 2.5 t/ha, and 3.1 t/ha for transplanted
paddy. As soon as fertilizers are applied the yield double. In the lowlands
small farmers could also obtain high yields with better care and the use of
fertilizers but they do not consider rice as a cash crop and pay little
attention to it. This may change in the future, but for the purpose of the
farm models no yield increase for paddy has been assumed. Animal traction



- 42 -
would be introduced and two oxen purchased for each farm, together with the
necessary equipment and the provision of veterinary services. Animal traction
would also be used for new planting of maize and groundnuts on "tanety" land;
this would be coupled with adequate anti-erosion measures, namely contour line
planting, terrassing, and adequate fallow.
B.   Farm Models
6.04      Eight simple farm models have been developed to represent the
types of crops to be developed under the Project. Six models are based on
export crops; the assumption is of a 1.6 ha holding with 0.5 ha devoted to
rice and 0.3 ha to fruit and vegetables which would not benefit from any
specific investments. For the two models based on coffee or cloves
regeneration, the total planted area would remain unchanged; for the other
models it would increase to 1.6 ha through new planting of 0.25 ha (pepper,
cocoa) or 0.5 ha (coffee, vanilla). One model is based on industrial crops,
with sugarcane as the cash crop; it includes the extension of the area planted
under sugarcane, from 1 ha to 2 ha, with the provision of inputs and improved
cultivation techniques on existing and new plantations. One model is based on
foodcrops in the central plateau area; it includes intensification of rice
cultivation on 0.9 ha of existing rice fields, the new planting of 0.8 ha of
maize and 0.8 ha of groundnuts on "tanety" land, together with the intro-
duction of animal traction on the total surface of 3.0 ha, slightly more than
twice the pre-Project figure. These projected increases in cultivated area
are based on observation of farmers who have already had access to credit
facilities.
C.   Production Estimates
6.05      At full development, incremental production of export crops result-
ing from Project activities is expected to amount to about 5,200 t of coffee,
1,000 t of cloves, 1,400 t of vanilla, 300 t of pepper and 250 t of cocoa,
representing between 6% (coffee, cloves, pepper) and 25% (vanilla) of present
production. Incremental sugarcane production would amount to about 80,000 t,
or 6% of present national production. Foodcrop production would also be
expected to increase by about 11,000 t of paddy, 14,000 t of maize and 9,000 t
of groundnuts; compared to present total production, this increase would be
significant for maize (10%) and groundnuts (20%); compared to the total
production figure of 2.0 million t paddy, the impact of the Project on paddy
production appears limited; however, this impact would be concentrated on the
central plateau where supply problems for foodcrops, mainly rice, are most
critical.
D.   Marketing
6.06      The incremental production of export crops would be marketed through
the existing channels, involving mainly parastatal trading companies (Chapter
II). The quantities involved would remain limited, and they are not expected



- 43 -
to place substantial additional burdens on existing structures. The zones
assisted under the Project would be chosen so as to minimize transport
problems after harvest (para. 7.11). Sugarcane production would be handled
by SIRAMA, under existing procedures, which would be improved by involving
SIRAMA in the organization of outgrowers associations (paras. 2.11 and 2.32).
6.07      For foodcrops, existing channels, through the fokonolona and para-
statal institutions, would be responsible for the marketing and processing
of production. Their present operations are not completely satisfactory and
this will require particular attention during Project implementation and
supervision. In addition, should the present price structure for paddy be
maintained by the Government, a substantial part of incremental paddy produc-
tion is likely to continue to be marketed through unofficial channels.
E.   Prices
6.08      The Project financial analysis was based on the present price
structure. Present producer prices would provide adequate revenues for
sugarcane, cloves and vanilla provided that, for the latter, they remain at
their actual level which is well above official prices. Although lending for
coffee, pepper, cocoa and foodcrops would not require a change in the official
prices, an increase of producer prices would make these crops more attractive
to growers; such an increase is to be particularly recommended for paddy,
since present official prices provide only marginal incentives to farmers for
increasing their output beyond home consumption. The problem of agricultural
prices will remain a major issue to be discussed in the framework of the
general sector dialogue which has been initiated with the Government.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government and IDA would
exchange views at least once a year on the price for the major crops to be
financed under the Project.
VII. BENEFITS, RISKS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Producers  and Social Benefits
7.01      The export crop component would benefit an estimated 25,000 families
whose cash income would more than double on average; typical farmers with 0.5
ha of rice and 0.75 ha of cash crops would achieve a net income of about
US$330 (FMG 70,000) to US$520 (FMG 110,000). Cash incomes for high value
cash crops such as vanilla would be higher and could reach US$3,000 for a
family cultivating one hectare of vanilla.
7.02      The industrial crop component would benefit a further 1,200 families
approximately, inducing an expansion of 1,200 ha of the areas cultivated under
sugarcane. The net cash income of sugarcane growers would more than double,
reaching US$850 equivalent.



- 44 -
7.03      About 6,000 families would benefit directly from the foodcrop
component of the Project. Their production of paddy would nearly be tripled,
maize and groundnuts cultivation would be introduced, and farmers would
be able to switch to cultivation with draft animals. Net cash revenues, which
are presently n.--existent ior all practical purposes, would reach about FMG
50I,000 (US$240) a year per family. In addition, the availability of oxen for
rental would allow other farmers to switch to draft cultivation and increase
their productivity and their output.
7.04      Labor.  In total, about 31,400 low income smallholder families would
benefit from the Project, some of whom, namely foodcrop farmers, would have a
regular cash income for the first time. In addition, 1,800,000 mandays of
hired labor would be generated annually, corresponding to about 7,000 permanent
jobs. These opportunities for hired labor would have a significant social
impact since they involve mainly migrant workers; most of these migrants come
from the southern region which is the poorest area of Madagascar, and where
development opportunities are constrained by the lack of of natural resources.
B.  BTM Financial Position
7.05      Ten year financial projections with the Project show that BTM
will operate profitably and its financial condition would continue to be
satisfactory. At Project year 10, net income before taxes would be increased
fivefold while the percentage of earning assets would have gradually increased
from 1.2% in Project year 1 to 2.5%, indicating substantially improved
profitability. After deducting taxes and dividends, BTM's earnings would
increase from FMG 224 million in Project year 1 to FMG 1,103 million in
Project year 10. The resulting increase in retained earnings would be
reflected in an increase in equity funds from FMG 5,567 million to FMG 12,982
over the same period. If the Government agrees to increase BTM's share
capital, as recommended, the ratio of equity to total assets would increase
from 11% to 16% during the ten Project years. This would be dloser to the
target ratio of 30% which is considered adequate for a development bank with
BTM's asset mix. The ratio at the end of the period would be further improved
to about 22% if the Government did not collect any dividends from BTM.
Liquidity as measured by total loans and investments over current liabilities
would be satisfactory as that ratio would improve slightly from 1.04 in
Project year 1 to 1.06 in Project year 10 and would exceed 1 each year.
Working capital would be relatively high in Project years 3 through 7 and then
decline gradually because long term debt would be also reduced. The financial
projections show an annual funds deficit from Project year 2 through 5. The
cumulative deficit is substantial and peaks in Project year 4 at FMG 8,465
million or 10.5% of total assets. It is, therefore, recommended that BTM
increase its capital to FMG 6,000 million by the same year. This analysis is
based on the critical assumption that BTM's loan portfolio, including Project
operations, would double in ten years, as its agricultural loan volume would
increase while commercial loan volume would decline. Tables 5-10 provide
additional information on BTM's financial position.



- 45 -
Government Debt to BTM
7.06      BTM inherited an estimated FMG 1,400 million of bad debts from BNM
and it has advanced about FMG 500 million from its own funds to finance
special operations on behalf of the Government. Problems had arisen in the
past because of a difference of view between the Government and BTM on the
precise amount of this debt and on the arrangements for its liquidation.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that, beginning in 1981, the
Government would fully amortize its indebtedness to BTM in four equal annual
installments.
C.   Government Benefits
7.07      Benefits directly resulting from the Project would mostly consist
of increased production of export and industrial crops and foodcrops.
Additional government expenditures would be minimal. Additional direct
benefits to the Government would be obtained from BTM's profits and dividends
paid to the Government, and from increased export revenues. At full develop-
ment, in Project year 10, incremental gross revneues of the stabilization
funds would be annually about FMG 520 million (US$2.5 million) from coffee
exports, and about FMG 300 million (US$1.4 million) from clove exports; these
estimates are based on projected world export prices and present guaranteed
export prices. Indirect financial benefits might be derived from taxes on the
processing industries resulting from increased production of paddy and sugar.
Local fokonolona institutions would derive additional revenues through market-
ing commissions on incremental agricultural production. Foreign exchange
savings would result from increased exports (coffee, cloves, vanilla, pepper,
cocoa, sugar) or reduced imports (rice).
7.08      Additional benefits, which would be felt beyond the immediate
Project beneficiaries, would result from a better organization of extension
services especially for vanilla, cocoa and sugarcane. The setting up of new
plantations or the rehabilitation of existing ones using modern and efficient
techniques is expected to have a substantial demonstration effect for all
farmers in the Project areas.
D.   Economic Analysis
7.09      The economic rate of return from directly productive elements of the
Project is estimated at about 60%. All direct Project investment costs were
included in the analysis. Loan administration costs have been estimated at
10% of the outstanding balance of BTM loans. Costs of farm labor were included
in the analysis; the opportunity cost of labor has been estimated at the
average value of FMG 350/manday, close to the prevailing official wage rate.



- 46 -
Foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at FMG 235/US$ 1/ to reflect
more accurately the scarcity value of foreign exchange. Extension costs have
not been included in incremental Project costs, since the arrangements sup-
ported under the Project would involve a better use of existing resources
rather than mobilization of new resources. Economic prices for agricultural
goods were estimated on the basis of commodity price forecasts; -atest price
data for Malagasy imports and exports have been taken into account, especially
for certain high value crops such as cloves, vanilla or pepper. All benefits
were systematically lagged by one year. Economic rates of retura for indivi-
dual crops and groups of crops were calculated. For export crops, the
economic rate of return is estimated at about 88%, at about 27% for industrial
crops, and at about 28% for foodcrops. Economic rates of return for individual
crops range from more than 100% for vanilla to 13% for new pepper plantations.
7.10      The economic rate of return for the whole project was tested for
sensitivity. If costs were to increase by 10 and 20%, the economic rate of
return would decrease by 6 and 15 percentage points respectively. However, if
,zrop prices or yields were to increase by 10 and 20%, the economie rate of
return would increase by 7 and 12 percentage points respectively. The switch-
ing values have been calculated at 190% for costs and 60% for benefits,
using an opportunity cost of capital of 10%. Individual and groups crops were
also tested for sensitivity. For export crops, under the combined assumption
that production costs would increase by 20%, and yields decrease by 20% and
production start with a two year delay, the economic rate of return would
decrease by about 50 percentage points from 88% to 35%. For industrial and
foodcrops, a 20% increase in production costs would lower the rate of returns
from 27% to 15%, and from 28% to 20% respectively. The sensitivity analysis
therefore highlights the general soundness of the investments proposed under
the Project, even with major change in the structure of costs and benefits.
E. Risks
7.11      The success of Project implementation would depend on three major
factors. The first would be the provision of adequate extension services and
the availability of inputs, mainly fertilizers and pesticides. This is a
critical sector issue in Madagascar, and is a particularly acute problem for
foodcrop producers; it would not be possible or advisable to address it in the
]Limited context of the proposed Project, but steps have been taken to offset
these risks: (a) OCP, which is an experienced extension agency, would be made
responsible for extension and provision of inputs for all export crops includ-
ing vanilla and cocoa; (b) experienced sugar companies such as SIRAMA would be
put in charge of organizing and providing extension services to sugarcane
outgrowers supported by the Project; and (c) in all cases, and particularly
for foodcrops, loans would be granted only to fokontany where BTM is satisfied
that extension services and inputs are available to farmers.
7.12      Another critical factor is related to producer prices and marketing.
Although the Project is viable under the present structure of producer prices,
1/ The official exchange rate is FMG 210/US$.



- 47 -
increases in producer prices of coffee, pepper and paddy would undoubtedly
improve its results. Difficult and complex problems are involved (para 6.08)
and slow progress must be expected through a continuing dialogue with the
Government. Marketing problems are also serious; risks would be reduced to a
minimum by selecting Project areas in zones where easy road transportation is
available; the responsibility for the availability of inputs and extension
services would be specified under an agreement, the signature of which would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
7.13      The performance of BTM as a development bank, and its relations
with fokonolona institutions, would also be a critical factor in the success
of the Project. Again, this risk is offset by the sound management of BTM in
past years, but it would be essential that a continuing dialogue on BTM's
management and procedures be maintained throughout the Project implementation
period.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
8.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations:
(a) Financing arrangements for the Project (para 4.16);
(b)  Regarding BTM accounts:
(i) That BTM's accounting plan would be partially redesigned
before September 1, 1981 to permit a rational analysis of
the agricultural loan portfolio and financial ratios;
(ii)  That BTM would maintain separate accounts adequate to show
the utilization of Project funds; and
(iii)  That BTM accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and that the report would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year
(para 4.19);
(c)  That the Government would consult with IDA prior to making any
significant change in BTM's management structure, basic operat-
ing procedures, or statutes, and would inform IDA in advance of
other significant proposed changes such as the establishment of
an Orientation Council for the Banking and Financial Sector and
a separate Management Committee for BTM (para 5.02);
(d)  Regarding staffing and training:
(i) That BTM would engage a qualified financial analyst for
its headquarters and additional data processing staff;



- 48 -
(ii) That the terms of reference and conditions of employment
of the consultants for the training program and the Data
Base Management System study would be submitted to IDA
for approval (para 5.03);
(e) That during the Project implementation period the Government
would seek IDA's approval prior to:
(i)  modifying the agreement between BTM and MDRRA and the
FMR program; and
(ii) introducing any significant change in the design or
operating procedures for the FMR program (para 5.04);
(f) That BTM would carry out a full appraisal of all clients'
creditworthiness and the viability of loan proposals for all
its operations, and would receive an adequate remuneration to
cover its administrative expenses for operations on account of
third parties (para 5.05);
(g) That BTM would carry out an in depth appraisal of the financial
and economic viability of proposed investments for food crop
development for each region where significant lending for
such activities is to be undertaken and that BTM would lend
for such activities only where their economic viability can
be demonstrated, and where appropriate extension services
exist and adequate supplies of required inputs are available
(para 5.06);
(h) Regarding BTM's interest rate structure as set out in para
5.08; and that the Government would consult wlth IDA on BTM
interest rates for Project lending activities at least once a
year (para 5.08);
(i) That the Borrower would exchange views with IDA on BTM's
monitoring and evaluation system for the smallholder credit
scheme no later than June 30, 1981 (para 5.11);
(j) That the Government would prepare a completion report on the
Project and submit it to IDA no later than six months following
the credit closing date (para 5.11);
(k) That the Borrower would exchange views with IDA on the prices
for the principal crops financed under the Project at least
once a year (para 6.08); and
(1) that the Government would fully amortize its indebtedness to
BTM in four annual installments beginning in 1981 (para 7.06).
8.02      It would be a condition of Board Presentation that an audit report
on BTM's 1978 accounts has been submitted to, and found acceptable by, IDA
(para 4.19).



- 49 -
8.03      Condition of credit effectiveness would be (i) that a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and BTM, approved by IDA, had been
signed (para 4.16); (ii) that a Protocole d'Accord had been signed between
BTM and the MDRRA (para 5.04); arrangements for extension services for vanilla
growers to be vested in the Operation Cafe Poivre (OCP) and for sugarcane
growers with the major sugar companies such as SIRAMA (para 5.09) would be
part of the Protocole d'Accord.
8.04      It would be a condition of credit disbursement for each year's
program for experimental credit that a detailed program of activities had
been approved by IDA prior to the beginning of the season (para 5.07).
8.05      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
to the Government of Madagascar on standard IDA terms.
July 7, 1980



- 50 -
Table/Tableau l
MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICUITURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                      PREMIER PROJET DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
Sumarv of Annual Prolect Costs                                   Récapitulatif des Couts Annuels du Projet
(FM iillion)                                                       (en millions de FMG)
Foreign Exchange/Devises
----- Year/Annee ----         Total    Amount          %
1         2          3         1-3    Montant
Prolect Componenc                                                                                     Composante du Proiet
(a)  Seasonal Credit                                                                                  (a)  Crddit saisonnier
Coffee                        43.7       52.4       93.2     192.9       98.3         51               Cafe'
Cloves                        11.0       16.5       27.8      55.3        -            -              Girofle
Vanilla.                                  6.3       14.8       21.1       -             -              Vanille
Sugar Cana                    94         29.2      60.5       99.0       85.8         87              Canne a Sucre
Rice                          56.7       89.8      153.6     300.1      156.6         52              Riz
Groundnuts and Maize           -         32.1       82.0     114.1       75.8         66              Arachide et Mais
Sub-Total                  124.4     226.3      431.9      782.5      416.5         53                Sous-total
(b)  >Xedium Torm Credit                                                                              (b)  Crédit moyen-terme
Coffee                         7.2       18.9      43.3       69.4       37.8         54              cafe'
Sugar Cane                    20.5       51.4      82.1      154.0      136.9         89              Canne dSucre
Animal Traction              171.7      257 8     429.3      858.6      199.8         23               Traction animale
Sub-Total                  199.4     328.1      554.7   1,082.0       374.5         35                Sous-total
(c)  Long Term Credit                                                                                 (c)  Crédit long-terme
Coffee                        18.3       31.2       56.1     105.5       20.7         20              Cafe
Vanilla                        -         40.2      108.8     149.0        6.0          4              Vanille
Pepper                        10.3       18.5      33.5       62.3        8.3         13              Poivre
Cocoa                          3.7        6.6       12.0      22.3        6.5         29              Cacao
Sub-Total                   32.3      96.5      210.4      339.1       41.5         12                Sous-total
(d)  Experimental Credit            17         32         58       107.0       40.4         38        (d)  Cre'dit expe'rimental
(e)  Staff Training                 44.2       45.2      44.2       93.6       93.6        100        (e)  Formation du personnel
(f)  Logistic Support               10.9        8.2        -        19.1       19.1        100        'f)  Appui logistique
(g)  Consultant Services             -          8.3        -         8.3        8.3        100        (g)  Services de consultants
Total base Project Coats         428.2      744. 6   1,259.2   2,431.6      993.5         41          Totaldes coûts de baae du Projet
Contingenl~  AloaasProvisions pour dépassement dea
Price -                         25.7      139.4     385.2      550.3      220.1         40          prix ai
Total Project Coats              453.9      884.0   1.644.4   2,981.6   1,214.0           41          Total Cou ts Projet
a/  Price contingencies based on an average inflation   a/  Imprévus basés sur un taux d'inflationmoyen de 12% en CY 1980 et 1981,
rate of 12Z in CY 1980 and 1981, 10% in CY 1982.            10% en CY 1982.
b/  Totals may not exactly coincide because of              b/  Les taex peuvent ne pas colncider exactement, les chiffres
rounding of figures.                                        ayant eté arrondis.



- 51 -                    Table/Tableau 2
MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT/PREMIER PROJET DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
Estimated Disbursement Schedule          Calendrier estimatif des décaissements
IDA Fiscal Year                Cumulative Disbursement at
and Quarter                           End of Quarter                    Exercise at
Décaissements cumulatifs              trimestre IDA
(US$'000)
1980/81                                                                 1980/81
September 30, 1980 1/                                                   30 septembre 1980 1/
December 31, 1980                            -                          30 décembre 1980
March 31, 1981                               -                          31 mars 1981
June 30, 1981                                500                        30 juin 1981
1981/82
September 30, 1981                           600                        30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981                          1,400                        31 décembre 1981
March 31, 1982                             1,850                        31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982                              2,700                        30 juin 1982
1982/83
September 30, 1982                         3,550                       30 septembre 1982
December 31, 1982                          4,450                        31 décembre 1982
March 31, 1983                             5,550                        31 mars 1983
June 30, 1983                              6,700                        30 juin 1983
1983/84
September 30, 1983  2/                     7,900                       30 septembre 1983  2/
December 31, 1983                          9,200                        31 décembre 1983
March 31, 1984  3/                        10,500                        31 mars 1984  3/
June 30, 1984                             11,500                        30 juin 1984 3/
1/ Expected Date of Effectiveness January 31, 1981/ Date prévue pour entree en
vigueur, le 31 janvier 1981.
2/ Expected Date of Completion, December 31, 1983/ Date prévue pour achèvement du
projet, 31 décembre 1983.
3/ Expected Closing Date,June 30, 1984/ Date de cleture, juin 30, 1984
April 7, 1980                                                      Le 7 avril 1980



MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PR0JECT                                  PREMIER PROJET DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
Schedule of Participating Farmers by Category of Loan                Schéma d'entrée des paysans par catégorie de credit
Farms                      Farms                      Farms                  Modèle
Farm            Total No.   entering in PY1 (1980)   entering in PY2 (1981)   entering in PY3 (1982)               d'exploitation
Model           of Farms
% of total       Number   % of total        Number   % of total        Number
Regenerated
Coffee             4,800         20             960         30           1,440         50            2,400         Café régénere'
New Coffee         2,400         20             480         30             720         50            1,200         Cafe nouveau
Cloves             7,500         20           1,500         30           2,250         50            3,750         Girofle
Vanilla            2,400          -              -          30              720        70            1,680         Vanille
Pepper             1,200         20             240         30             360         50              600         Poivre
Cocoa              1,200         20             240         30             360         50              600         Cacao
Sugar Cane         1,200         10             120         30             360         60              720         Canne a Sucre
Foodcrops          6,000         20           1,200         30           1,800         50           3,000          Cultures vivrières
Total           26,700         18           4,740         30           8,010         52          13,950            Total
Nombre       % du total       Nombre   % du total        Nombre   % du total       Nombre
total
d'exploi                 ------------ Exploitations entrant en ---------------------
tations    premiere année du projet  deuxieme annee du projet  troisieme annee du projet
(1980)                      (1981)                       (1982)
March 10, 1980                                                                                              le 10 mars, 1980    c



MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Proposed Fees and Corresponding Interest Rates for BTM
Commissions et taux d'intérêtséquivalentsproposés pour le. BTM
Maturity                  Grace Period      No. of       Corresponding Interest
Type of Loan                       (Years)       Fee           (Years)       Tranches       Rate on Principal
Type de prêt                     Echéances   Commission       Différé         No. de      Taux d'intérêt équivalent
(Années)       (%)       d'amortissement déblocages   sur le montant principal
(Années)                              (%)
Short Term/Court terme                          1       1% a month          0             1                    12
Medium Term/Moyen terme
Coffee regeneration/Régénération
du café                                       5            "t             2              3                   15.1          I
Sugar cane planting/Plantation de
la canne à sucre                              4            "               2            1                    13.4
Animal traction/Traction animale                5            "               2             1                   14.2
Long terme/Long terme
Vanilla plantation/plantation de
vanille                                       7            "               3            4                    15.2
Coffee plantation/plantation de
café                                          7                           4              3                   14.1
Pepper plantation/plantation de
poivre                                        9            "              4             4                    14.7
Cocoa plantation/plantation de cacao            9                            5             5                   14.1
April 7, 1980                                                                                       le 7 avril 1980



MA8,ACASCAA                                                                                                      iha5TI15 
Fins' ACRICttLTUtA'. ClUtD11 pa<ijia                                                                                                                                     IMPR3NIER PROJET DE CREDI? A*RICOLE
loi@| <au  ud Iuu et .rurndo                                  rr-r .                                                                                                                  t ftluot Suppleacciaîras
(FVa   bilîlI)                                                                                                                                                             (F-,  Ilîhlîot)
1979          1980          19dl           1982          1911          a98'4         198$           1988           1987           1988          1989
Profits sitar lai  1/                              447            183           532         1.010         1,368          1,721         1.718         1.942           2,033         2,115          2.202                 Prof (.  îsqt>iic  1/
lioeprncîaîiuu                                     132           139            137           146           140            122           133           111             111           Ib2            ILI                 Aasrtt.ats
Provisions  B1'M                                     8           438            470           400           394            169           311           211             253           211            156                 Pnuvîloca 8TH
PCA Proîrc          t-                         _        3            17           60             4             -                           -               -             -              -                               4CA Projt
I orîses  ta In epo" its                         4,498         5,167         5,234          5,833         6,591         5,730         6,301          6,933          6.863          7,481        8,154                    Agsitîati- d1p4t6
auJ Cash Carîluîcatao                                                                                                                                                                                                    Coapîs. 3 vn. Bous I. CaIsse
Ionraaae lu Uorriiuîogs                                                                                                                                                                                                 Âugaaatariossciprunta
Medlur tara                                        Il)          (15)           (hl)          t6)           -             (21)           -             -               -             -              -                     I6iyaa Coron
1long taon  I/                                 2,035           322           ("I)           (43)           (54)          <63)         (141)         (1139)          (136)         (124)        (110)                     LoDg tura
Gturooenii 6I1io^tlil Ili                                                                                                                                                                                                kllooatboi du Goouvoritacnt pour
Capital I trraasa  5/-                                         25h            534         1,07S                    -             -             -              -                     -              -                     oogao ntaîîou de capîtol
Total Soirrai                                    7,111         6.505         6,901          h,476         8,443          7,660         8,322         9,058           9,124         9,785        10,503                   Total  Rassus-rt..  Supplit aores
USFS                                                                                                                                                               C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~opiai S
LUSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Augasotatlos net ta ro/dîu
aiutin0 Slort tors  41                         2,892        17840         10,840         71840          8,840         3,840         6,840          4,640          5,640         4,640          3.640                     Court tara  enlstanta   3/
tolstug M dl    tenut  4/                        613           600         1,037         1,120             33            31            31             30             29             32            33                     .oyas tara  aultaat    A/
auîstiug Long tors5/                             (59)          (59)           (75)          (9I)         (107)         (120)           44             28             12             _             _                      Long t-r_ soleîasîa    -
FruiluCi l ,,Oti                                                                                                                                                                                                         Asgasuratîu.t cutI. arédaie  do ProJot
ihort ter                                         -            124           226            432            43            (17)         (249)         (139)            (90)           -            (66J                    Cos.t tatsn
Madio  tara                                       -            199            328           555           (62)          (138)         (209)         (302)           (107)           -             (26)                   hoyeL. c-tna
Loit  ita-                                                      32            97            210            91             77            (2)         (121)           (137)         (128)           (913)                  Lst  ta-os
lIon Iitaobiio t axlor s                            -            107            322           170            -              -            10l           148              -             -              -                   3o6011tsOua nouve 110
olvîduntls  7/                                     223            91           266            505           684            862           859           971         1,016          1,057          1,101                  Dfivdand.  Z/
'lonsI Osos                                   3,669          8,934        13,041        10,741          9,522         4,534         7,415          5,255          6.363         5,601          4,589                    Total taplola  Supplaéontsîra
Surplo (va¢flcît)                              3.444        (2,429)       (6,140)        (2,265)       (1,079)        3,126            907         3,803          2.761          4.184         5,914                    Iuriduuî<Ii6tIt(
Ct,.,oI.ttlvr Surplo. (Ovf«iclt       3,444         1,025         (5,125)       (7.390)       (8,469)        (5,343)       (4,436)         (633)         2,128          6,312        12,226                              CatIS
I/ SIr 1a lîr I                                                                                                                                                             1/ Votr Tabluso .7
22/ A I  unslunto  ds- vr8ditt  108.  Volt Tobl.a  52.
2/ Isicloolos of PLIA Cradisto   3éfDDe   y8Hatr17                                                                                                                           / A 1'*clssîoo da otédftt  PCA tlasarés pot Is 319 après 1919.
tuvloslva of PCO Cradîta lu ha ttoonrad ho 819 sitar 1919. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    'A         ëO  -   .  m pt. 179
.7  ton ouîoau tf PCA tredi ts to ho fl.n-rd by 8TH sftar 1979                                                                                                              4/ A IcuvtsiusOa ds onidta Pét f Inunce2 ta la lTM aprs 1929
5   toclouD,f ut PCA oro,ltu ru ha  ir scod by BTM  fts r 1919                                                                                                              j! A IOlOstou ds  or801t PCA fiso.nes par -a 1Ti uprés 1979.
-/O    elllcwlr74lIDpu  lrp   e nt a7îîîîItou.                                                          4/ UD ondlnstoor roglasal 14 atillous plus ra pla..n4nt d'un vahloo.o 2) ailI2ons
i/  Ses T.blo 7                                                     27 V1U T.b    7
d/  Pari of th. IDA  -rait              fon usah 1          osne.                                                                                                           82/ P-rtîi  du rrédit ID  p.Su-  pour Is pnita ouu potit. pisurs
Hi n'6 5, 19dO                                                                                                                                                               la 5 aat  1988



718R1 à08RICLSTURAL CRI13T PROJICt                                                                                                                         PRlEl aeEI? Pl PROJET CUB915.
Proie.Wd. DÉ  .... 9w.ts                                                                                                                                                 9JSAUOI
(WC80  ltlIon.)                                                                                                                                          <pis  80lîîee)
AS6STS                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ACTIF
1978         1979         1980          1981         1982          1983         1984         1985          1986           1987        1988         1989
Cu.. nt   bAnet                            6.720       10,164         9,757        6.739        6,770         6,785        6,908         6.824        6,791          8,301       12.971      19,08                      CU4..  t b nqun
RI.e,ibl.e A*ounot-                        3,888         3,888        3,888         3.888        3,888         3,888        3,888        3 d88         3,888          3,888        3,888       3.888                   8Ébibtauv  dir-s
ùort-ters Credite                                                                                                                                                                                                      CIdte à court tee
8T11                           31,364        34,256       42,096        52,936       60,776        69.616       73.456       80,296        84,936         90,576       95,216     98.656                      STr
Pro-Jit                        3                 -           124           350          782           825          808          559           420            330           34         260                      reJet
35.253  38,144  46.108       5~-7.17      6-5-,446      7i4.3-29      79O. 112     8,7-43        89,244         94,794       99.434    802.808
Medlnm-itev  oinse                                                                                                                                                                                                     Crédite à  ".n tara
BTH                             4,078         4,691        5,291         6,328        7,448         7,481        7,512        7,543         7,573          7,602        7,634       7.667                     ST18
frojeet                            -             -           199           527        1,062         1,020          882          673           371            264          264       - 238                     Prejet
Tren..vy bonde                                929          329           329          929           929          929           929          929          929            929           929        929                   Titre  (I.. du Ur6..r)
'-n
655g-t-r- 1°Tn-                 1.095         1,036          977           902          811           704          584          628           656            668          668         668                     82I8
ProjenI                             -            -            32           129          339           430          507           505          384            247          119          26                     prejet
tenbtfn1 Sabte                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cr&aena. dantn.-.
C bTI                           1,892         1.999        2,486         3.008        3.452         3,890        4,078        4,423         4,658          4,939        5,173       5,347                     8288
Projont                             -            -             13           50          110           114          110            87           59             42            36         26                     Pr'jet
Provialon fur doubttnl debt.                                                                                                                                                                                          Prnviaîne  pour - reenne. doutena..
BTI                            (1,791)      (1,799)       (2,237)      (2,707)      (3,107)       (3,501)      (3,670)       (3,981)      (4,192)        (4,445)       (4,656)    <4,812)                    *TI
Promect                             -            -            (13)         (S0)        (110)         (114)         (110)         (87)          (59)          (42)          (36)       (26)                    Pr-Jet
Inv- ent                                       71           71           71            71           71            71           71            71           71             71            71         71                  P.rttclp.tinn.
Fi-ed AÀ.et.                                1,770        1,770        1.877         2,199        2.369         2,369        2,369         2,470        2.618          2,618         2,618      2,618                   I.obîîli.ttn-
D pvectin~                                 <(1,.005)    (1,137)      (1,276)       (1,413)      (1,559)       (1,699)      (1,821)       (1,954)      (2,065)        (2,176)       (2.278)    (2,379)                 Aovnie entr
Na a.ed FPnde                                            1,942        1,942         1,9            1,9         1,942        1,942         1.942         J             1             1.942      1,942                         F1rd.e 9od  1ff.1tii.
Total  e..:.                    50,953       57,810       66,156        75,828       85.993        94,750       98,443       104,816      108,980        116,354       124,889    134,204                      TotU Acti1
5 Mrvh, 1980,                                                                                                                                                                                                         le 5  re  1980.



MASACASCAR
FIRST ACRICSLTU&AL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                            PREIIER PROJET DE CREOIT AGICCOLE
Prolectad 8B1ancé  sets                                                                                                                        Bilan Pr&visîooalI
(FH' Million)                                                                                                                                (FM'' MillIon)
LIABILITIES                                    1978         1979         1980          1981         1982          1983         1984         1985          1986          1987         1988        1989                    PASSIF
CLURBET  LIABILITIE8                                                                                                                                                                                                     EYICIBLI COURTERE
Re-od Ilepout.                             20,976        24,122       27,748        31,190       35,245        39,826       43,809       48,190        53,009        57,780       62,980      68,648                     Bepft.ivu
Tr.e  Repoalto                               7,309        8.408        9.666        11,116        12,561       141941       15.613        17,174       18,891         20.591      22,444       24,464                    dptt. a t-
Cnuh CertLicot.a                             1.687        1.940       2,231          2,565        2,898         3.275        3.603        3.962         4.359         4f751        5J79         5.645                     hu  da usfsc
29,972       34,470       19,637        44,871       50,704        57,295       63,025        69,326       76,259        83,122       90,6023      98737
8 aba ad corranpcodeor.                      3.667        3,667        3,667         3,667        3.667         3.667        3,667         3,667        3,667          3,667       3,667        3,667                     anqo  eatcorrapondanr
Radiscoont .aRth Central Boul,               3,064        3.064        3,064         3,064        3,064         3,064        3.064         3,064        3,064         3,064 3,064              3,064 3,0c4                    -         ra la Baqua Canral
AccoUotn p.uylo                              3,179        3,223        6,026         4,211        4,238         4,314        4,239         4,514        4,478          4,646       4,678       4 755                     CrAditcors d-veu
Tu  Payable il                                 269          252           103          299           588          770          969           967        1,093          1,143       1,190        1,239                    I.p&ta i poyar  il
Dteidunda Payabl  l/                          143           223           91           266          505           684          861           859          971          1,016       1,057        1 101 J                   ididoudasopaysr  1/
10,322       10,429       12,951        11,507       12,042        12,499       12,819        13,071       13,273         13.536       13,656      13.826
IE Dl6 M   TER H LIAJILITI I  P/ISI IBLE  A   5831E     T                                                                                                                                                                                    Ea   2   I
Rodleonoçnt oîtb Central Baak                2,297        2,297        2,297         2,297         2,297        2,297        2.297         2,297        2,297          2.297       2,297        2,297                     .nauco  pta HT *cnqun Canra
Madîos. tors. RonronAnge                        57           50            35           27            21           21          -             -            -              -      -                 -                      ERptant HT
LOFC11 TRS LIABILITSES  3j                                                                                                                                                                                               HYICIBLE A LOh'C0 TEIMG               jL/
Long Tar  aorrofoas                          1,522        3.557         3,879        3,844         3,801        3,747        3,684         3,543        3,404          3,268       3,144        3,034                     Br.nt  4 long ter c"
Oth-r Long Tors.  orroel to bu fouad  5/         -            -             -          5,125         7,390        8,465         5.343        4,436          633            -            -           _                      Autra .wrunrs     oAag imatmai
Capital  4/                                  2,697        2,697         2,955        3,489        4.565         4,565        4,565         4.565        4,565          4,565        4,565       4,565                     Capital  PI
Bouettes [i                                  2,276        2.276         2,276        2,216         2,216        2,236         2,276        2.276        2.276          2,776         2,276       2et76                   B8sarvu nI Praviaous
Ratoînea lrolugo                               370          594           686          952         1,457        2,141        3.003         3,862        4,833          5,850        6.908       8,009                    Profita non rapartîn
MHongad rnda                                 1.440      11440 1,440                  14440         I 440        1.44o         1                     440 I 440           _            1440       16440                    Pondu  ffaRts
Tota1 Liabilitls aud Equlty                 50,953       57,810       66,156        75,828       85,993        94.750       9S,443       104,816      108l 980       116,354       124,889    134,204                     panaIt  total
/  lue Tabl  7,                                                                                                                                      1/ Voir tablaso 7,                                                                          e
3/ To bu Round by 8TH, nut of IDA .r.dit thb  procadu oR                                                                                              2/ VoIr  -Tbloao 5.                C t
.hi.h h.- bn ... ..pit.li..d yc-ly                                                                                                            -/  A      tor par la bT, nat do CrudOt 206 dont                                             r!
4/ us Tblb bae    b, oth   Icapr ollu   yaorly,a i -l »   e t _t d o   h  b                                                                               o  nt to  4r   o p lînt ni ué  una ua lsoaant.  lu   t
.4/  So  Tabla 9,  hb  i ..cr.as. le, BTM's capitat          th u                                                                                4/  Vol  TubStuc 9, lco         n     d a      l de lTol
o  aul  10.0 Mi1Ilo  IDA  rdit.  Rua.t    ut  ilr     basa db   crn IDA du US10,0  Illon   Lu   ntnt
dect ocra raport-   doos 1  rapport fin
April 8, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                         la 8 avil 1988



MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                                           PREMIER PROfET DE CREDI  AGRICOLE
Projected Profit ond test Ancouî.l                                                                                                                          Comptes de Re'sultatF PrdoE,lonneel
(PMG Million)                                                                                                                                              <PIC MîllonI
1978          1979           1980           1981           1982           1983          1984            1985           1986           1987          1988           1980
OPERATING EXPENSES  L/                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ChARGES D'EXPLOITATIUN  il
Itn-eest and Coemisions paid                        955        lOSI           1,196          1,325          1,2,56        1,597          1,743           1,892         2,047          2,209          2,378          2,563              Interete et  Coosoions payéns
Provils-o  for doobtfol doebs                    1,144               8           451            507            46E            198           169             311            211            253            211            156            Peonisio's cour creances dontetie,
Other changes                                        20             20            20             20             20             20            20              20             20             20             20             20            Antres ehergon
2,159         1,079          1,667          1,852          1,936         2,015          1,932           2.223         2,278          2.482          2,609          2,739
ADYINISTRATIVE EY0PENSSE                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DEPENSIE5 ADMINISRAI IVES
StaGE exopondieures                              1,381          1,581          1,710          1,754          1,798         1,839          1,897           1,963         2001           2,030          2,R77          2,116             _1(ense, de personnel
Overheads                                           579            723           942          1,138          1,296         1,439          1,493           1,59S          1,665          1,214         1,816          1,N68              Frsts genéraom
Depr-oticion nf Eiond aenset                        122            132            139           137            146            140           122             133           1Il             111            102            lii             As,ntissemeete
2,082         2,436          2,791          3,029          3,240         3,414          3,512           3,691          3,777          3,855          3,995         4,085
Totel Empenesm                                    4.241          3,515         4,458          4,881          S,176          5,429         5,444           5,914          6,055          6,337          6,606         6,824              TntFl d-s Charges
lNCOME  i/                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PRODEUITS   1/
InterestR and Commsission eeiveled on                                                                                                                                                                                                  77ires  t co,si,eions oses.
Shoet Tm   Loe,ss                                 2,873         2,953          3,451          4,321          5,216         5,981          6,551           7,017          7,502          7,948         8,391          8,754              CréditE l ouet term
Mndion otin Loess                                 I,323            383           416            511            647            695           695             691            684            670            628            632             Crédits moyeu terme
Long Cern  Lneee                                      3             24            73             76             87             87            86              82             90             91             88             77             Cre-dis long cerne
4,199          3,410         3.940          4,908          5,990         6,763          7,332           7,795          8,276          8,709         9S.m7           9,461
E... .ed  oeetnonlean                                 7228           728            7228           72            728            728            728             722            728            728           728           7228             Prodai. iunier
ehler In-oe                                         76             726            76             72            76              76             6               6             276            76            726             76            An tres  sodoits
NRt Incom   irom_ re-o11î yer                                                   -              -                                                                            _ -                                                        Prodnl tsencsur  les-  ereis-eset   nsrieur
Grecs Eoîo-                                       5,003         4,214          4,744          9,712          6,752          7,567         8,136           8,599          9,890          9,513          9,911         10,265             Total Prodeite
NET 10C3d0E BEFORE TAX                                782            699            206           831          1.578          2,13d         2.692           2,685          3,035          3.176        32,M05           i 44!            ESULTATS NETS AVANT IMPUR
Tee (36%)                                           269            252           103            299            568            770           969             967          1,o95          1,143          1,190          1,239             Inp-ots (361
NET  lNCCME AFTER TMA                                 513            447            183            53?         1,010          1,368         1,723           1,718          1,942          2,033          2,115          2.202           RPSIIITATS NETS APRES IMP03`
Dividende                                           143            223             91           288            505            684           861             859            971          1,V16         1,057          1,101              Daiîdeeds'
RoteRind ERrnnEtg  fRo  thc year                    33E            224             92           266            505            684           862             859            971          1,017          1,058         1,101              Pro-fis 000  -epse-i,               R
/  Operating  Epenses and I.e onn len  îolnl d oo the basIs nEf f-e  equivalnt toantiterest  rte                                     1,   Gsstgos d>nnpleitasion et Produits   In lués sot la base de ro-eission-   ensot                           d oe cane d' ietdrer  r
aofliel  ner 125. ne ootstoedtgRaleace oR bans.  actuel Rl1see, -a-  narys lîlt-y au-lfd-ng                                            le monteot -nt  re-bo..sé des prèts lég.e.enen  sopenioe i         12'.  Les  RIREres reelF foutroNt leg2rement
En thc evolstion nf the str .c-uro of interescestes.                                                                                   différer-  fe-otion de levoluon de la.stenetore des taoN d'interèt.
July 3, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                               L.e 3 jUilet  980



FIRP T AGRICULIVJRAL TRDIT PROJECT/P8flIlR PROJET DE CREDIT AGRIIILE
8.1 leteaze le IneT  ProlecC Leodi.e                                                                                                                                                  Auamnettion natte 4e crc. da projet
8TH4 Finanelal Revenue*                                                                                                                                                               Revenu. finanniere de la  SeH
(PFHC 'L00)(PC 0<
ShortRT.                                                                                       - 2  3  4  S          6                                        Y                10            i1              12         13    Coort terme
Mat Incrnt    Prol-ct L'ndg nE                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prét  -pplrémntattea  d  projet
b iztie9 Cofete                       47,300          52,460       93,090        (98,050)       (34,600)      (60,200)       -                                                                                                 C.f& eiltaot
e.lttzg CloC. o                       11,000          16,500       27,780        (11,000)       (16,500)      (27,780)                                                                                                         Cirofl. etatant
CaizcîeR VacIll                          -             6,340       14,780           -            (6,340)      (14,780)                                                                                                         Vactila zalatotDe
fatating Sigar....                      9,360         29,160       60,480         (1.800)       (28,080)      (69,120)                                                                                                         C       anez   zure aitant
I   rnved Riez                        56,700          89,800      153,630         19,010         11,880       (          (90,< (66,200)                                                (99,310)      (165,510)                 R    m   lo.ru
iz  late                                -            32,060        50,210        85,410        <21,840)      (49,150)  (90,720)                                                                                               Mal. nou.ea
Ne  Otroundnut                           -               -          31,780        49,680         84,270       (27,60)  (48,480)         (90,000)                                                                              Arachide nouvella
Total (1)                            124 360         226,320      431 750          325          (1210)       (248 680) (L39,39g)         (90,000)        _                    )        (99,310)    (165.510)                   Total (t)
resa (IS par  oc-h                                                                                                                                                                                                            Co-ia@io    (I S par m.oe  ur
00cr 12  aietha)                                                                                                                                                                                                               12  ola)
Eioiticg Cofflz                        5,690          15,200       28,550         23,190         11,370         7,220                                                                                                          Caft ofatzat
E.izrlog Clooz                          1,300          3,250         6,530         6,530          5,230         3,280        -Cirofla omietat
EoIcticg Vaitlla                         -               760         2,520         2,520          2,520          1,760                                                                                                         Vanille enletantc
EPatiog  u9Ser.z.e                      1,130          4,630        11,890        13,010         12,420         8,280                                                                                                          CanaA aorte «aiatanc
1provod Rli-                           6,800          17,550        35,910        38,070         39,420        39,420      39,420         39,420         39,420           39,420        31,540         19,710                  Riz   â1tcr.
Ne. MHIno                                -             3,840         9,890        26,110         21,120        17,280      10,800            -             -                       -                      -                    HMai  nouv-eu
Nev Grro.ndeot.                                          -           3,840         9,790         19,970        20,880      17,280         10,800           -                                                                   Arachide nouvelle
Total (e)                              14.920          _t230        99 130       113,220        112 050        98 120    67,500           50_220         39 420           39,420         31.540        19,710                  Total (e)
Hedi, Tom                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MO-e tcare
Net Increzta  Projeet Leodig                                                                                                                                                                                                   Preta aupplimtcirez do projet
Reyez.ratod Coffeo                      7,150         18,890        43,320        30,730          9,240        (47,520)  (38,02(0)       (23,760)          -                                                                    CaE. rigéoiré
Nov S.gerr.ne                         20 530          51,340        82,140       (92,380)       (61,630)          -          -                                                                                                 Canne à aorte nouvelle                 oe
Anîiml Traction                      171,720         257,780       429,300           -          (85,320)      (161,460) (263,520)         (83,700)          -            (25,920)       (65,880)     (105,300)  (67,500)    Culture attelee
Total (il)                            199400         328_010       554.760       (61,650)      (137.710)      (208,980) (W1I540)        (lû7_4601             -          (25,920)       (65.880)      (105,3005   (67.500)      Total  (tE)
ree                                                        -                                                                                                              Cîzalona
Oogenercted Coflez                        620          2,240         5,900         9,240         12,000         12,000      9,600          6,000           -                                                                    Caf' rsgéér
New Sogaracon                           1,740          6,960        17,400        15,660         10,440           -                  -              -                                                                          Cannk aà  cre DOUV'11
Animal Traction                        14,580         36,450        72,900        72,900         72,900         77,440    69,60            59,130        22,680           22,680         22,680         18,140     11,340       Culturo attelée
Total (ù)                              16 940         45,650        95,200        97j800         95,340         89440    _7 3260          65.130          2680            2,80           22.680         18140      11,340       Total (b)
L... 1.                                                                                                                                                                 L..x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40  te-m
NOt Ineromoorol Peejeet L-cding                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prêta *opplé.enatir-e  du projet
Ner  Cotcee                            18,290         31,150        56,100        16,500          5,300        (16,740)  (33,480)         (33,500)      (26,820)         (16,800)                                               Café nouv-ao
New Vacilla                              -            40,180       108,790        51,740         52,270         10,110    (71,040)        (71,080)      (71,160)         (49,810)                                               Vacille 0000e11z
New Pepper                             10,280         18,540        33,480        16,660         14,120          4,420    (10,730)        (20,730)      (20,730)         (20,730)       (16,580)       (10,360)                 Pol-re nouveau
Heu C.eoa                               3,730          6,580        12.030          5,510         4,830            640     (5,940)        (11,880)       (9,510)          (5,960)          -                                    Cacao nouveao
Total (1)                              32.3           96,450       210_400        90,410         76,52          (1,570) (121190)         (137_190)    (Q,220)            (93.00)        (16580)        (10,360)                 Total (iit)
Feo-                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cozanizaona         
Ne. Coff.o                              1,460           3,950        8,430          9,720        10,680         10,680     10,680          10,680         8,540             5,340           -                                   Calé oouvrau
Now Vanill                               -             3,200        11,910        16,090         20,280         22,800    22,800           22,800        22,800           15,960            -                                   VaDIllo nouvelle
Ne. Pepper                                820          2,300         4,980          6,320         7,440          8,280      8,280           8,280         8,280            8,280          6,620          4,140                  PoIvre nouveau
Mev Cocoe                                 300             830        1,790          2,220         2,610          2,850      2.850           2,850         2,280             1,430           -             -                     Cacao nouveau                  R
Total (e)                               7580          10.280        27 110        34 350         41 010         44,610    44,610           44,610        41900            3 0             6,620          4.140                  Total (e)
1e 5 mrs îgo
Ma-ch 5, 1980



rIRbT AGRICULTUML CRtDIT PROJELr                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREMIER PROJtT DE CUODIS 010011
(FIG  litllos                                                                                                                                                                                                                           152Utls
1978           1979          1980           7981           7982           1983           1984.           1995           19)88          1993           1988           1989
proolsi ors or to 12/3178  ~         4,97           4,973          4.973          4,973          4.973          4.973          4,973          4.973           4.973          4.973          4.973          4,973               rotiaa-3l/12/76
dîstribotol sol aooon.îarod  1/        370            594            686            952          145~j7        2.141          3,0             3.862       4..58332        ..,!Žfl          6.91)6        8..j(9              resEts. lier  dlq.sse,.
Totl.  A                        5,343          5,567          5,659          5,925         6.430          7,114          7,976           8,835          9,8o6         10,823          11.881         12,982                          Totsi A
AloaIno  pr....da of IDA6 ordit
fo  Cpirol io-ress...                                                           258            534          1,076-                                         ---
- 5sf.  CoopsottosLoxo                         -1 .854                                     -                                                                                                                                            rsConPsrrio  Sots...
- tovorssot raponsî,i  (or ptîStPai                                                                                                                                                                                                  -   ra.  Cea   arlue   de.
aarfoato    os42Ios-                                                                 --                                                            0             100            100            1013           100               Aa,tas    aia    riê   A
o.rftotoao  70*  -rdît (beyosd           -                                                                                                                                                                                          .    t     nr Pli   11(A    asd
1990)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      90
A  lots7 -T -.                                            3,512            5314         1,076            -              -               100                                                                            1190)10  o      Tlllâ          
CnsaîoTots1 R                                           3,5112        4,046          5122           5,7212         5,122           5,222          5,322          5,422          5.522          5,422                                 Tota  C- 1i      à B
Tofl1 tqoltY         C- A   a                      5,343          5,567          917            9,971        1152           12236          1.3,098         74,057         15.128          16,245         17,403         18,604,            RESSSCESO  PROPRES TOTALES C -A+E                If
Total Dflebt  D                                  44,170         30,803         58,799         67,671         76,201         84,328         87,159          92,673         95,866        102,223        109,700        117,914             Dettea sots        /h
Sotea Cooperatton  (Co.lottvo)-                     -           1.854          1,854          1,834          1,854          1,854           i 854          1,854          1,854          1,854           1,854               Coogra.tioo  notes. (rool*)
Priortpol Asetstn             r".Alordil                                                                                                                    nio           200            300            400            500               A 1t..ia oapitsl 8AJ8 (-.aaaé)
Total E                           -              -            1,854          1,854          1,854          1,854          1,854           t,954          2,054          2,154          2,254          2,354                               Total E
Tofo1 l nbt  8-t                                  44,170         50,803         56,945         65,077         74,347         82,274         85.305          90.719         93,812        100,064        707,446        115,560              LotIon .totles E-E
Fao5, a) Eoont1 A.sono.. yona t_ datsoi   ft-asidre
loolin  CapItal    _ C             12.15,         III            16.17,         15.75,         15.55,         74,95          13.45,          15.37.         16.15,         16.75,         16fl%          16.75,                       Reeorse   rsre  -   C
Iool dth   tdC ndI , 5/-Il      ee1 3i7l7,-.7,                                                                             1.7,          1.t,            15             20 51           27.35,         71.85,         22.2%               dtvtd..ase.       te5/C   devions
t) thotovarnmnt dos nofeoosp  the                                                                                                                                                                                                St Ile G-:ers      s  sstnIlptfa  pan Ilac
n                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      E~~~~~~~ 
Il  Ae.stsg. that tiho tnrnen           ...ee  tC rPtoi-  is-re..                                                                                       I/  fies  ihypohi..e nf le Onoreus pp_ov   1eo    ealsdn  .tapfl.
2/  VtrTablpnso 7          _qi  ,tP.
lrrntble d.lot    o  folly ptonîsto...d
S..îo  Table 6 Page 2.                                                                                                                                4/1  Voir Tebleao ,6, rja2 
5/90, o) total dtnlo-ds  -ntll 1979, riateg so 90,55, in 1980, 91.45, ir 1981 and 92.75, ln 1982 osoord.                                              5/  905, led   flelerooxj,o                   1979, egatn       05.a   98   i6   s1h5   27 
es 982 et aptis



FIRST AGRICULTURAL CR8D0T rncT                                                                                                                      PiREMIER PROJET ne  CDUI7T SRICOiI
.c..n.s *nd lnoo   Co...rpd Ic  or-kin  AUe ...lutOn de. CS,arc.. rt Pràd.c. Ranrcd   d 1Arct  Circclpnn
1979           1980           1981            1982           1983            1984          1985           1986           1987            1988            1989
Wcrking Aseet   J                    57,034         63,568          75,838         86,408          95,688         99.545        t06.322         110,665        116,276        124,748          134,264         Actit Cir-as  e  31/12  1/
iwcînicé cf Provision                                                                                                                                                                                         Pruvininc  pour cetanre  dautaeue
for doubeful    t                        t              t              t               t               t              t               t 1            7.                            t                           nood. dcit..
OPcAT?I  EXPENS   J/             1,079   1.89   1,667  2.63    1,852  2,46    1,936  2.30    2,015  2.18    1,932  4.04    2,223  2.17    2,278  2.12   2,482   2.19   2,609   2,14   2.739   2.08           C086C  D'Imrn? l41T ole  V
V.rktrx8 A-- ...                                                                                                                                                                                               c Alf Circulent
ADiS4INSTRATIVE tEPiNSes Z/       2,436   4.27   2,791  4.39    3,029  3.99    3,240  3.74    3,414  3.58    3,512  3.54    3,691  3.47    3,777  3.40   3,855   3.33   3,995   3.20   4,085   3               Cr s8AEIiIUsTTves  V
Working Assec. t.                                                                                                                                                                                              Atif Circulant
TGT4L T cuME  2/                  4,214   7.39   4,744  7.40    5.712   7.43   6,754  7.50    7,567  7.80    7,567  7.90    8,599  8.10    9,o90  8.10   9.513   8.12   9,911   7.98  10,265   7.63            Tt3AL 1*2s resITTs  2
Vorking A-set            t                                                                                                                                                                                     Actif Cicsist
PMOF7T BEmRE TAX  2/               699   1.23      286  0.41      831   1.05   1,578  1.73    2,138  2.09    2,692  2.60    2,685  2.54    3,035  2.60   3,176   2.6(1   3,3(05   2.64   3.441   2.57           lErICE vCAVANT limpu   }/                      0%
WUrking Ac.aci           1                                                                                                                                                                                     Actif Circulant 
S. sec Table 6, P.8g  1                                                                                                                                        1/        Voc T.blau 6, P.g. 1.
2/ Son Table 7.                                                                                                                                                2/        gots Tbl.- u7.
H-rch 5, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                            i. 5 _r 1980



FIRST OC5iCUITURAL CRfiDIT 7)OEECT/tflsîER l'63ET I'E CRED0T ACCICOLE
ECcON(inIC nlA1.YSIS
S-ooa1ro of lucreenirl PCo.s.t  .ounofdi Ouate  aL         - Bofitn   - eates  ot ReCul:-                                   6ésumo d-, Codco Ecunomiicoco et d-s Avsotugeo Supplfencsîrau  du Projet - Ta.s de RentObIbit  Interns
CI Mnlîlln.-d                                          e  A8/   ..                                                                    (millons de ttC)
y r1 / Anld
1         2         3         4          5         6         7         8          9       10-20                                                               *-t_ptton./ *t_dstd
CoCt.              Z4        63         130       124      120        114       114        114       114        114         Cu,Tîs         C,fé existant                                   ovr100 -
x.lt.InO  co-ife                                     -          -         143       477   1,051        1,32b   1,328       1,I28     1.328    1,308         Ov,sotu.
L                  12        35          77        98      109        108      14         112       10!        102         C
Yey0tsrtted cof fte                                                                                                                                                          Cale r6-éere                                       60
b                  -         -                     -       110        276       552        552       552        552         A
C                  59        99         175        59       66          74       73         70        D8         66         C
Oets 00100.                                                                                                                                                                  Café nouscas                                       60
B                  -         -           -         33      116        270       397        469       497       497          A
C                  10        39          98       154      187         185      185        185       185        105         C
Clo-et                                                                                                                                                                       Crc-fle                                                100
B                  -         -          100       350      753      1,005    1,005       1.005     1,005     1.005          A
c                  -          2           8        12       14          13       13         13         13        13         C
OsIalînS  vacilla                                                                                                                                                            Vanhîll eeIutsatan                               o      M100
B                  -         -           -         54      234        360       360        360       360        360         A
C                  -         77         207       109      141        142       138        138       131        126         C
Net oael                                                                                                                                                                     V an11  nou,ve I le                                66
R                            -           -         -        -          270   1,035       1,485     1,800     1,800          A
C                  26        48          90        44       46          48       49         48        46         44         C
NeY Peppe-                                                                                                                                                                    .o.i.e oucesu                                      13
b                  -         -           -         -        12          36       81        105        120       120         A
C                  16        26          46        13       15          16       17         17         16        16         C
aNe  0Ç00                                                                                                                                                                      uCacflu no,oku                                   28
B                  -         -           -         -         6          20       4b         76        99        113         A
C                  X        389         831       613      b90         700      693        6837       675       666         C
Total Outurt CroCs                                                                                                                                                            Total cultures d'ceuprtotîun                       8S                                                               ON
b                  _         -          243       914   2.282       3,565   4,806        5.380        5,7tl  5,775          A
C                   3        14          37        47       50         46        57         65         65        55         C
OxIetînO  Sugar cane                                                                                                                                                          Cafl,,oS, _r.  eitfltSStl                          20
b                  -         -            3        13       35          55       71        oi1       loi        Iûl         A
C                  27        95         218       133      127         127      127        127        127       127         C
Nea Sug-r                                                                                                                                                                                      --n0  la,.,,idsncletouvelle       30
b                  -         20          81       202      2022        202      202        207        222       252         A
C                  30       110         255       160      177         173      179        192        192       192         C
Total Indusir.laI CroC -stal CulLur1s IndustrIelîle                                                                                                                                                                              27
B                  -         2  215                        237         257      27"        308        323       353         A
C                 108       234         494       363      366         353      315        301        3i5       J05         C
Iaprooed  tIcs                                                                                                                                                                618 ssoéIorC                                      16
e                  -         33         106       270      389         497      497        497        497       497         A
C                  56       144         249       304      308         352      373        431        299       299         C
Nea NIaat                                                                                                                                                                               ..l .uu eau                              47
b                  -         -          100       275      5R7        6S6       749        749        749       249         A
C                  5         864        201       152      307         311      310        301        301       30l         C
Net iirout8- nut 4rsullXdr lvs-va d                                                                                                                                                            ll                                26
-         -          -          75      zû6        440      515         562       562       562          A
C                 221       462         944       819      901       1Q016   1,003       1.033        915       905         C
-oral Foud cro   b35  208     620   1,12        1,623    1,1761      1,80      1.808     1081)8         A
c ]2L qwl z ol~~~~~~~~1   o                     1.hli!   1_n(L   1 81           1_92X  1-1Z2    1 763              c
tot,l for Coel                                       -                           ……                                ……                            -                            I.tA I OOo,elsPeula                                60
8                  -         55         535     1 ,49   3 701       5,445    6,84ü       7,496     7.892      7,936         A_
o/ ail, a syuteaîic ote y-ar deley It -oivhtni benetfts                                                                               ni onec un déleI ayot0tlquC d'un at pouer l.C -CtC.g
AprIl 3, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 f



MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BTM - ORGANIZATION CHART
br,ientaton Caun-il for the Bankirg
i      and Financiat Sector
Management Commiltee|
1  Internai Audit                     Genera Managerl
|Adm,nisrat ve General                                                                                        Operation General
|   rectorate                                                                                               Di,ecto,.te
General
Personnel             Control             Accounting    l        Comp"ter                                    Credit
Department          )Departreent                r    t           Oepar-;men                                 Directoratete
Cred,t               Cred it               Cdit                                        x                   Stud es 
l  D  sion                               D l    Oluision l l  Dieipial l    Treasu e  RFel tions           Plann,ng
1              ~          ~          ~~2  3             eatetDeparmetDepartment
r CGroup of           C |  Group of        Grop                                        Gforp of Gr             rur71
Antsoiranarra         Toamasina            Mahalunga           Antananvo              Fianarantsoa                  r
Branches             Branches             Branches              Brancher              Branches              Branches
Field         [7 F,eld                     Field                 Field                  ield                 F,eldc
Offices               Offices              Offices               Offices               Offices               Offices
1B-
World Bank-21ff05



- 63 -
MADAGASCAR
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
HEAD OFFICE ORGANIGRAM
cHART 2
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
DIRECTOR GENERAL                            =        RY
CREDIT DIRECTORATE                 DEPUTY DRCO   EEA
DEPUTY DIRECTOR GENERAL          |  TANANARIVE MAJUNGA GROUP                      DIRECTOR GENERAL
1 DIRECTOR                                  1
ADMINISTRATIVE AND                    3 CONTROLLERS                          RESEARCH AND
PERSONNEL DEPARTMENT                    2 CLERKS                            PLANNING DEPARTMENT
1 HEADOF DEPARTMENT                                                           2 SENIOROFFICERS
3 DEPUTIES                                                                    2 CONTROLLERS
2 CONTROLLERS                         CR ED IT OIR ECTORATE                   1 CLERK
S CLERKS                           FIANARANTSOA DIEGO GROUP
1 DIRECTOR
i DEPUTY                            CASH MANAGEMENT
ACCOUNTING DEPARTMENT                   3 CONTROLLERS                           DEPARTMENT
2 CLERKS
1 CHIEF ACCOUNTANT                                                            1 CONTROLLER
1 DEPUTY                                  _                                  3 _E-
2 SECRETARIES                         CREOITDIRECTORATE
TAMATAVE TULEAR GROUP             DISPUTED CLAIMS AND COMMERCIAL
INFORMATION DEPARTMENT
i    DIRECTOR                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
GENERAL ACCOUNTING                     1 DEPUTY                              1 DIVISION CHIEF
1 CONTROLLER                          1 DEPLJTY
10 ACCOUNTANTS AND                       2 CLERKS                             2 CONTROLLERS
CLERKS                                                                     7 CLERKS
EARNINGS AND CHARGES
5 ACCOUNTANTSAND
CLERKS
CREDIT PORTFOLIO
5 ACCOUNTANTS AND
CLERKS
INCOMING VOUCHERS
3 ACCOUNTANTS AND
CLERKS
[ INDING FORWARDING ANO
FILING DOCUMENTS FROM
COMPUTER DEPARTMENT
16 CLERKS
COMPUTER OEPARTMENT
1 lHEAD DEPARTMENT
1 HEAD STUDIES SECTOR
1 ANALYST?PROGRAMMER
5 PROGRAMMERS
l OPERATION LEADER
1 DEPUTY
12 OPERATORS
1 CHIEF DATA ENTRIES SECTOR
2 TEAM LEADERS
20 DATA ENTRIES OPERATORS
1 SECRETARY
STATIONERY ARCHIVES
13 CLERKS
INTERNAL AUDIT DEPARTMENT
1INSPECTOR CHIEF
1 DEPUTY
4 INSPECTORS
1SECRETARY
I  ___________________________________                                                    Wo,Id  8ank   -  20954



- 64 -
LIST OF MATERIALS AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
Annex  1     BTM Financial Situation
Table 1     Branches and Offices
Table 2     Typical Organigram of a Provincial Capital Agency
Table 3     Branches and Group Personnel
Table 4     Pattern of Ordinary Branch Organîgram
Table 5     Organigram of BT4's Headquarters
Table 6     Accounting Statements Issued by the Computer Department
Table 7     Staffing According to Function and Assignment
Table 8     Resources as at July 31, 1979
Table 9     Credits Movements Fiscal Years 1977 and 1978
Table 10    Utilization of Management Funds for Specific Operations
Table Il    Structure of Interest Rates on Loans
Table 12    Comparative Balance Sheets
Table 13    Trading Account and Profit and Loss Accounts
Annex  2     Crop Production, Research and Extension Services
Annex  3      Farm Models
Table 1     Structure of Farm Models
Table 2     Family and Hired Labor Requirement for the Farm Models
Table 3     Cost of Production and Yields  -
Irrigated Rice 1 ha (traditional Cultivation)
Table 4     Cost of Production.  Miscellaneous 1 ha
Table 5     Costs of Tools for a Typical Farm Model
Table 6A    Farm Budget - Cash Flow.  Regeneration of Old Coffee
Table 6B    Establishment Costs and Yields. Regeneration of Old
Coffee Plantation 1 ha (1,100 plants)
Table 7A    Establishment Cost and Yields
New Coffee Plantation
1 ha (1,200 plants)
Table 7B    Farm Budget - Cash Flow
New Coffee Plantation
Table 8A    Maintenance Costs, Yields
Existing Cloves 1 ha
Table 8B    Farm Budget - Cash Flov
Existing Clove Plantation
Table 9A    Maintenance Costs and Yields
Existing Vanilla 1 ha (1,800 plants)
Table 9B    Establishment Costs and Yields
New Vanilla Plantation
1 ha (2,500 plants)
Table 9C    Farn Budget - Cash Flow
New Vanilla Plantation
Table lOA   Farm'Budîet - Cash F'low
New Pepper Plantation
Table lOB   Establishment Costs and Yields
New Pepper Plantation 1 ha (5,000 plants)



- 65 -
Table 1lA   Cost of Production and Yields
:Existing Cocoa Plantation 1 ha (1,500 plants)
Table 11B   Establishment Costs and Yields
New Cocoa Plantation 1 ha (1,500 plants)
Table llC   Farm Budget - Cash Flow
'w Cocoa Plantation
Table 12A   Maintenance Costs, Yields
.Existing Sugar Cane 1 ha
Table 12B   Establishment and Maintenance Costs, Yields
New Sugar Cane 1 ha
Table 12C   Farm Budget - Cash Flow
Sugar Cane Plantation
Table 13    Cost of Production and Yields
Irrigated Rice 1 ha (improved cultivation)
Table 14    Costs of Production and Yields
New Groundnuts Plantation 1 ha
Table 15    Cost of Prodûction - Animal Traction for
a Typical Farm of the "Foodcrops" Model
Table 16    Farm Budget - Cash Flow
Foodcrops and Animal Traction
Table 17    Cost of Production and Yields
New Maize Plantation 1 ha
Table 18    Farm Budget - Cash Flow
Cotton
Annex  4      Computer Component
Annex  5      Export Market Prospects for Specialized Crops:
Cloves, Vanilla and Pepper
Table 1     Production and Exports 1978
Annex  6     Project Cost Tables
Table 1     Sm,1llholder, Loans Component
Table 2     Computer and Vehicles Component
Table 3     Project Financing
Annex 7      Economic Analy-si
Table 1     Paddy and Rice - Opportunity prices and customer subsidy
Table 2     Coffee and Cloyes , Price structure
Table 3     Economic prices for major crops financial under the Project
Table 4     Cotton - Price Structure - Import Substitution and Export Parity Prices






IBRD 14922
42'                                  414'ùE 45                                                                                                                  MARCH    1980
2-                               M          GASMADAGASCAR                                                                                                                 2
FIRST AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRQJECT                                                                                               Antseranrna
PREMIER PROJET 0E CRflD/T A GRICOlE                                                                                          +
BTM'S OFFICES
R,f'kESENVr4TI0N DE Z/A sTM
G  0(0ps                         Paved ad
G  Govpos                     vfeS gdranjees 
A       anc hs            ______  A ea:he eaads
Flield  OFIi, 
B     Succoaxt            _          ___ _pe8rmoneeî rc,ds O e............. .,hmrn
@  S,bn-Brorrcher             Chbe-n de fer,
MAJOR CROFS                             Airports
CUL TURIP4 SE+                    AéeaParts
E           V o  l 't a n i S a          R 4 e r ci,                                             /   _                                   b a v
vj i//lew                        Fleevos ef,isiéres                                    ,
rT      .    oopepper,                  asniyeis  (cm  P  yeA')                                              Besn I rD
7 J  7 L    P&iere                     tscshyàmts (aen Po, an)                 AnaI0                   -
Clrves                        Fa,ay bounrddes detsoh                                                               l 3
CôiAbpNa v-aertsdR                   Lît ie   de   Far ,  an
-f  Cçdloeac«Aj>    adioeo        e                                                                   Ei 
CaUsie                                          A2Gh s? Be e (
COtEn e abd    e are dch;binane
llrahe IhceasSi]
Ru e, baknoab sen cepdc dansXoatrrovee3X1 teW
Molves a          50 ah ns b   aiV q  a
ai nt bovi 8/                                   T sssonddBo.
A,k.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W5 S,Se,lcec,e  e
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~te55aifC  5(.?'ee5o
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n es eca   i aca
Ch ai? 17 O/                                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~o     Vhies  h dendi ans sS ,dS
icns Oc (e /ac $(te       20'
rants~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cpirtsc,O, cd,c,n
Vaspa'edrass      -,,~ ~~~~d - 'h
AFRICA         MITGACA



