CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 236 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Intensive Dairy Production Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 22, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 236 TU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Intensive. Dairy Production Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 22, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 22, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower is undertaking the first phase of its program of
development of intensive dairy production and has requested assistance from the
Association for the purpose;
WHEREAS the Agricultural Bank of the Turkish Republic (hereinafter called
ABT), an enterprise of the Borrower, was established to finance agricultural
development in the territories of the Borrower;
WHEREAS the Borrower is willing to make funds available to ABT for the
carrying out of Part A of the Project, described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement,
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing for the above purposes to make a
development credit to the Borrower, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
ABT;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)  The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01 of the General
Conditions:


﻿4                                          9
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth
in Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(b) Section 6.06 of the General Conditions is modified by inserting ",
the Project Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit
Agreement".
(c)   Section 8.02 of the General Conditions is modified by inserting the
words "or the Project Agreement" after the words "the Development
Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and ABT, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all agreements supplemental
to, and all schedules to, such agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ABT pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) of this
Agreement, as such agreement shall be amended from time to time
with the approval of the Association, and such term includes all
agreements supplemental to, and all schedules to, such agreement;
(c)   "Directorate"  means   the  General  Directorate  for  Livestock
Development Projects of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
(d)   "IDPD" means the Intensive Dairy Production Division of the
Directorate;
(e)   "Project Areas" mean (i) the Istanbul region, comprising Istanbul,
Thrace, Koqaeli, Sakarya and Bursa; (ii) the Izmir region, comprising
Izmir, Aydin and Manissa; (iii) the Adana region, comprising Adana,
Hatay and Mersin; and (iv) the Ankara region, comprising the area
within a radius of 150 km from the center of the city of Ankara,
and Konya Province adjacent to such area and south to a line drawn
from west to east through a point 50 km south of the town of Konya;


﻿5
(f)   "Dairy Loan" means a loan made by ABT in accordance with the
procedures and the lending and operating policies provided for in the
Schedule to the Project Agreement and utilizing funds provided to
ABT under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(g)   "dairy-farm development plan" means a specific plan for investment
in forage production under irrigation, farm buildings, livestock, farm
machinery and equipment, tractors and other related items, or any
combination thereof, requiring foreign exchange, of an investor
qualifying for a Dairy Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million five hundred thousand
dollars ($4,50,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to
the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower, and in the case and to the extent specified
in Section 7.02 (b) of this Agreement, the ABT, shall be entitled to withdraw
from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services
required for the Project and to be financed under this Development Credit
Agreement:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)


﻿6
for imported goods and services, including training and related
travel outside Turkey, as described in the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement; and
(ii)       the equivalent of 40% of the invoiced price paid for the purchase
of such of the tractors described under Category III of such
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit as shall have been
produced in the territories of the Borrower and procured as set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, it being agreed that such
percentage represents the foreign exchange component of the
cost of such tractors.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on
account of payments in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower, except pursuant to
sub-paragraph (ii) of Section 2.03 above, or for any taxes imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
supply of goods or services.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October I in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 1981 and ending October 1, 2020,
each installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 1990 to
be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement
to expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall (i) carry out Parts B and C of the
Project and cause ABT to carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, economic and
agricultural practices, and (ii) provide, and cause ABT to be provided with, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Any funds provided to ABT pursuant to the foregoing in the form of loans or
credits shall be provided on terms not less favorable than the terms applicable
to the relending by the Borrower to ABT of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to Section 4.02 (a) below.
(b)   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ
(i) a competent and experienced full-time manager for IDPD, (ii) not less than
two internationally-recruited technical specialists to assist the manager of IDPD,
and (iii) experienced and qualified consultants for Part C of the Project, such
technical specialists and consultants to be acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association and engaged under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall (i) make available to ABT the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from time to time under Categories I
and II of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02
of this Development Credit Agreement on terms and conditions set forth in a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Borrower,
the Association and ABT; (ii) exercise every right and recourse available to it to
cause ABT to carry out and punctually to perform all the covenants, agreements
and obligations of ABT set forth in the Project Agreement and in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; (iii) take or cause to be taken all action as may be necessary
or appropriate to enable ABT to perform such covenants, agreements and
obligations; and (iv) not take any action, or permit any of its political subdivisions
or agencies to take any action, that would hinder, interfere with or prevent the


﻿8
performance by ABT of such covenants, agreements and obligations or the
efficiency and effectiveness of any personnel assigned to the carrying out of the
Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association; and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning,
or of amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations, administration
and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of the ministries, departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or
any part thereof, and shall enable the Association's representatives to examine the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents.
(b)   Without limitation upon its obligations contained in paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall (i) cause the manager of IDPD to keep performance
records of all livestock acquired for the Project and of such livestock's offspring
retained in the farms included in Part A of the Project; (ii) cause the manager
of IDPD to keep-records of expenditures incurred in the carrying out of Part B
of the Project; (iii) cause the Directorate to keep records of expenditures incurred
in the carrying out of Part C of the Project; (iv) cause the records referred to
in the preceding sub-paragraphs (ii) and (iii) of this paragraph (b) to be audited
annually, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, by auditors acceptable to
the Association; and (v) promptly after the preparation of the audit referred to
in the preceding sub-paragraph (iv) of this paragraph (b), but not later than three
months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year, transmit to the Association
a certified copy of such records and a signed copy of the auditor's report, all
in the English language.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the Project, the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and the operation, administration and financial condition, in respect


﻿*                                                9
of the Project, of the ministries, departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof, and any other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof
and the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and economic conditions in the
territories of the Borrower and the international balance of payments position of
the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully with each other
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time at the request of either
party exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement or
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the operation, administration and financial
condition, in respect of the Project, of the ministries, departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement or
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.06. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes that shall be
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall ensure (i) that the livestock to be procured
under Part A of the Project shall continue to be free from any taxes imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection
with the importation thereof and (ii) that the effective rate of such taxes imposed
on or in connection with the importation of farm machinery and equipment
(excluding tractors) under the Project shall not exceed 20% ad valorem.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately, together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such
declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable
immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ABT shall have failed to perform any obligation of ABT under the
Project Agreement, and such event shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower and
ABT by the Association;
(b)   Before the termination of the Project Agreement any legal provision
governing or applicable to the organization or operations of ABT shall
have been modified in such a manner as to threaten the ability of
ABT to carry out its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the efficiency of its operations;
(c)   ABT shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ABT or by others
whereby any of the property of ABT shall or may be distributed among
its creditors;
(d)   Before the termination of the Project Agreement the Borrower shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ABT
or for the suspension of ABT's operations.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely: an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that ABT will be able to carry out
Part A of the Project or its operations or to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.


﻿*                                11
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of ABT
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative
and governmental action;
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered and
the execution and delivery thereof on behalf of the Borrower and ABT
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative
and governmental action;
(c)   the Borrower has made the initial appointments to fill the positions
described in Section 4.01 (b) (i) and (ii) of this Development Credit
Agreement; and
(d)   the Borrower has taken the necessary measures to ensure the limitation
on taxes specified in Section 4.07 (ii) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ABT and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of ABT in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and ABT and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower
and of ABT in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of May 24, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 and 4.03
(b) of this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate on the date on which


﻿12
this Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after
the date of this Development Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date, for withdrawals from the Credit Account,
shall be June 30, 1975, or such later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 7.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section,
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
(b)   The Borrower irrevocably designates the ABT as its representative for
the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken in respect
of Part A of the Project under Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu
ve Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel Sekreterligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Maliye
Hazine
Ankara
or the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿*                                            13
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s / Ahmet Tufan GiAl
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s   J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent
Imported Friesian and Brown
Swiss heifers (as described in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement                   2,400,000
II.        Imported machinery and equipment
(excluding tractors) for the pro-
duction of hay and silage, including
mowers, side-delivery rakes, pick-up
balers and forage harvesters, and
spare parts therefor; forage crop
seed
(a)   Machinery                   500,000
(b)   Seeds                       200,000
700,000
III.       Imported or locally-produced agri-
cultural tractors, 35-46 hp                      400,000
IV.        Imported 4-wheel drive, 6- to
8-passenger vehicles (carryall
type) and imported sedan-type
station wagons                                    80,000
V.         ,Services of technical specialists
for Part B of the Project                        200,000
VI.        Technical studies for Part C of
the Project                                      200,000
VII.       Training and travel under Part C
of the Project                                    20,000
VIII.      Unallocated                                      500,000
TOTAL              4,500,000


﻿0                          15
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to VII shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and
no longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category VIII.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to VII shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such
increase to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated
by the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from
Category VIII, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the
other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project represents the first phase in the development of the Borrower's
intensive dairy production and consists of:
Part A:     The provision of Dairy Loans to farmers for the financing of dairy-farm
development plans for 250 to 300 dairy farms within the Project Areas.
Part B:     The provision, through the Directorate and with the assistance of the
technical specialists assigned to IDPD, of technical services to farmers
benefitting from Part A of the Project, including, but without being
limited to, assistance to farmers and cooperation with ABT in:
(1)   the preparation of dairy-farm  development plans;
(2)   the procurement of goods and services required to carry out
such plans; and
(3)   the supervision and execution of such plans.
Part C:     Such technical studies, training and related travel as shall have been
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association in respect of the
future development of the Borrower's livestock industry.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement Procedures
A.    Livestock
1.    All purchases by farmers of livestock required by them         to carry out
dairy-farm development plans and to be financed by Dairy Loans shall be subject
to the approval of the manager of IDPD, taking into account price quotations
received after invitations therefor from at least three different countries and the
recommendations of the technical specialist supervising the particular plan as regards
quality and source, and of the Director General of Veterinary Affairs of the Ministry
of Agriculture of the Borrower, as regards animal health standards. Such livestock
shall be restricted to the following:
(a)   (i) imported Friesian heifers from dams certified to have a production
record of not less than 4,000 kg. of milk per 300-day lactation period
and (ii) imported Brown Swiss heifers from dams certified to have
a production record of not less than 3,700 kg. of milk per 300-day
lactation period, all in-calf to sires of respectively the same breed,
whose progeny have a similar production record, all registered in a
national herd book, and certified free of tuberculosis, brucellosis,
leptospirosis, trichomoniasis, vibrio foetus, and all vaccinated against
foot and mouth disease;
(b)   imported, pure-bred, Friesian and Brown Swiss bulls (i) from dams
yielding, in the case of Friesian dams, not less than 5,000 kg. of milk
per 300-day lactation period, and in the case of Brown Swiss dams,
not less than 4,600 kg. of milk per 300-day lactation period and (ii)
by sires whose progeny have a rating of above average in the milk
production testing program of the exporting country, but of not less
than that specified for the dams in (b) (i) above, all certified free
of tuberculosis, brucellosis, leptospirosis, trichomoniasis, vibrio foetus,
and all vaccinated against foot and mouth disease; and
(c)   all livestock mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) will meet the
zootechnical and health specifications which will be prepared by the
General Directorate of Veterinary Affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture
of the Borrower in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
2.    Contracts between suppliers and farmers for the purchase of livestock shall
contain provisions regarding the reception and delivery of livestock satisfactory


﻿18
to the manager of IDPD and shall provide that title to such livestock shall pass
to the farmer only upon delivery at his farm.
3.    The Borrower shall take all necessary action to expedite livestock purchases
and veterinary clearances and to assure prompt and adequate deliveries of such
livestock to purchasers thereof.
B.    Farm  Equipment and Machinery
1.   Procurement of farm    equipment and machinery (excluding vehicles and
tractors) shall be organized into bulk orders by the Directorate, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of individual orders collected by the
regional managers of IDPD from farmers benefitting from Dairy Loans. The
organization of such orders and the proposed form of invitations to bid shall be
submitted to the Association for comments prior to the issuance of such invitations.
2.    The Directorate, on behalf of such farmers, shall invite bids for such bulk
orders by advertising in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the
territories of the Borrower and by sending adequate advance notice to the embassies
in the territories of the Borrower of appropriate member countries of the Bank
and Switzerland.
3.    Invitations to bid shall specify that suppliers shall be required to provide
in each one of the Project Areas efficient servicing facilities and sufficient spare
parts.
4.    Prior to the award by the Directorate of any contract, a report and analysis
of the bids received, together with the proposal for the award, shall be submitted
to the Association for approval. Contracts shall be awarded by the Directorate
(on behalf of such farmers) to the lowest evaluated bidder.
C.    Tractors
1.   The procurement of agricultural tractors of 35-46 hp (about 100 units) to
be procured for the carrying out by farmers of dairy-farm development plans and
to be financed by Dairy Loans shall be organized by the Directorate, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of (i) individual orders collected from
such farmers by the regional managers of IDPD and (ii) international competitive
bidding in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits dated August 1969, of
the Bank.


﻿19
2.    In accordance with paragraph 1.4 of such Guidelines, all such tractors shall
be the subject of not more than two bids.
3.    Before inviting bids, the Directorate shall submit to the Association for its
approval an outline 'of the procedures proposed to be followed, together with drafts
of the invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of contract, delivery schedules,
and any other tender documents. Such invitations shall specify that suppliers shall
be required to maintain in each one of the Project Areas adequate servicing facilities
and stocks of spare parts.
4.    Where bids are submitted by manufacturers of such tractors established in
Turkey (Local Bids), the following rules shall be observed for the purpose of
comparing the bid price of any such Local Bid to the bid price of any competing
bid of a supplier of imported tractors (Foreign Bid):
(a)   The bid price of Local Bids shall be the ex-factory price of the tractors.
(b)   The bid price of Foreign Bids shall be the sum    of:
(i)   the c.i.f. price of the tractors, excluding all taxes imposed under
the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with their importation; and
(ii)  any such taxes, as generally applicable to tractors imported into
the territories of the Borrower by non-exempt importers, or 159
of the amount specified in (i) above, whichever shall be lower.
5.    Prior to the award of the contract for the supply of such tractors, the
Directorate shall submit to the Association for its approval an analysis of bids
received and a proposal for the award. If it is proposed to award the contract
to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, or if the terms or specifications are
to differ substantially from those previously approved by the Association, the
reasons therefor will be stated.
6.    Tractors will be purchased by the individual farmers on the terms and
conditions of the contract so awarded.
D.    Seed
1.    Purchases of seed shall be in such quantities, of such quality and origin and
at such prices and times as approved by the manager of IDPD, based on the


﻿20
recommendations of the technical specialists as to the requirements of farmers
benefitting from Dairy Loans.
2.    The procurement of seed shall be the responsibility of the Agricultural Supply
Organization of the Borrower and shall be carried out according to its usual
procedures.
E.    Vehicles
Vehicles shall be procured by the Directorate according to its usual
procedures.
F.    General Provisions
1.    The Borrower shall ensure that all import licenses and permits required in
connection with the foregoing are issued promptly as needed.
2.    As soon    as the first contract for the procurement of any          of the
above-mentioned goods is executed, but in any event before submitting to the
Association any withdrawal application concerning expenditures under such
contract or subsequent similar contracts, the Borrower shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association a certified copy thereof. Thereafter, copies of such
contracts shall be furnished to the Association upon its request.


