CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 236 TU
Project Agreement
(Intensive Dairy Production Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED FEBRUARY 22, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 236 TU
Project Agreement
(Intensive Dairy Production Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED FEBRUARY 22, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 22, 1971, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC (hereinafter called ABT).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a development credit
in various currencies equivalent to four million five hundred thousand dollars
($4,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project described
in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, Part A of which will be
carried out by ABT, but only on condition inter alia that ABT agree to undertake
certain obligations toward the Association as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS ABT, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions, as so defined, have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) ABT shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, economic
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
(b)   In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, ABT undertakes that,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, it shall at all times follow such lending
and operating policies and procedures as are set forth in the Schedule to this Project
Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and ABT.
(c)   ABT undertakes that it shall not finance any investments in dairy farm
development proposed by an investor eligible for a Dairy Loan, on terms more
favorable than the terms and conditions applicable to Dairy Loans.
Section 2.02. ABT shall (i) enter into the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower and duly perform all the covenants, agreements and obligations of
ABT thereunder; (ii) apply all funds received by ABT pursuant to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to the carrying out of Part A of the Project; (iii) exercise its
rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as -to protect the
interests of the Association and ABT; and (iv) except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. ABT shall (i) at all times conduct its operations in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices, under the
supervision of qualified, experienced and competent management and (ii) acquire,
maintain and renew a-" rights, powers, privileges and franchises as shall be, from
time to time, necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
described in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of any Dairy Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth in such Schedule 3.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ABT shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of any Dairy Loan to be used
exclusively in carrying out the dairy farm development plan for which such Dairy
Loan was granted.
Section 2.06. ABT undertakes to insure or cause to be insured the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of any Dairy Loan against marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.


﻿5
Section 2.07. (a) ABT shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Dairy Loans, to disclose the use thereof in Part A of the Project, to record the
progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting principles the operations,
administration and financial condition, in respect of Part A of the Project, of ABT.
(b)   Without limitation upon its obligations contained in paragraph (a) of
this Section, ABT shall establish and maintain separate accounts in respect of Part A
of the Project and of each Dairy Loan, and shall send to the Association, in the
English language, (i) quarterly statements of such accounts, authenticated by the
Secretary General of ABT and (ii) promptly upon their preparation but not later
than three months after the end of the period covered thereby, annual statements
of such accounts, authenticated by the Secretary General of ABT and certified
by auditors acceptable to the Association.
(c)   ABT shall (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheet,
statement of earnings and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
certified by auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) promptly after their
preparation but not later than five months after the close of ABT's fiscal year
transmit to the Association copies of its provisional accounts and statements
certified by the Secretary General of ABT, in the English language; and (iii)
*        promptly after such audit, transmit to the Association a certified copy of its final
accounts and financial statements, as so audited, in the English language.
Section 2.08. (a) ABT shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Dairy Loans and any relevant
records and documents, and to visit the sites of the projects financed under Part A
of the Project.
(b)   ABT shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project, the Credit,
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Dairy Loans, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Dairy Loans, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, and
the administration, operations and financial condition of ABT.
(c)   The Association and ABT shall cooperate fully to ensure that the
purposes of the Credit and the Dairy Loans will be accomplished. To that end,
the Association and ABT shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance by
ABT of its obligations under this Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of ABT, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Dairy Loans.


﻿6
(d)   ABT shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit and the Dairy Loans, the maintenance of the service thereof, or
the performance by ABT of its obligations under this Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into force and effect on
the Effective Date. If, pursuant to Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate, the Association shall promptly
notify ABT thereof and, upon the giving of such notice, this Project Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 3.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate and all of the obligations
of the parties hereunder shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen years from
the date of this Project Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex, or radiogram to the party to which it
is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified
are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿7
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ABT:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Zerbank
Ankara
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken and any
documents required or permitted to be executed under this Project Agreement
on behalf of ABT, or by ABT on behalf of the Borrower under Section 7.02 (b)
of the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Secretary
General of ABT or such other person or persons as ABT shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. ABT shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority of the person or persons who will, for or on behalf of ABT, take
any action or execute any documents required or permitted to be executed by
ABT pursuant to Section 4.02 above, and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 4.04. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.05. This Project Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Project Agreement to


﻿8
be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
By /s / Ahmet Tufan Gill
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Procedures; Operating and Lending Policies of
ABT in respect of Part A of the Project
A.    Request for and Approvals of Dairy Loans
1.   ABT shall grant Dairy Loans only to eligible borrowers in the Project
Areas and only following the approvals stipulated in paragraph 2 below.
2.    All dairy-farm development plans for which Dairy Loans are requested,
together with the amounts and sources of financing required to carry out such
plans and the requests to ABT for the Dairy Loans shall, in order to qualify for
such Loans, have the recommendation for approval given by a technical specialist
appointed pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement,
and the approval of the Manager of IDPD, endorsed thereon.
B.    Eligibility of Borrowers
In order to qualify for the granting of a Dairy Loan, each applicant shall:
(i)        have proven competence in dairy farming;
(ii)        own a milking herd of at least ten cows, provided, however,
that smaller herds may be acceptable if composed of high-quality
animals;
(iii)      have tenure of an appropriate area of irrigated land, suitable
to be progressively brought under forage crops for on-farm
consumption; and
(iv)       meet all other creditworthiness criteria as shall be reasonably
established from time to time by ABT.
C.    Terms and Conditions
1.   The total amount of any Dairy Loan shall not exceed 80% of the
estimated cost of the first three years of the dairy-farm development plan to be
financed therewith.
2.    The principal of each Dairy Loan shall: (i) be repaid in twelve years,
including four years of grace, in such yearly installments as shall be commensurate


﻿11
2.    IDPD's and ABT's staff shall regularly visit the farms where dairy-farm
development plans financed with Dairy Loans are being carried out, to ensure that
borrowers are effectively and punctually carrying out such plans and complying
with the provisions of their respective Dairy Loan agreements with ABT.


