Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10631
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1083-EGT)
MAY 8, 1992
N~o.
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ip the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CtIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Currency Unit            Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE 0.70                _            US$ 1.00
LE 1.00                             US$ 1.43
LE 1.00                             1)0 Plasters
(As of June 30, 1990)
LE 2.65                             US$ 1.00
LE 1.00                             USS 0.38
LE 1.00                             100 Plasters
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF        -     African Development Fund
GARPAD   -       General Authority for Rehabilitation Projects
and Agricultural Development
MALR       -     Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
ODA        -     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PBDAC      -     Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit
SMS        -     Subject Matter Specialists
WFP        -     Worid Food Program (UN)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)            =   1.037 acres (ac)
1 hectare (ha)            =   2.380 feddan (fed) 2.470 acres
1 kilometer (km)          =   0.620 miles (m)
1 meter                   =   3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)        =   35.310 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 metric ton (mt)         -   0.984 long ton (ton), 2,205 pounds
FRSCAL YEAR
Govemment of Arab Republic of Egypt
July 1 - June 30



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OFcAL US ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dftects.vGo al
Op.,ation Evalaktkin
May 8, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE ^'RESIDENT
SUBJECTS Project Completion Report on EGYPT - Now Land
DeveloDment Prolect (Credit 1083-EGT)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Egypt: New Land Development Project
(Credit 1083-EGT)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEFION REPORT
EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
(Credit 1083-EGT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PE No.
Preface. .............................................                                                                         i
Evaluation Summary ........................... ...................   iii
L PROJECI REVIEW FROM BANKS PERSPECIVE
Background .......................................................    1
ProjectDescription  .                .....................................1.......... 
Project Objective and Components  .....................................                                                  2
Project Design and Organization  .......................................                                                 3
Project Implementation ...............    ..............   3
Project Results .....................................................    5
Economic Analysis  .................................................                                                    7
Projet Sustainability . ................................................    7
DA Performance ...................................................    8
Borrower Performance  ..............                           ................................                          9
Project Relationship . ................................................   10
Consulting Services  .              ................................................                                   10
Project Documentation and Data   ......................................                                                11
Lessons I       need  .        ..................................................                                      11
IL PROJECI REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S ERSECvE.                                                         ................  13
I STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables:  1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ............................                                            27
2. Project Tunetable ......................                                                                28
3. Cumative Disbursements ..........................                                                       29
4. Project Costs and Fmancing ..............................                                               30
5. Project Results/Implementation  ...............................                                         31
6  Status of CDvenants  ...... ..................................                                          32
7. Use of Bank Resources ...................................                                               33
MAP BRD 15130
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Ro.IECr COMPLEhTION EXPORT
EGYPT
;XW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1083-EGT)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for New Land Development Project in Egypt,
for which Credit 1083-EGT in the amount of SDR 60.9 million (US$80.0 million equivalent) was
approved on December 16, 1980. Of this SDR 60,632,645.05 was disbursed and SDR 267,354.95 was
cancelled, effective May 30, 1991.
The principal contractors for implementing the project components belonged to the public
sector, under the management of the General Authority for Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultu-al
Development (GARPAD). Two agencies contnbuted to the project financing. The World Food
Program contributed food, "in kind" valued at US$ 3.1 M, and the African Development Bank
provided a loan amounting to US$ 10.0 on the basis of parallel financing to supplement IDA funds
allocated under the project to a bilharzia control program carried out under the Ministry of Public
Health as the executing agency. A separate comprehensive report was submitted on this component
to the this agency.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Country
Department m, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and HI), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR commenced in May, 1991, and is based, intr alia, on the findings
of a PCR mission and on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the IDA and the Borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda.



-.ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVEZLOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1083-EGT)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     Agriculture is an important sector in Egypt's economy. The 6.6 million feddan currently
cultivated is reduced annualy by an estimated 30,000 feddan due to urbanization. Current production
levels, in the case of most important commodities are inadequate to meet national demand, and the
gap is ever widening due to high annual population increase standing at 2.8% and low growth of
agricultural production.
2.     Since 1952, the Government has followed a policy of incr_asing the agricultural land base
and decreasing the food deficit. Furthermore, unemployment among young graduates prompted the
government to address reclamation of new areas for agricultural production. The New Land
Development Project was the first IDA involvement in land reclamation to address Government's
concerns on increasing the agricultural land base. Since 1952, about one million feddans have been
reclaimed, one third of which was desert land.
Objectlives
3.     The project aimed at increasing the agricultural land base in the country, thus supporting
Government's objectives to decrease the food deficit and relieve population pressure on the old lands.
The project also aimed at improving income distribution through generating employment for landless
farmers, settlement of smallholders selected from among the rural population and other
overpopulated areas of the country. The project also aimed at initiating a process of restructuring
and strengthening agricultural institutions in the reclaimed lands to become the basis of pohcy
improvements in the reclamation of the new lands.
ImplemeDtatioU
4.     Project implementation was carried out in two phases: Phase I involved reclamation of about
7,500 feddan, and Phase II about 17,000 feddans. Both phases faced implementation problems.
During Phase L the public sector company implementing the works was weak both technically and
administratively, during Phase II encroachment problems delayed reclamation works by about two
years. Other implementation problems involved selection and training of the settlers. The Training
Farm component of the project was not implemented as planned. The farmer selection criteria for
Phase H deviated from the original criteria as priority was given to unemployed college graduates



- iv-
instead of landless farmers. Project management remained weak throughout the life of the project,
contributing to delayed project implementation. The extension function was implem.nted only during
the last two years of the project.
5.      On the other hand, cooperatives were set up n each village to provide input supplies
needed by the settlers. The community development unit Larried out its work efficiently, distributing
to settlers food rations provided under the WFP component. Additionally, the Ministry of Health
implemented the bilharzia control program effectively.
Results
6.      Notwithstanding implementation difficulties, thr project succeeded in establishing a viable
f& ning system on the new land reclaimed from the desert. It aiso provided better living conditions
for the farmers through provision of adequate housing, potable water, electricity, health care services
and education opportunities for the settlers' children. Twenty villages and one Central Village were
constructed under the project with needed infrastructure of shopping centers, workshop space, milk
collection centers and storage facilities.
7.      Agricultural production on the Phase I settlement areas has steadily improved, providing
farm-rs with higher incomes than appraisal estimates. CurreDtly, the farmers are producing a variety
of crops and vegetables, in addition to meat and milk from the livestock raised on their farms.
&       The graduate farmers of Phase II were settled only in the last years of the project and are
expected to improve production levels by applying modem agricultural technologies of crop
husbandry, modern irrigation techniques, increasing the use of agricultural machinery, and through
small animal production.
9.      The bilhanzia control program made substantial progress in reducing the prevalence the
disease in the Middle and Upper Egypt. Disease control has been consolidated and focused on both
vector control and chemotherapy as preventive and curative measures.
Sustainabllltv
10.     The project will be sustainable as long as irrigation water is assured and the drainage system
is maintained. There is some risk in the supply of the irrigation water if the damaged sections of the
Nasr Canal from its intake to Pumping Station #3 remains unrepaired. This is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Irrigation and Public Works which has been advised of the repair requirements. The
settlers are responsible for the operation of the tertiary canals running adjacent to their fields. They
are expected to cooperate on the timing of irrigation of their fields and maintenance of the tertiary
canals.
11.     Much of the Project's infrastructure (potable water, electricity, school, health services, etc.)
has been transferred to the respective ministries which are responsible for infrastructure maintenance.
The various Ministries are committed to maintaining the services and structures consistent with similar
facilities under their domain, although budget provisions for adequate maintenance is a concern.



-v -
12.    The Ministry of Agriculture and Lana Reclamation has established a machinery rental
station at the project site. In addition, private tractor and implement hire are available in the area.
Also, cooperatives ha', purchased tractors and equipment supplied under the project aud are
available to the farmers. Extension activities are included in MALR's responsibilities. Staffing the
extf usion positions in the new areas has been slow but staffing levels now approximate the levels in
othi;r areas and the ministry is committed to maintaining extension support.
Lessons Learned
13.    A core management team provided appropriate guidance and supervision of the civil works
but insufficient on-site management during settlement and implementation of the agricultural
component resulted in slow development. Initially input availability and extension guidance were
inadequate and se.ttlers were left to secure needed inputs on their own initiative, and practice
husbandry without the benefit of technical guidance on crop selection and management. It is
important that project administration details be appraised and agreed during negotiation.
14.     Where public sector contractors dominate the market and will likely submit winning bids
for civil works tenders, it is important that the relationship and control of such compames be assessed
at appraisal. When public sector contractors and project implementation falls under the same
management fully enforcing contractual agreements is more difficult. Therefore, the institutional
responsibilities must be clearly defined at appraisaL
15.    Implementing a complex project, mvolving multiple ministries and including several social
issues, requires an appreciable time period. In retrospect it is apparent that the time allocated for
implementation was overly optimistic. This complexity also demands intensive supervision particularly
of the more difficult, non-engineering components.
16.     Other lessons learned relate to unrealistic and unrealized recommendations made on the
establishment of a Training Farm. Definitive credit arrangements for the settlers should have been
agreed during appraisal. Due to lack of collateral farmers could not obtain credit at the time most
needed, Le., during the initial stages of their settlement.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1083-EGT)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTWVE
Prtetd Idenfftv
Project Name: New Land Agricultural Development
Credit No.   : 1083-EGT
RVP Unit   : MNA
Country     : Egypt
Sector      : Agriculture
Subsector   : Land Reclamation
Background
1.1    Egypt's land and water resource base is quite limited. The total agricultural land is about
6.6 million feddan (or 2.75 million ha), representing only 3% of the country's total area.
Furthermore, about 30,000 feddans are lost annually to urbanization. Nonetheless, agriculture
remains an important sector in Egypt's economy. Production of most important commodities is
inadequate to meet national demand; and the production-consumption gap is widening due to the
high rate of population growth (estimated currently at 2.8%), rising incomes, and low agricultural
growth. The per capita agricultural land availability is about 0.15 feddan or 0.05 ha. These factors
have combined to give land reclamation activities a high priority.
1.2    Government's agricultural policy has aimed at reducing the food deficit, especially the
production of the essential commodities, and reducing unemployment and finding new opportunities
for the increasing numbers of college graduates. This policy has also served to focus attention on
reclamation of new areas for agricultural production. Since 1952, Egypt has added about 1.0 million
feddan to its cultivated lands, one-third of which were new lands reclaimed from the desert
PrMsect Descrlption
1.3    The New Land Development Project was the first IDA involvement in Egypt's land
reclamation activities. It was designed to support Government's objectives mentioned above. The
project was identified in April, 1978, with the help of a Bank/FAO-CP mission. With financial
assistance from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the UK, a team of consultants
assisted the Egyptian Government to complete a detailed feasibility study of the project area. The
project was appraised in January/February 1980, and negotiated on October 6, 1980. Board
presentation was delayed to December 16, 1980, awaiting Egyptian Government's clear and
comprehensive statement on the future interest rate policy and strategy in the agriculture sector.
Once all conditions were met, the project became effective on October 2, 1981.



-2 -
1.d,   ITne project is located in West Nubariya, west of the Nile Delta, about 60 km from
Alexandria and 160 km from Cairo. It is an extension of land reclamation activities that  tas been
ongoing since the early 1960s. The area was inhab.ted by a few Bedouins who were acattered in the
area. These and other settlers were to be selected and settled on 6-feddan ploL- each after
reclamation phase, according to specific standards estab!ished by project administration.
Plject ObJeetlve and Components
1.5    Tle project aimed at: (a) incteasing the agricultural production in order to reduce the
dependence of Egypt on food imports, and to save foreign exchange; (b) improving income
distribution and generating employment by settlement of smallholders selected from among the rural
population of other overpopulated areas of the country3, and (c) initiating a process of restructuring
and strengthening of agricultural institutions in the reclaimed lands which would have demonstration
effects and become the basis for policy improvements in the new lands.
1.6     The project components were:
(a)  construction of irrigation and drainage works to service an area of 24,000 feddans
(net) of desert land which would be reclaimed for intensive agriculture;
(b) settlement of 4,000 smallholders in 20 villages (4 main villages and 16 satellite
villages), with infrastructure (roads, domestic water supply, electification and
telecommunications), social services (schools, health and community development
facilities), production and administration facilities (office, workshops, veterinary
clinics, milk collecting centers, etc.), and housing for smallholders and project staff;
(c)  provision of farm machinery, maintenance equipment, vehicles and repair facilities;
(d) provision of consultant services for design and supervision of construction, research
and extension services, managerial support and other services;
(e)  provision of short-term fellowships to project staff;
(f)  provision of financial support to farmers, including credits for purchasi ag livestock
and for cropping expenses and compensation of Bedouins living in the pi )ject area;
ij) a four-year program for the field trials and training farm to continue exploring
alternative irrigation and leaching methods and requirements, alternative crop
production technologies and training of project SMS, extension staff, and leading
farmer settlers; and
(h) support for the consolidation of bilharzia control program in Middle and Upper
Egypt, and expand the program in the area of Giza Governorate and in the project
area.



-3 -
1.7    1_ project was to be implemented over six calendar years, 1981-1986, by the Ministry of
Land Reclamation (MLR), with the General Authority for Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural
Development (GARPAD) as the executing agency, with a Project Unit supervising the day-to-day
project activities. The Ministry of Irrigation was committed to extending the Nasr Canal to 67 km,
and to construct a Regional Main Drain. The Ministry of Health was to be responsible for the
planning, executing, and evaluating t.1e bilharzia project component. Credit to the project farmers
was to be provided by the Principal Bank for Development and Agriculture Credit (PBDAC), under
a subsidiary loan agreewment to be signed between GARPAD and PBDAC. Technical assistance was
to be provided for preliminary research trials and for assistance in the manageiial aspects of the
project.
Project Desigl and OrManlzation
1.8    The engineering aspects of the project were ambitious but generally well prepared and
designed to achieve the reclamation objective. The project concept was appropriate and timely but
complex. This complexity was not fully appreciated at the design stage as subsequent implementation
proved difficult as indicated below. The project was innovative in that it proposed to establish a self-
contained rural community, complete with agricultural production facilities and social and physical
amenities not found elsewhere in the rural areas of Egypt.
1.9    The World Food Program (WFP) provided food rations for the settlers during a three -year
period when the land was being reclaimed and productivity insufficient to provide for farmers' needs.
The Community Development Section assisted in the distribution of food and was instrumental in
helping newly arrived settlers overcome the hardship caused by their relocation.
Project Implementation
1.10    The project was implemented in two phases: Phase I involved reclamation of about 7200
feddans, while Phase II covered the reclamation of about 17,000 feddans. There were serious
implementation difficulties in both phases: In Phase I of the project, technical and administrative
weaknesses of the public sector company, El-Akariya delayed execution of the land reclamation
works. Due to the bureaucratic complexity of tendering and procurement in Egypt, the importation
of specialized machinery for installing field drains required two years rather than the nine months
allocated in the implementation schedule. This delayed the initial relamation phase and, in turn,
delayed subsequent phases and components. In addition, infrastructure rehabilitation needs also were
delayed in some areas. In Phase II of the project, encroachers occupied abut 15% of the area
imr: 'ing execution of land reclamations works. A complete solution to this problem was not
ach.2 .ed until the last days of the project.
1.11    An experimental research farm, the first located on non-alluvial soils was established under
altornathve donor financing in an area adjacent to the project area. This facility was expected to
provide results applicable to the project, and consultancy assistance was continued under project
financing to initiate an appropriate research program. The research farm continued to operate until
1985 when it became clear that even with improved water supplies, the experimental results would
rot be transferable due to different soil conditions; phenomena that were not appreciated at
appraisaL



-4-
1.12    The SAR emphasized settlement of married experienced farmers, composed of a family of
at least three people. But with the growing ranks of unemployed graduates the Bvrrower changed
the settler selection criteria (as contained in the Staff Appraisal Report) to include college graduates.
Because of the political implication for Egypt, IDA muted its objection to the changed criteria. At
present, two-thirds of the settlers are college graduates (some from agriculture colleges), unmarried,
who have little practical experience. Of 23,000 feddans reclaimed, 1,010 farmer settlers occupy about
6,500 feddan in Phase I, and about 2,400 graduates occupy the 16,850 feddans reclaimed in Phase II.
A 90-member settlement village consists mainly of women college graduatcs. This was very
innovative, recognizing women's role in agriculture and development and distribr' ng land to women.
However, ihese and other .;raduates require a strong training program to transform them into
productive farmers. IDA suggested a training program for these graduates a curriculum for which
was prepared and was partially implemented when the project neared closing. Furthermore, this
group of settlers are less likely to engage in strenuous physical work, hence tney would be more
inclined to use specialized farm machinery, as sufficient lat-r is not available and, even when
available, would be costly. IDA also emphasized that perhaps the farming systems would need to be
changed to emphasize application of more modem agricultural technology, such as, drip and sprinkler
irrigation and raising crops under protective covers, management of small animals and poultry.
1.13    A Training Farm distant from the project site was constructed on a piece of land leased
from the Maryut Agricultural "-aining Center. This farm consisted of 25 settler houses on 150-
feddans intended to simulate agricultural conditions of the project area. Farmers were to be trained
on this farm for six months prior to transfer to their new location in the project area. They were to
become leader farmers to transmit improved technologies to their neighbors. However, electricity
and potable water for the area could not be secured; neither could irrigation water be made available,
nor could field drains be completed.
1.14    The training farm concept was basically sound, but the proposal for implementation was
impracticaL It is improbable that farmers would willingly settle for a brief time on the training farm,
improving and cultivating the land, only to be relocated six months later to repeat the arduous task
of settlement and !and reclamation. When it became apparent that this farm would not be available
for training pdor to settlement the land and housing complex was returned to the Maryut Agricultural
Training Center (in 1986) and attention was redirected to establish a non-residential training farm
in the project area which became operational only in the last year of the project.
1.15    With respect to the subsidiary loan agreement, GARPAD and PBDAC could not agree on
the terms to on-lend project funds to farmers for procurement of farm machinery and implements.
GARPAD ultimately procured the machinery which it distributed to project cooperatives, and later
arranged with PBDAC for credit recovery, on special terms. In the face of PBDAC's objection to
procure equipment under rules set out by GARPAD, and because of urgently needed machinery IDA
conceded to the procurement procedure, insisting .:me that collection of the loan fErm the
cooperatives should not be handled by GARPAD, to which it agreed.
1.16    The roles of the institutions responsible for project components were not clearly defined
and project management remained weak throughout the life of the project, contributing to delays in
the execution of the infrastructure, and eventually a three year extension of the closing date.
Supervision missions regularly identified management weaknesses and the Bank launched two



initiatives to address these weaknesses. Soon after project implementation began, a "skill gap
analysis" was conducted, identifying weaknesses and proposing management training programs to
redress the deficiencies. Several follow-up inquires with Government yielded no positive response.
Subsequently, the IDA convinced Govemment to employ a management/planning consultant;
however, the consultancy met limited success due to language constraints and lack of appropriate
counterparts.
1.17    There was no resident project manager at the project site for four years following project
effectiveness. IDA regularly raised the issue of positioning a management team at the project site
but without success, as project management remained weak lacking authority, budgetary allocations,
transport facilities, stability and enthusiasm to fully meet project objectives. GARPAD remained
unconvinced that a resident management team was necessary, preferring to manage the project from
Cairo during the earlier phases of the project. However, prior to commencement of agricultural
activities, a resident management team was assigned to the project area. At that time management
generally (including progress monitoring) improved, and impact monitoring commenced with seasonal
assessments of production and yield. Only a skeletal extension staff existed in each village and
extension activities remained weak, without an effective extension program, adequate training or
strong lin.ks with research until the final year of the project. The borrower's claim otherwise cannot
be substantiated by facts (see para 12, Part II).
1.18    The SAR clearly identified the risks pertaining to project management, contractual delays,
and research/extension and training needs of the settlers. However, it did not envisage either the
graduate settlers, or the encroachment problem. Although the SAR identified the role of women it
eld not elaborate on how to improve on their situation, nor did it promote funding for production
inputs. The project, however, established two centers for teaching handicraft works and adult
education, which had limited impact on improving women's welfare.
1.19    Disbursement was spread over eight years, starting immediately after effectiveness, and
continuing through May 30, 1991. In the last year of the project, disbursement was very slow due to
slow procurement of maintenance equipment and vehicles needed by the project. At the end of the
project, a balance of SDR 0.267 million remained which was cancelled on May 30, 1991.
1.20    Except for changing the settlement criteria (para 12), and disagreement with the PBDAC
on the subsidiary Loan arrangement (para 15), project management complied with the remainder of
the project covenants. Deviation from the project agreement on the settlement criteria was a political
decision, necessitated by the population pressure and existence of a large number of unemployed
graduates, while non-compliance with the subsidiary loan clause was caused by a variance of views
of GARPAD with those of the PBDAC on the interest rate to be charged the settlers. IDA
intervened unsuccessfully in both cases but could not alter the strong views held by the Government
on these two issues.
Prolect Results
1.21    The project satisfied the twin objectives of helping the rural poor and establishing a viable
farniing system on the new lands reclaimed from the desert. The project provided housing in 21
villages (one more than planned), all with potable water and electricity, and provided health care and



-6 -
educational facilities. The project also provided road links to nearby markets, and for shopping
facilities within the project area.
1.22    Three years after the settlement of Phase I (7,500 feddan-farmer settlers), agricultural
productivity is still improving and production levels now give farmers a reasonable return (higher than
estimated at appraisal). The project farmers grow a variety of crops and vegetables, in addition to
producing meat and milk from the livestock raised on their farms. Settlement on land reclaimed
during Phase II is more recent and few settlers have cultivated their lands for more than two years.
Settlers of this phase are college graduates and results obtained so far have been mixed, but overall
productivity and production efficiency is slightly lower than that of the smallholder settlers in Phase
I. This is perceived as a lack of practical management experience which will be resolved over time.
1.23    The agricultural support services are provided through cooperatives and the extension staff
associated with them. Agricultural inputs are made available through the cooperatives established
for each village. The Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation (MALR) has established a Farm
Machinery Rental Unit in the area for project farmers. Also, private agricultural machinery hire is
available. Hence, there is no shortage of farm machinery availability in the project area. However,
the lack of collateral limits access to credit (see para. 37).
1.24    The social benefits provided by the project are numerous. The project has provided a
settled, self-contained community, self sufficient in its food requirement, in addition to schools and
health care facilities. One village settlement is totally composed of Bedouin settlers who were
nomadic prior to project implementation. Each village has set up its cooperative to provide
production inputs; it is operated by freely-elected village farmers and assisted by an agricultural
extension agent (a college graduate). In addition, the Community Development Section is continuing
to assist newly arrived settlers, and has set up a women's program to promote better child care and
nutrition, in addition to sewing and handicraft Settlement has also led to better education
opportunities for the sons and daughters of the settlers.
1.25    Environmentally, the project has been a success. The intensity of storms in the area have
subsided, and the area has changed from a barren desert into an oasis. The field and main drains
constructed in the project area have impacted positively on farms located outside of the project area,
as it lowered the groundwater level of the area. Both the settled Delta farmers and the Bedouin are
enjoying a better quality of life than their brethren in the more congested areas of the Delta and the
remaining nomadic Bedouins. Because of better nutrition, health care, and better physical
environment, the general health level of the settlers is better than that of the inland rural areas. The
levels of fertilizers and pesticides used are within normal limits and have not been detrimental to the
environment. Constant removal of the animal manure to the farms has improved both village
sanitation level and farm productive capacity.
1.26    The Training Farm established within the project proper will improve the technical
management through the introduction of better irrigation management and crop production
methodologies. It will also introduce new crop varieties of higher production potential and others
hitherto unknown to the settlers.



- 7 -
1.27    The Ministry of Health has implemented the component related to the bilharzia
consolidation control program in the Middle and Upper Egypt As a result of control measures
undertaken by the Ministry, the incidence of bilharzia infection was reduced from 10% in 1984, to
8.9% and 6% for the Middle Egypt and Giza Govemorates respectively in 1989.
Economic Analysis and Cost Recoverv
1.28    Table 5-B shows the economic analysis of the agricultural benefits accrued from the project.
Crop production composition differs considerably from appraisal estimates: more vegetables and
fodder crops and less field crops have been produced than estimated, and no sugar beet is grown on
the farms. Except for berseem where actual yields are greater than estimated, appraisal estimates of
crop yields in the early years of implementation are similar to those currently obtained. Livestock
production exceeds appraisal estimates. The economic rate of return currently estimated stands at
13.3%, as compared to the appraisal estimate of 10.8%.
1.29    The farmsteads were provided to settlers and graduates at cost, which included the capital
cost of land development, irrigation and drainage installation, and housing. Investment costs in
electrical, telephone, potable water and other social infrastructure were excluded as it was assumed
these would be recovered through normal user charges. The investment costs were to be recovered
under a 20 year mortgage arrangement, following a two year grace period. However, no interest
charges were applied. To prevent speculation, settlers were required to live in the village,
demonstrate their capacity to farm (i.e. cultivate the land), and are not permitted to sell the land until
the mortgage is fully repaid. Settlers receive a settlement subsidy of LE 50/month for one year and
receive WFP assistance for three years.
Prolect Sustainabilt
1.30    The life line of the project is the Nasr Canal and the greatest risk is the diminution of
irrigation water supplies. Maintenance of this canal and its five pumping stations, and the Regional
Main Drain, would be assured by the Ministry of Irrigation. The first 28 km of the canal (from the
canal's intake at Nubariya to 7 km west of the desert road) were constructed in 1971. Part of the
lining of this segment was in very poor condition and portions of the canal from its intake to Pumping
Station No. 3, suffered from design problems and construction defects. IDA raised this issue with
the Borrower, however, only minor repairs were undertaken and, if unresolved will remain a threat
to long term sustainability.
1.31    The settlers are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the tertiary canals
adjacent to their fields. Excellent cooperation exists among the settlers on the issue of water
distnbution. The village cooperatives assist in maintaining this self-management aspect of irrigation
water distribution. Settler cooperation will contribute to the sustainability of the project.
1.32    Maintenance of other infrastructure (potable water and electricity, schools, and health care
units) is the responsibility of the respective Ministries. These Ministries have adequate service staff
in place to provide the necessary maintenance and repair of the existing infrastructure. The Ministry
of Rural Communities will continue supporting the social programs in the project area. Likewise, the



-8-
MALR will continue the extension program, and will develop the Training Farm further.
Maintenance of support to thcse technical and social infrastructure will follow similar support given
elsewhere in the country.
1.33    Farmer input requirements are regularly available through the village cooperatives. In
addition, farm machinery is readily available in the area from three sources, ie., the cooperatives
themselves, the MALR machinery unit on the project, and from private sources.
IDA Performance
1.34    IDA performed quite well during the course of preparing and supervising the project. The
project was regularly supervised with minimum change of supervision staff. Some of the problems
that later arose could possibly have been eliminated through a phased implementation thus lifting
some of the pressure on the project staff. During the course of implementation, IDA staff
recommended numerous solutions to resolve project shortcomings. While the Borrower acted on
some of IDA!s recommendations, other problems were left unresolved, including the provision of
adequate management staff and encroachment1. Issues raised on soil irrigability, salinity and sodicity
were addressed early during preparation of the project. Other points on the research efforts, settler
training, and organization and relocation of the training farm on the project site itself were raised by
successive review missions before action was taken. IDA assisted GARPAD to identify and put
together a skeletal management unit and staff the engineering and agricultural units to address
immediate problems; training and skill needs also were assessed by IDA
1.35    The supporting agricultural aspects of the project had both conceptual and implementation
problems. IDA's proposal for supporting agricultural development overlooked several important
points. Firstly, the location selected for carrying out the experimental work to address land
reclamation methodology and for evaluating crop performance was not representative of the soils of
the project area, and the irrigation water source was unreliable. Secondly, the proposition to establish
a training farm of 25 housing units and 150-feddan cropland was impracticaL The notion of bringing
farmers and their wives in groups of 25 families for training for six months before settlement in the
project areas was not practical, given the social consequences of frequent family relocations and the
additional hard work involved in the reclamation of the plots on the training farm and then repetition
of the same work on their permanent plots at the project site. Further, the soil type on which the
training farm was located differed from that of the project area, hence the cropping pattern and crop
management would not have been transferable. Thirdly, although sugar beet production technology
was developed in the area, these technologies were not applied as a sugar factory was never
established in the area, and farmers were reluctant to include sugar beet in their cropping systemY
1' Contrary to the Borrower's claim, encroachment was an important factor In delaying Implementation of Phase 11
of the project as Irrigation and drainage canals could not be completed due to the presence of the encroacher
seltlements In the way of the machines. During the last year of the prolect, the army was finally used to move the
encroachers out.
Y Experimental works were to be moved to the training farm; however, 1ARPAD did not succeed In securing a
continuous Irrigation water supply required by the experimental work program and therefore the Idea never
materialized. The experimental farm was later established at the project site.



-9-
1.36    The appraisal estimate of only one year leaching requirement was overly optimistic, and
inconsistent with the Egyptian practices of soil leaching and planting salt tolerant crops (i.e. barley
and berseem) to prepare the land for normal cultivation. This facet of land reclamation should be
kept in mind in future reclamation activities to ensure the arriving settlers receive assistance during
a minimum of two-year reclamation period. Continuous failure of the trials at the experimental farm
pointed to the need for a minimum of two years of leaching and cultivation, before reasonable crop
yields would be anticipated. For this project, GARPAD provided assistance to the settlers only for
one year. However, WFP assistance to settlers continued for three years after settlement.
Borrower Performance
137    The borrower was slow in the execution of the land reclamation contracts, especially in the
installation of the field drains of Phase I, due to inefficiency of the company awarded the contract.
The company foliowed its own procedures, and disregarded directives of the supervising engineer,
resulting in poor quality work The company claims that the delays were caused by the inefficiency
of the sub-contractors. However, this blame cannot be passed on to subcontractors, as the
responsibility still lies with the company for insufficient prequalification and insufficient supervision
of its subcontractors. Also, encroachers were not removed from the land, in spite of early alert by
successive IDA missions, thus delaying implementation. This problem was further complicated by
political cvents and responsibility overlap as the project area was physically located within two
Governorates, Alexandria and Marsah Matruh. The issue of encroachment by illegal settlers was
resolved only in the closing days of the project, delaying reclamation in a portion of the area. Part
of the Nasr Canal, the lifeline of the project, remained in need of urgent repair, especially between
Pumping Station No. 2 and Pumping Station No. 3. Although some rehabilitation work was started,
much more work remains to be done to ensure adequate irrigation water delivery to the project area
in the future.
1.38    An important performance weakness of the Borrower was in managing the project from
Cairo, some 160 km distant from the project site. Four years after project effectiveness GARPAD
finally assignei a resident project manager. Even then, the project managers remained without
adequate administrative and technical staff and lacked specific budgetary allocation, transportation
and financial authorization. Not only was the assignment of the agricultural staff delayed, but those
appointed were technically unprepared to carry out the required agricultural extension programs.
Training activities of the agriculture staff were poorly organized and inadequate. Operation of the
on-site Training Farm was postponed due to delays in completing the irrigation and drainage network
and in assigninO competent staff to conduct meaningful training.
139    The Borrower also failed in securing normal credit facilities for farmers, since farmers lacked
loan collateral required by PBDAC (that is, title ownership to their lands). IDA could not resolve
this problem because it touched on the PBDAC's lending policy. There is anecdotal evidence that
farmers sold jewelry and livestock to raise funds to finance themselves through the initial settlement
period. A survey carried out in the project area indicates that each settler needed LE Z800 for
subsistence during the first cropping season. Settlers could not get credit until the establishment of
the cooperatnies in the last three years of the project Only when the cooperatives formed could
credit, guarmqteed by the General Cooperative Authority operating in liaison with GARPAD, be
channeled through the cooperatives to the settlers.



- 10 -
1.40    A further shortcoming from the Borrower side was in the preparation of the graduate
settlers to become effective farmers. These settlers are long on enthusiasm but short on experience;
to prepare them for a farming career IDA requested the Borrower to prepare an extensive training
program for them. However, the program is yet to be fully implemented.
Prolect RelatlonshiR
1.41    IDA and the Borrower had a cordial relationship throughout the project implementation.
Both parties appreciated the conceptual complexity of the project, but perhaps neither fully
appreciated the implementation complexity. The Borrower acknowledged the relevance of IDA's
comments, suggestions, and implementation requests but did little to accelerate the solution of project
problems. Alternatively, IDA underestimated the time required to resolve some of the social/political
problems encountered.
1.42    On the basis of a subsidiary loan agreement, PBDAC was to provide farmer credit for
purchase of machinery/equipment for project farmers. However, PBDAC and GARPAD were unable
to agree on loan conditions. With IDA's intervention, it was subsequently agreed that GARPAD
would procure the machinery for distnbution to the cooperatives, with PBDAC serving as the
collection agency for GARPAD.
1.43    The Borrower's relationship with other agencies proceeded smoothly, including staffing of
the schools and clinics through the Ministries of Education and Health, supervision of the electrical
and potable water network through the Ministries of Electricity and Water, and continuation of social
programs through the Ministry of Communities. Also, the Ministry of Irrigation provided sufficient
quantities of irrigation water.
Consultn Services
1.44    The project was prepared by a consulting firm from the U.K which carried out a
comprehensive study of the proposed project area. Also, the firm provided consultants to supervise
,he Experimental Farm linked with the project, and, in cooperation with local staff, supervised the
construction and design of the engineering works under the project in both Phases I and IL During
project implementation, the firm provided a consultant to help improve project management. The
engineering works were routinely supervised and detailed recommendations were made by the
consultants as necessary.
1.45    The managerial aspects of the consultancy were less successful. Project design was complex
and only limited influence could be brought to bear on the Public Sector Engineering company
implementing the civil works components. Lack of support staff to assist the consultant in gathering
needed information was the main reason for inadequate results obtained.
1.46    The agricultural trials carried out by consultant staff did not yield any useful or concrete
recommendation for use in the project area. Due to salinity problems and irrigation water
irregularity, experimental results were not dependable and results from this research station were not
applicable to the project area (see para 11). This reflects less on the consultants, per se, than on the
IDA appraisal mission who did not identify this mis-match.



- 11 -
1.47    The consultants for the execution of the bilharzia components worked independently with
the Ministry of Health. They performed well and the component was satisfactorily implemented. A
separate report on the results obtained has been submitted to the Ministry of HealthI.
ProLect Documentation and Data
1.48    The legal documents were well prepared and covered most aspects of project
implementation and finance. However, the project management issues were not sufficiently detailed.
It alluded to management aspects, in general terms, but received only cursory attention by the
Borrower. In future lending agreements, project management should be clearly defined and strongly
emphasized with conditionality that non-compliance would possibly lead to loan/credit cancellation.
1.49    The Staff Appraisal Report and the related project File served as useful tools during project
supervnision. Initially, the collection of monitoring and evaluation data on the project was poor,
making it difficult to obtain factual information on the historical development of the project as well
as cropping data. In the latter years of the project, monitoring improved with crop production and
yield data being collected seasonally4. Future projects should ensure the early establishment of a
strong monitoring and evaluation unit to follow up on project implementation activities.
Lessons Learned
1.50    The appraisal mission was overly optimistic on the time frame needed for project
implementation. This is especially true uf a complex project such as this one, which involved land
reclamation works, construction of irrigation canals, building of the infrastructure requirements such
as the supply of potable water, electricity, housing, schools, health centers, shops, etc. involving many
governmental agencies.
1.51    Although some coordination was achieved at the ministerial levels, project management was
weak, loosely coordinated and lacked sufficient staff; on-site implementation was almost casuaL
Project management, including monitoring and evaluation, must be fully addressed at appraisal to
ensure management and staffing needs are adequately positioned for project implementation.
1.52    The Principal Bank for Development and Agriculture Credit (PBDAC) required collateral
from the farmers before extending credit, making loans difficult to get since farmers lacked ownership
title to the land they were cultivating. This matter should have been settled at appraisal to facilitate
subsequent settlement in reclaimed areas.
1.53    The relationship and con, -ol of the public sector companies which were likely to submit
winning bids for civil work tenders were not assessed at appraisaL As it turned out some of these
Al Pla  se 'Report of an Independent Evaluation Mission on the National Blihauzia Control Program In Egypt,
1985',Volume 81. ( 1987, pp 1-57 Supplement) issued by the Mlnistry of Public Health, Arab Republic of Egypt.
5 IDA's request for collecing seasonal yield data i8 termed *excessive  as referenced In Para 24, Part 11.



- 12 -
companies came under the same Government agency implementing the project, making enforcement
of contractual agreements difficult.
1.54    Unrealistic recommendations regarding the Training Farm resulted   in unnecessary
expenditures since the farm was never sufficiently developed to be utilized and the plan drawn up at
appraisal was not implemented.
1.55    Lessons learned for future implementation of similar projects are: (i) a realistic assessment
of time needed for project implementation based on the complexity of the project; (ii) insuring
presence of a strong on-site project management team; (iii) the project would insure availability of
credit to settlers at the time of their arrival and assumption of agricultural works (iv) some basic
guidelines should be set forth when bids are awarded to public sector companies to safeguard
adequate implementation of contract conditions; (v) recommendations on the institutional set-up
should be realistic and adequately fit project needs.



- 13 -
PART II. PROJECT REVJIEr FROM BORROW'S PSRSPECTIVE
1    Zntroduction
.   The sugar beet project is part of a major one known as
the West Nubariya Extension Project which involves the
reclamation, agricultural development and settlement of a
gross area of some 113,750 feddans in the western deser:. This
major project is located south of the Maryut Company Farm,
nor-h of the Nasr Canal and to the west of the Cairo to
Alexandria desert rzad.
2    Since 1952, the Government of Egypt (COE) has given
utmost consideration and detailed attenti on to land
reclamation projects in. order to enhance the standard of
living and provide more acceptable life potentials for all
classes of people. Thus, general organisations and
authorities, in a'f4liarion with ancillary companies, were
estat,lshed to achieve ehe task of land reclamation. The prime
ai-s of which are specifically related to the following
objectives:
a)   increasing agricultural production to achieve food
self sufficiency:
b)   easing of the over populated areas in the old lands;
c)   providing job opportunities and raising the living
standa:d of people;
d)   creating new societies with considerably improved
living conditions and generating a haalthier
environment; and
e)   encouraging the private sector to play an effective
role in the agricultural development of the country.
3    The sugar beet project was planned to reclaim a nat area
of some 24,000 feddans for intansive agriculture. The project
plan contained irrigation and drainage works, the constrction
of 21 villages with its associated infrastructure, social
services, administration facilities, and production
enterprises. The settlement of 4,000 smallholders was expected
when each receives a total area of six feddans. Provision for
equipment, machinery, financial support, training and research
were also included in the project plan. Additionally, health
care specifically in relation to consolidating and supporting
the ongoing bilharzia control program in the Giza Governorate
was considered.
4    On completion, the sugar beet project will provide job
opportunities for different classes of workers, in addition to
those selected as landless farmers. The project will play an
effective role in decreasing the food deficit and relieving
population pressure on the old lands. It will also provide a



- 14 -
better quality of life for its inhabitants in the form of a
self contained rural community.
2    Project iaplementation
5    Th- project was implemented in two phases of 7,200 and
16,800 feddans for Phase I and It respectively. Implementation
difficulties could not be completely avoided in such a major
and complex project. This is especially noticeable when in
reclamation work is involved. These difficulties contributed
to some delays in the reclamation work of Phase I.
The main reasons for these unavoidable delays were:
a)   the election of houses and other buildings was sub-
contracted. The standard of the sub-contractors was
less than satisfactory and they failed to complete
the scheduled work on time. The executing company EL
A Kariya had to withdraw the job orders from the
sub-contractor after wasting too much time
attempting the work:
b)   laying down the field drains at a specified depth in
the hard calcareous soil of the project required
specialised machinery. The procurement of such
machinery from overseas normally consumes
considerable time:
c)   raw materials required for the manufacturing of PVC
pipes were not available on time and had to be
imported;
d)   there was a delay in the delivery of some of the
equipment ordered from overseas. At one point a
Caterpillar Factory in the United States delayed the
delivery of equipment for more than six months due
to a *trike at the factory; and
e)   changing the technique of lining during the
execution of the works required special machines
which also had to be imported.
El A Kariya company is ane of the strongest public sector
companies in the country. It has a very good reputation and
has a competitive technical and administration set up. The
contribution that this company has made in the field of land
reclamation should not be ignored. This company has been
victilised by attributing the delay to a weaknesses on the
part of the company.
6    Delays encountered in Phase II were not as extreme as
tnose in Phase I. Encroachers were the main reason for most of
these delays. However, the encroachers problem was being
solved gradually along with the progress of the reclamation
work. In most cases and with negotiation, encroachers allowed
the equipment and machines to pass through their holdings and
carry out the required operations in anticipation of reaping
benefits from the project. Most of the encroachers were



- 15 -
Bedouins who have been there on the site for centuries. This
problem has been solved.
7    Selection and implementation of the agricultural
experimental station 10 km away from the project, was carried
out three to four years prior to the possibility of having a
suitable sits with irrigation water supply within the project.
The experimental station was later transferred to the project
site in 1986. It may be correct that the results obtained from
the experimental farm were far below those predicted, however,
the station was selected and run by international experts and
consultants for quite a number of years.
The station did, however, succeeded in introducing sugar beet
to an area where it had not previously been cultivated. Also
the station was able to train numerous subject matter
specialists in the field of irrigation, agronomy, and farm
management.
a    The experimental  tation was finally transferred to the
project area in the immediate vicinity of the El Nasr Canal. A
considerable amount of activities have been carried out in the
station during t;ie past four years. These include:
a)   installing tile drains and connecting them to the
main drain;
b)   fencing the station and planting wind breaks;
C)   constructing a meteorological station and service
buildings;
d)   dividing the station into seven plots, each to be
utilised to demonstrate different agricultural
activities (fruits, vegetable, crop, and livestock
production, and experimental);
e)   establishing a soil laboratory operating within the
farm to present services to the farmers in the
project and serve the experimental farm;
f)   introducing different promising crops of various
varieties and also introducing new techniques to the
area, such as drip and sprinkler irrigation; and
g)   developing nursery facilities for the production of
seedlings on a fairly large scale to assist the
settlers.
9    It is hard to believe that the role of the institutions
responsible for the project were not clearly defined. The
General Authority for Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural
Development (GARPAD) with the large number of highly qualified
aiid experienced staff was the executing agent for the project.
International Consultants approved by the Bank were employed
to assist and advise GARPAD. Three prominent and capable



- 16 -
companies (two from Egypt and one from China) were intrusted
to carry out the reclamation work.
The function of project manaqement unit during the initial
years of land reclamation may be only confined to monitoring
the companies activities which is quite normal for such an
extensive project. Therefore, the management should not be
blamed for the delays which were due to so many combined
unavoidable reasons. Some of these reasons were mentioned
earlier.
10   One of the main objectives of this project, as indicated
in the staff appraisal report, was to improve income
distribution and generate employment by the settlement of
smallholders selected from among the rural population of over
populated areas of the country. The selection of college
graduates in part of this project did not violate the
development agreement but it helped in achieving its obiective
which is currently very crucial to the country. College
graduates selected for the project were landless', preferably
from an agricultural family or with an agricultural background
and/or an agricultural degree. They had too be prepared to live
as.., work under the new environment of such a reclamation
project. It is believed that graduates would be able to adapt
to new ideas and develop their society in a very smooth manner
to a qreater extent than the less educated settlers. The idea
of selecting a household of at least three persons, including
at least one person of working age, in addition to the
selected settler, may not be fruitful as the majority of
farmers are. curre.ntly considerably more aware of the necessity
to educate their children. Far more so than other people. A
high percentage of the farmers no longer allow their progeny
to inherit their farminq career. They generally encourage them
to attend education institutes and ensure they follow a
totally different vocation. Therefore, the idea of involving a
family member of a settler in farming is redundant. Forming a
new society in the field of agriculture from highly qualified
volunteers is a pioneer and exciting exercise which deserves a
chance to prove itself as correct and commendable. It ought
therefore to be given a fair chance to verify its viability.
12. The idea of training selected farmers for six months to
become leader farmers was theoretically plausible, its
implementation did not prove practical. This idea may be
practical in countries where farmers have less experience in
farming under irrigation. Egypt has been using irrigation
systems for thousands of years and Egyptian farmers have
considerable exDerience with irrigation practices. Efforts
would have been better directed at providing the settlers with
the most up to date techniques rather than wasting time
attempting to retrain them with skills they already know. The
situation that made it very diffirult and practically
impossible to convince the selected settlers to-attend
training was that they were expected to settle on the training
farm for six months after which they were to be relocated to a
new area.



- 17 -
12   The allegation that the project management remained weak
throughout project implementation is an unjust statement. The
management experienced many problems which should have been
expected in such large and complex project but these problems,
should not mask the relentless efforts exerted by the
management body under the severe desert conditions. The
management had to be involved i!l the selection of the
settlers, checking and following up the activities of the
contractors, distributing the land and checking and operating
the irrigation system. These activities were but a few of the
efforts of the managsment. Without these efforts the project
would not have been what it is today. The project is
considered one of the most successful and integrated
agricultural projects in the country.
During the first four years of the project life tihere was no
need to maintain a project manager at the site. During these
four years the reclamation companies were engaged in the
construction and reclamation work. The role of project manager
normally starts at the end of the initial period of the
project life.
13   Extension activities in the project went through
different periods of progress alternating with periods of
weakness. Finally there is an extension officer for each of
four villages in the project, each serving not more than 800
farmers. All the extension staff are supervised by a deputy
manager responsible for the extension services within the
project. It is intended that the number of extension workers
in the project be increased to one per village.
14   Apart from the official extension staff there are
numerous extension agencies offering their services to the
farmers, namely:
a)   research institutes of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) through their research station at Nubariya.
This station is responsible for research related
particulary to the development of agriculture in
Nubariya and other similar recently reclaimed lands.
The introduction of new varieties of improved crops
suitable for this area, new techniques and up to
date information about agricultural development are
of great interest to the staff working in the
station;
b)   Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the
United Nations (UN) is running an extension program
in the Nubariya area. This program is also servinq
the project. FAO has three extension demonstration
farms in the area. The experimental farm of the
project is considered one of them. Being apart of
the FAO program the farm will be able to offer an
excellent extension service to the settlers;
c)   the German agency for technical co-operation (GTZ)
has started an extension program called "Sugar Beet



- 18 -
and Oil Crops" in collaboration with the central
research institute. The program aimed at the
promotion of sugar beet and oil crop production
within the area. Pioneer farmers from different
villages have been selected and given the necessary
training in this field. These :armers will be able
to transfer the new concepts to the neighbouring
villages. The program is progressing well;
d)   the international centre for agricultural
development at Amriyia is organising regular
training courses for the extension staff on the
project; and
e)   a number of Alexandria University staff
occasionally visit the pr'ject to exchange views
with the extension workers and to enlighten them on
the most up to date techniques in different fields
of agriculture.
All the above mentioned agencies have been offering different
training facilities and courses aimed at increasing the
efficiency of the settlers and improving their performance.
The efforts of all these agencies also provide a unique
opportunity for the extension staff to gain more experience in
this field. In spite of the appearance that all the agencies
are working in isolation they are, in fact, all aiming at the
same objective and are thus working in close cooperation. They
are providing suitable extension services not only to the
extension staff but also to all the settlers.
is   The role of women on the project has not been neglected.
in Phase I      only married settlers were selected. The major
responsibility of the wives is to care for the children. All
other household chores including cooking, cleaning and milking
are normally carried out by the wives. Few of them can help
their husbands with the field work.
Teaching the wives to carry out some of the above mentioned
tasks is receiving attention from the extension staff who
increasingly devote more of their time to instructing the
wives' skill in other useful handwork such as weaving,
knitting and handicraft.
i6   In Phase I: though most of the settlers were not married
both men atid women were selected. The women graduates, being
educated, were expected to be able to adapt quickly to the new
environment and make enormous improvements to it. They are
required to contact the more recently settled wives and assist
in their training.
It is hardly surprisinq to observe so many marriages between
graduates in some villages. It is in fact a pioneer trial to
create a rural society formed mainly by graduates. Let the
results speak for themselves, as it is premature to judge the
success or the failure of a two year old trial.



- 19 -
3    Project Results
17   The project is an integrated project which provides
suitable land for cultivation with access to an adequate
supply of irrigation and potable water, electricity, health
care, schooling, internal road network and road links to
nearby markets, shopping facilities and bakeries. In total 21
villages, includinq a project centre, were constructed with
sufficient accommodation for the expected 4,000 settlers and
other workers on the project. Irrigation and drainage systems
have also been constructed to serve a total area of 24,000
feddans.
The stipulated objectives for this project have been
satisfactorily achieved. The project, without doubt, has added
to the agricultural production of the region, and contributed,
remarkably, by generatinq employment for both smallholders and
graduates, alike, who were selected from among the rural
population of-over populated areas of the country. it has
proved to be an ideal project and a basis for policy
improvements in the new lands.
is   The majority of the settlers in Phase r (7,320 feddans)
were landless farmers. They have inherited fairly
recommendable agricultural experience)though. it has generally
been restricted to traditional approaches. A reasonable profit
margin was achieved within a short period of time, three
years, by almost every settler in this Phase. However, there
is still room for improvement. F'ew of the settlers in Phase I
(only one village) were originally Bedouin. Bedouins are not
generally familiar with the new life in settled agricultural
society. They have insufficient experience in agricultural
practices due to their nomadic existence prior to their
selection. However, they have been trying to emulate their
neighbours in this field. Commendably, they were able to
quickly learn new ideas and the level of production from their
plots is comparable with the other settlers.
The settlers in Phase I1 (16,800 feddans) were all graduates
selected from rural areas. The majority were selected due to
their agricultural specialisation, graduates from other
disciplines were, however, also selected. Their performance
within one or two years in the field appears promising, thotugh
it is premature to judge at this stage. Further time is
required to give a final and correct assessment in this
regard. As educated people, young and ambitious, their
performance in the near future is expected to be much better
than that of the less educated settlers. It is believed that
they will be able to adapt new ideas and use the most up to
date techn:ques in the agricultural business. This may
contribute to this project developing faster than originally
imagined.
19   There is no doubt that the project is a success in all
aspects. It has had a very recommendable impact on the social
life of the settlers by the creation of a self-contained
community which is self-sufficient in its food requirements.
The project has provided the area with well equipped schools



- 20 -
of diff6rent levels (primary, preparatory and secondary),
health care centres and a hospital. It has also furnished
social clubs and shopping facilities.
Cooperatives have been established and registered in all the
villages. '.ach cooperative provides the essential farm inputs
for the settlers. This is normally on a cash basis but
sometimes short tarm credit is available. Other necessary
agricultural services including tractor hiring and crop
marketinq are also provided from the cooperatives. Each
cooperative is directly responsible to the village
agricultural officer who assists the farmers in crop selection
and provides them with other useful extension services.
The project has provided a number of community development
centres with the facilities necessary to assist the settlers
and their wives in promoting their standard of living. Such
centres also arrange women's programs to teach the settler's
wives the art of child care, nutrition, cooking, sewina and
handicraft. S4w:.q machines and minor house equipment have
been given in soft loan credit terms by these centres to some
wives who .ave shown sufficient interest in increasing their
income.
The planting of wind breaks has been encouraged. Each village
boundary has been marked with one or two rows of wind breaks.
Also most of the farmer's fields have been landscaped with
wind breaks which subdue the effect of storms and prevent soil
erosion.
This proiect could be considered an ideal project in terms of
the environment, sanitation level and availability of inputs
and services to tho settlers. Farmers here enjoy a pleasant
life in an integrated self-sufficient and well maintained
project.
Surmlus farm products have been achieved in the project within
a very short period (two years) and it is expected that the
production level will continue to improve.
20   It is true that the project is sustainable as far as the
mainitenance of the water conveyance system, the maintenance of
the infrastructure (water and electricity) and the supply of
input requirements to the farmers are all assured, in addition
to the availability of farm machinery and services in the
area.
The Nasr Canal with its design capacity to irrigate 378,000
feddans is the main source of irrigation water in this
project. The Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) is fully aware of
the vital importance of this canal to such a large area and
vast number of farmers. Efforts have been directed to ensure
the repair of any damage to the lining of this canal and
assure its full maintenance. Thus, minimising the risk of
water supply failure from this canal and hence the
sustainability of the project is guaranteed.



- 21 -
4    International Development Association Performance
21   There is no doubt that the International Development
Association (IDA) performed well during the preparation,
appraisal and subsequent field visits made frequently by the
supervision mi. sions to the project. Although, the missions
used to point out the project's shortcomings and problems
during their numerous visits and stressed the need to solve
them, they failed to understand the reasons behind some of
these problems. Therefore, their approaches to most of these
problems and the associated shortcomings were theoretical
rather than practical. The following are some examples:
a)   selecting the training farm outside the project was
necessary as the farm had to be commissioned a few
years prior to the supply of irrigation water to the
project area. The farm was selected as close as
practically possible to the project area (10 km)
under almost identical conditions to those
experienced in the project area, namely soil types,
water supply and environmental;
b)   the objectives of the training farm were not clearly
identified. As the name implies this farm should
have been for training purpcses only however, the
farm was engaged purely in research with many
experiments on a wide range of crops. Unfortunately
none of these experiments were consistent and no
definitive conclusions were obtained, from them;
c)   the idea of bringing farmers and their wives for
training for six months was impracticable. This
method may be applied in a country where settlers
have no idea about settled agriculture which has
been known in Egypt thousands of years;
d)   IDA completely ignored the experience and background
the farmers had prior to their selection. This was
reflected on the idea of teaching them know how on
the training farm; and
e)   the program drawn up for the training farm has been
dragging between many different objectives mainly
training, extension, and research. It is regrettable
to say that none of them were achieved successfully.
The said program was drawn up and implemented by
international consultants who used to submit reqular
periodical reports to IDA. The results contained in
these reports should have been evaluated and
corrected instantly so that alterations could be
implemented accordingly. IDA started to accuse the
training farm at a very late stage.
22   At the initial stage most of the reclamation works were
carried out by companies on a contract basis. During this
stage the question of having an efficient management unit is
not very striking. This project like any other project in the
area falls in an administrative area with a very well
established and skeletal management unit supported by



- 22 -
professional engineers and agriculturists. This administrative
unit is operated under GARPAD. The project management unit was
formed later at the correct time which seemed to IDA very
late. There was no need to install a management unit doing
practically nothing during the reclamation period prior to the
construction of roads, houses and water supply.
23   IDA stressed the encroachment problem without delving
deep into the root cause of it. Several requests and reports
were received from IDA concerning encroachments. There were
brief delays in some of the construction work, in a few
regions of the project, but at no time did work stop
completely for this reason. To be fair, the majority of what
was entitled "encroaching" was not really so. They were the
genuine occupants of scattered parts of the project area
before reclamation.
Negotiation with them proceeded for some time before an
amicable agreement was reached. This resulted in them being
compensated financially. The few encroachers who arrived at
the site recently in the hope of obtaining illegal benefits
were forced out oL the project area. This is a normal problem
under the prevailing conditions. It has now been solved.
24   The volume of information and data required by IDA during
the implementation of the project was excessive and sometimes
it was not closely related to the project. The frequent and
repeated requests for such information were often discouraging
to the field staff due to their not fully appreciating the
necessity of such information. A situation that has led to the
release of contradicting information on a few occasions.
25   The long procedure of IDA in processing procurement
documents was occasionally responsible for the delay in
obtaining the equipment on time. In some cases a number of
weeks were wasted in answering a large number of queries
concerning tender documents. These were examined by a
committee of engineers and professionals. They scrutinised the
documents and found to be in order prior to their submission
to the bank.
26   The original credit agreement was for a total of US S 80
million. At completion of the project this allowance had
fallen to US S 68.84, a reduction of 14 per cent. This has
resulted in severe financial restrictions with respect to the
project implementation program.
5    Borrover Perforzance
27   There were delays in the execution of the land
reclamation contracts in Phase I especially in the
implementation of the field drains. This was contributed to
mainly by the lack of a machines suitable to excavate at the
required depth in the hard calcareous soils. The procurement



- 23 -
procedures for having such machinery available were very much
delayed. Land was however distributed prior to the
implementation of the field drains. These were later installed
in the presence of the settlers of this phase.
2S   The question of encroacher intrusion and their effect on
the execution of the land reclamation has received more
attention that it deserves. The presence of encroachers in
scattered locations within the project area was responsible
for minor delays. This problem, which was finally solved,
could have been solved at the very beginning with the same
results without causing unnecessary confrontation with the
owners. This would have avoided such delays.
29   The claim that the management of the project remained
weak throughout is not entirely correct.
30   The assignment of a resident project manager after four
years is the norm. A resident project manager is normally
assigned at a stage when the contractors (reclamation
companies) are ready to handover reclaimed land to the
Authority. During the reclamation period GARPAD resident staff
at Nubariya administrative area were the responsible body for
the implementation of the land reclamation, coordination and
supervision of the works as well as solving any problems that
may arise with the executing companies. The project manager
was assigned at the correct time. There were, however, some
minor management problems. Such problems are normally expected
in a new, large project. The management in GARPAD is
considered to be a decentralised system with the headquarters
in Cairo but each project has a fully responsible management
body. This means that the management of the project was not
carried out from Cairo.
31 Training activities and extension services started late
with a very poor plan. There were scattered extension efforts
from different parties with a clear lack of coordination,
proper plans or objectives. Their efforts have not proved
sound though they, at least, contributed to the upgrading of
the awareness of the settlers and their knowledge. Irregular
meetings and visits to the farmers by extension staff from
these different organisations, research centres and
universities have been made to increase the skill of the
settlers and solve their problems. The extension services of
the project will be the responsibility of Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) which has a very sound and well organised
and integrated extension department. This department has links
with all the concerned extension bodies in the country
including universities, research institutes and other
agricultural organisation.
32   Farmers are given some credit facilities mostly in the
form of cash, services and inputs through the established
cooperatives in each village. However, the credit requirements
of the farmers are far above the ability of the these



- 24 -
cooperatives. Most of these cooperatives are very active and
able to supply cash facilities to the farmers from the
Principle Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBOAC)
which normally requires a loan bond or guarantee before
lending money to an individual. They are sometimes able to
obtain credit from the marketing contres or sub-contractors.
Such credit is a short term generally repayable at harvest
time. Though every settler has access to credit one way or
another, either by private arrangement or through cooperatives
and banks, sufficient credit facilities should be made
available to the farmers. This is of particular importance at
the early stages of their settlement. Such facilities will be
very helpful to the farmers to invest in some useful
agricultural projects such as Zivestock, milk production and
processing of agricultural products beside the normal
cultivation equipment required to tend to their land.
33   Training of graduates settlers was never neglected on
this project. Reqular meetings with the extension staff have
been carried out. Subject matter specialists used to visit the
project and give their recommendations, answer the settlers
queries and solve their technical problems..
The training farm, with the recommendations obtained fro=
.similar areas, has been trying to introduce new techniques to
the settlers who are very eager, as educated people, to
acquire the most useful and up to date ideas. GTZ started a
program in the project two years ago to improvo the production
of oil seed and sugar beet crops. Pioneer settlers were
selected from five villages to plant these crops using the
most advanced techniques. The program which provided seeds of
high yielding varieties, new techniques and plot
demonstrations was very satisfactory. The response of the
settlers was also very satisfactory and encouraging. This was
observed by the high demand of the settlers and their reqular
attendance of the frequently arranged meetings with the
experts and the extension staff.
Additionally, the international centre in Amriyia has been
engaged in training of the settler graduates of the project.
One of the advantages o' the graduate settlers is their
ability and readiness to acquire and absorb new ideas. Also
most of the graduates are either from farming families with
sufficient background in agriculture or with a degree in
agriculture. Generally speaking the extension services in the
project are not as poor as indicated in Part One of the
report.
34 The question of the consultancy services rendered by
ULG-UK during the preparation, design and implementation of
the project was mainly technical assistance. The managmental
aspects were completely handled by Egyptian counterpart
managers and assistants. Though there were some problems the
project is considered as one of the most successful projects
in Egypt and ever in the whole region. It is one of the ideal
projects in the field of land reclamation.



- 25 -
35   tt is a fact that the agricultural trials carried out by
ULG staff did not materialise into any useful or concrete
recommendations for use in the project area. The blame should
have boen directed to ULG for the poor performance and also to
the IDA staff who never put forward any positive criticism to
the reqular monthly reports submitted to them by ULG on their
findings and activities. The management of the project should
not be the only one blamed for the very poor performance and
the weakness of the ULG consultants.
6    Conclusions
36   This section is intended to present a brief resume of the
complications encountered with the implementation of the
project and how they may be avoided in future projects.
It would appear as if, at the design stage, adequate
consideration to the soil conditions and canal lining was not
given. Both resulted in a requirement for the importation of
specialised machinery a procedure that is known to be
prolonged. The availability of raw materials should also be
given a high consideration during this stage.
Detailed evaluation of the tenders should indicate if the
contractor has sufficient facilities, either alone or in
association with sub-contractors to complete the necessary
work schedule.
As has been stated above the main contractor to which the
contract was awarded is one of the most reputable in this
profession. However, his sub-contractor was responsible for
considerable delays which resulted in the management focusing
considerably more time and effort attempting to rectify these
problems than should have been necessary.
strici enforcement of the contract document and technical
specifications will also assist in the timely completion of
such projects.
In order to avoid delays arising due to the contents of tender
and contract documents it should be possible to have a
standard format acceptable to both the Donor Agency and the
Authority to which only minor modifications should be
necessary for each contract.
Considerable emphasis has been given to the nomadic tribes who
previously occupied tn- reclaimed districts. The minor delays
assaciated with there compensation could have been avoided if
negotiations had commenced at the outset of the project. These
should be carried out in an amicable way and with a very
sympathetic approach. Standard compensation rates should be
established favouring the victims of such developments in
order that these problems are not encountered in the future.
Such an extensive training plan requires considerable thought
prior to its implementation. It is critical that the
priorities are defined at an early stage. These should be



- 26 -
determined in close association with the trainees. Their
initial experience is of paramount importance. Small groups of
equivalent standards should be established and on job training
should be carried out. In future it would undoubtably prove
more efficient to have the trainers moving between villages
and instructing in the field than at a remote training centre.
Emphasis should be given to extending local practices wherever
possible and practical.
Extensive credit facilities have been made available to the
settlers however, these are generally short term and as such
may not prove sufficient to cater for the farmers, long term
needs. The introduction of subsidies, guaranteed retail
pricos, or incentives would at least ensure the repayment of
the loan and could be issued in the form of a bond. An
alternative would be to encourage the amalgamation of several
farmers' resources.
The private sector should be encouraged to become involved to
a more significant level. This could be in the form of
providing more extensive credit facilities, to the erection of
processing factories and transportation companies allowing the
produce to be efficiently transtorred more viable outlets.
The fluctuation in the economic climate during the project
implementation resulted in a 14 per cent decrease in available
funds. This is primarily due to the instability of the Special
Drawing Rights (SOR). It should be considered that stability
of this currency would benefit the borrower enormously and
assist in the timely and effective project implementation.
In general it would appear that on future projects emphasis
should be given to ensuring efficient communications and
coordination between all the parties involved. It is hoped
that this will overcome such delays caused by:
-    changes in design;
-    lengthy discussions concerning tender documents:
-    the contractor's apparent lack of awareness
concerning the soil conditions and hence his
deficiency in adequate machinery;
-    the poor performance of the sub-contractor;
-    adequate compensation to local inhabitants;
-    initialisation of a suitable training plan either on
the training farm, or preferably at the final site:
and
-    more extensive use of institute facilities having
defined their respective roles and goals.



- 27 -
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans antlor Credits
_________________________________________________________________- _- _
Loan/Credit                                   Year of
Number             Title                     Aknroval         Status
1. Cr. 181     Nile Delta Drainage I            1970           Closed
2. Cr. 393     Upper Egypt Drainage I           1973           Closed
3. Ln. 1276    Fruits & Vegetables              1976           Closed
4. Ln. 1235 &
Cr. 637     Upper Egypt Drainage II         1976           Closed
5. Ln. 1439-40 &
Cr. 719     Nile Delta Drainage II          1977           Closed
6. Cr. 833     Agricultural Development         1978           Closed
7. Cr. 988     First Agroindustries Proj.       1980           Closed
8. Cr. 1111    Fish Farming Devt. Proj          1981           Closed
9. Ln. 2243    Second Agroindustries Proj.      1983          On-going
10. Ln. 2270    Irrig. Pump. Stn. Rehab.        1983          On-going
11. Ln. 2561    Agricultural Devt. Proj.        1985          On-going
12. Ln. 2562    Drainage V Proj.               1985           On-going
13. Ln. 2732    Channel Maintenance             1986          On-going
--------------------------------------------------------------__---------



- 28 -
Table 2. Progect Timetable
Item                     Planned          Revised           Actual
-  Reconnaissance                                                  Oct./Nov. 1977
-  Identification (Executive                                      Apr., 1978
Project Summary)
-  Preparation                                                    Nov.~v 1978
-  Preappraisal                                                    Sept., 1979
- Appraisal Mission                                                Jan/Feb. 1980 I/
-  Negotiations                  Sept. 22, 1980                    Sept. 24, 1980
-  Board Approval                                                 Dec. 16, 1980
-  Credit Signature                                                Feb. 2, 1981
-  Credit Effectiveness         June 2, 1981    Aug. 4, 1981    Oct. 5, 1981
-  Credit Completion            Dec. 31,1986    June 30, 1989   Oct. 30, 1990
-  Credit Closing               Dec. 31, 1987   Jun. 30, 1990   Dec. 31, 1990
I/ Appraisal Mission Members: Messrs P. Economides, G. Donovan, N. Monteith,
(Bank) and J. Pilgrim, D. Shoesmith and
G. Webbe (Consultants).
Comments: Project size was the main issue at preparation; this was followed by
doubts on the irrigation suitability of the land; energy requirement was a third
issue.  At appraisal, low project ERR posed problems for the mission; during
implementation, project management, area encroachment, contractual performance, and
appropriate staffing of the agricultural and engineering units were the main issues
addressed.



- 29 -
Table 3. Cumulative Disbursements (by Quarter)
Estimate            Actual                Actual as Z
Quarter Ending              US$ Million         USS Million I/          of Estimate
03/31;80                          0.3                                          0
06/30/80                          0.6                                          0
09/30/80                          0.9                                          0
12/31/80                          1.0                                         0
03/31/81                          3.5                                          0
06/30/81                          6.0                                          0
09/30/81                          8.5                                          0
12/31/81                         11.2                  1.28                   11.4
03/31/82                         15.6                  3.74                   24.0
06/30/82                         20.2                  4.06                   20.1
09/30/82                         24.7                  4.37                   17.7
12/31/82                         29.3                  9.54                  32.6
03/31/83                         35.9                 10.55                   29.4
06/30/83                         42.6                 11.64                   27.3
09/30/83                         49.3                 14.33                   29.1
12/31/83                         56.0                 16.16                  28.9
03/31/84                         60.4                 17.24                   28.5
06/30/84                         64.8                 22.98                   35.5
09/30/84                         69.2                 23.17                   33.5
12/31/84                         73.7                 23.33                  31.7
03/31/85                         75.2                 25.92                   34.5
06/30/85                         76.7                 26.66                   34.8
09N31/85                         78.2                 29.19                   37.3
12/31/85                         79.7                 33.83                   42.4
03/31/86                         79.9                 36.43                   45.6
06/30/86                         80.0                 38.09                   47.6
09/30/86                                              41.19                  51.5
12/30/86                                              43.46                  58.3
03/31/87                                              47.94                   59.9
06/30/87                                              51.60                   64.5
09/30/87                                              53.79                   67.2
12/31/87                                              56.36                  70.5
03/31/88                                              59.42                   74.2
06/30/88                                              59.82                   74.8
09/30/88                                              63.69                   79.6
12/31/88                                              64.47                  80.6
03/31/89                                              65.46                   81.8
06/30/89                                              65.64                   82.1
09/30/89                                              67.06                   83.8
12/31/89                                              67.45                  84.3
03/31/90                                              68.30                   85.3
06/30/90                                              68.50                   85.60
09/30/90                                              68.50                   85.60
12/31/90                                              68.90                   86.10
04/30/91                                              69.80                   87.25
Note:  Historical US dollars equivalent; Credit was in SDRs; final$ disbursement
is about 132 less than originally estimated US$80.00 million.



- 30 -
Table 4(a). Proiect Costs
Project Financing              Actua. Costs
US S milLion                    Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total        LocaL    Exchange
item                                         Cost     Costs      Cost       Costs      Costs     Total
A. RECLAIATION WORKS
- Civit Works                              47.3     35.9       83.2      82.4        58.6     141.0
-Equipment                                  1.0       3.9       4.9       1.0         3.9       4.9
- Consultants                               0.5      3.8        4.3                     -       ---
- Overseas Training                                   0.1       0.1       3.9         3.8       7.7
- Services and Support to Farmers           5.3        -        5.3      58.75        3.9      62.65
...................... ;................................................................................
Subtotal                               54.1     43.6       97.7    146.45       70.2      216.65
- Physical Contingencies                    6.9       5.8      12.7
- Price Contingencies                      38.7      16.6      55.2
................................. I..................................................................................... .
Total Reclamation Works               99.6      66.0      165.6    146.45       70.2      216.65
.                      ~~~~~~.........................................................
S. WORLD FOW PROGRAM ASSISTANCE
Value of Food                              -        2.0       2.0                   3.1       3.1
- Price Contingencies                                 1.1       1.1
).... ....................................................
Total WFP Contribution                   *       3.1        3.1                  3.1        3.1
,...................... ...................................
TOTAL RECLAHAT.ON COST                99.6      69.1      168.7    146.45       73.3      219.75
C. BILNARZIA CONTROL
- Equipment and ChemicaLs                   2.9      14.3      17.2       2.0       12.6       14.6
- Physical Contingencies                    0.3       1.4       1.7
- Price Contingencies                       1.4       3.9       5.3
.... ._....... ...........................................
Total Bilharzia Control                 4.6     19.6       24.2       2.0      12.6        14.6
......... ................ .........................................
Total Base Cost                            57.0      59.9      116.9
Total Physical Contingencies                7.2       7.2       14.4
Total Price Contingencies                  40.1      21.6      61.7
................ ........................ I................
GRAND TOTAL                           104.3     88.7      193.0    148.45    85.9          234.35
Table  4tb).  Proiect  FinancinR
* US$ Mllion
Source                     Local Cost    Foreign Cost    Total Cost
IDA                                             -                   80.0                  80.0
African Development Bank                       4.4                    5.6                 10.0
World Food Program                              -                     3.1                   3.1
Government                                    99.5                    -                   99.5
Farmers                                        0.4                                          0.4
* Finsacing Plan as reported In President's Report. Actual financing is known only for IDA
(SDR 60,632,645.05 out of Credit amount of 8DR 60.9 million), and VFP (USS 3.1 million given
in kind).



- 31 -
Table S. Prolect Re.autl t ltmoentattam
A. piret Zoft!t
I) 1tf
A-etttesmt
Pha  11
Phase I       A               C
(C villages)    (14 villtges each)         Total
.sauuuu.uuu    auau..um-uua-u1auuau       *_-ulu
Area (Fed. net)              6,486      5,838   5,292  5,712        23,328
F/Settler                    1,081        897     901    581          3U460
Housing                      1.419        990   1.045    975         4,429
Staff Housing                  107         89      239     89          524
Offices                          5          2        -      2            9
Transtormer                      8          2       4       2            16
Milk Center                      7          5        5      5           22
Farer Clubs                      7          5       4       5           21
Sad Store                        7          5        4      5           22
Shaps and Bank                   6          4        4      4           18
Police Statfons                  1          1        -       1           3
Cltnic                           1          4        4      4           13
Bakery                           I                                       I
Market                           I          I        -       -           2
Post/Bank                        I          I                1           3
MOsque                           1          1        1       1           4
Schoolt Primary                  7          5        4      5           21
Workshop                         1          5        4       5          I5
Prayng Room                      6          4        4      4           18
Additional Housing             110          -        1                 111
X Comltd
B   Electrieal Works        100X
C - Potable Water Works     100X
0 - Field Drains            100X except area urder encroachment
E - Main Drain               98X
31)  A4r1cultural Development:
Phase I                     100X
Phase II - A                100X
- B                 98X
- C                 70X
111) Silharzia Control            100X
Land Settlement              95X
Procurement of Eqpt.         98X
Oversea Training             952
Support to Settlers         100X
Disbursement                9gS
......................... ................................................... 



- 32 -
Table 5 cont: B. Agricultural Beneffit
Yield                    Area                Production
Appraisal Actual at  Appraisal  Actual at  Appraisat  Actual at
Indicators     Area  Estimate*  Closina    Estimate*   Closina    Estimate*    Closina
X       (ton/fed.)            (thou. fed)             (thou. ton)
Winter Crops:
Berseem          33.3   25.0       31.8         8.0        8.0        200.0    254.0
Onion            12.5    10.0       6.3         3.0        2.0         30.0      12.6
Wheat             8.4     1.8       1.86        2.0        8.0          3.6      10.6
Fava Bean        4.2      1.5       0.68        1.0        4.0          1.5       2.7
Potato           12.5    10.0                   3.0                     3.0
Peas (Green)      8.3     2.0                   3.0                     4.0
Cauliflower       8.3     5.0                   2.0                    10.0
Cabbage           8.3     8.0                   2.0                    16.0
Green Beans      MA      NA                                2.0          4.3
Sub-total        100.0                          24.0
Simmer Crops:
Maize-Grain      33.3     1.8       1.5         8.0        8.0         14.4      11.9
Maize-Fodder**   25.0   28.0        2.15        6.0       (8.0)       168.0      17.2
Sunflower         3.3     1.0                   8.0                     8.0
Watermelon***    8.4    10.0        6.57        2.0        9.4         20.0      61.8
Tomato                              5.8                    2.0                   11.6
Courgette                           6.15                   2.0                   12.3
Cantelopes                          5.15                  24.0                   10.3
Green Beans                         2.57                   0.6                    1.6
Sub-total        100.0                          24.0
Livestock:(Cows and buffaloes)
Meat (tons)                                                             0.27      0.27
Milk (tons)                                                             1.13      2.30
'    Apprafsa  estimates at full development
* It was anticipated that about 25X of the area would be planted to maize for green
fodder use. In practice no maize was used in this manmer.
"' Some watermelon are harvested for seed, thus the statistics presented uider-report the
actual yield and production.
C. Econoic Imact
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Investment Cost                                                          Constant Value  Net
Year Inflation  Nominal Constant   Gross Returns   Production Cost    Net Benfits          Net Benfits   Benefit
Index    Value  Value g    Crop Livestock    Crop Livestock    Crop Livestock    Crop Livestock Stream
(1990)
. - - - - - - - - - - -            - - (LE l)    .
1982     26.1      1.12     4.3                                                                             -4.3
1983     29.0    2.14       7.4                                                                             -7.4
19P'     33.4    5.64       16.9                                                                           -16.9
1985     39.5    6.04       15.3                                                                           -15.3
1986     45.1    19.04     42.2                                                                            -42.2
1987     52.4   30.63      58.4                                                                            -58.4
1988     65.6   21.96    33.5   16.14                 9.35              6.79             10.35             -23.1
1989     83.3   20.69      24.8   29.35      0.74    13.47     0.27    15.88     0.47    19.06     0.56     -5.2
1990    100.0    14.7    14.7   42.17        3.38    14.86     1.97    27.31     1.41    27.31     1.41     14.0
1991    117.0      9.1      9.6   48.50      6.19    14.86     1.55    33.64     4.64    31.41     4.64     28.6
lm                          4.3   48.50    10.17    14.86      2.53    33.64     7.64    31.41     7.64     37.0
1993                        4.3   48.50    14.14    14.86      3.51    33.64    10.63    31.41    10.63     40.0
1994                        3.4   48.50    18.10    14.86      4.48    33.64    13.62    31.41    13.62     43.9
1995 - 2011                 3.4   48.50    18.10    14.86      4.48    33.64    13.62    31.41    13.62     43.9
ERR     0.138
A/ Includes LE2.1 million for OA costs from 1991 onward and
LE2.17 million for livestock investment annually between 1991
and 1994, and LE1.3 million annually from 1995 onward.
kl Without the project there would be no benefit stream as the
project area was desert land with no agricultural production
prior to the project.



- 33 -
Appraisal                  Estimated              EstImete EconoImc
EItiNtmte              tat closifm date)            Rate of Return
10.8                        13.3                      9.6 y
Conments:
1.  Appraisal estmates of crop yIelds were similar to those achieved In the early years of implementation, except for
bersom where actual yields are greater than estimated.
2. Crop production coq3osition differed considerably from appraisal estimates, more vegetables and fodder crops and less
filod crops have been produced than estimated. Production statistics are actual through 1990. Yields are estimated to increase
a further 15% In 1991 as solt fertility Is Increased and farmers acquire more experlence on these solls. Yields were estimated
to plateau at the 1991 level.
3. Livestock devloptnmpt, like the entire project, was delayed as the first animals were distributed In 1988. Subsequently
annual production has exceeded appraisal estimate and full developnent (1994) production is expected to substantially exceed the
appraisal estimate of full develaopent production.
4. The livestock herd Is expected to plateau at the 1994 level. Subsequently, 15X of the milking animals are expected to
be culled amually.  The value of cull animals (for meat) Is estimated to be 40X of the value of replacement animals.
5. The substitution of higher value crops for lower value field crops and the increased production of livestock products
resulted in a economic rate of return higher than estimated at appraisal.
J/   Reflects the estimated ERR wien sugarbeet production was incorporated Into the analysis.  However, sugarbeets were never
produced In the ares.



- 34 -
D. Average Crop Production/Fed., Unft Prices and Value
Crop TypePhase          Produce   Price    Straw    Price    Value      Area
season   No.   Year      Ton      LE       Ton      LE      LE/fed    (fed)
..............................................................................
Winter   I
Berseem         87/88     24.00     8.00                      192.00     2.00
wheat           87/88      0.84   321.43      1.25    48.00   330.00     2.00
B. Beans        87/88      0.48  600.00      0.70    64.29   333.00      1.00
0. Beans        87/88       1.75   300.00                    525.00      0.50
Onions          87/88      4.50   150.00                      675.00     0.50
Suimer   I
mIize           1988       0.95   315.00    1.45    20.69   329.25       2.00
Watermelon       1988      5.00   150.00                      750.00     2.00
Tomato          1988       4.00   200.00                     800.00      0.50
Courgette       1988       4.00   220.00                     880.00      0.50
C. Beans         1988      2.00   300.00                      600.00     0.50
Cantaioupe      1988                         3.50   250.00   875.00      0.50
Winter   I
Berseem         88/89     30.00    10.00                     300.00      2.00
Wheat           88/89       1.20   500.00     1.50    53.33   680.00     2.00
B. Beans        88/89      0.65   700.00      0.95    63.16   515.00     1.00
6. Beans        88/89      2.00   350.00                      700.00     0.50
Onions          88/89      5.50   137.73                      757.52     0.50
Sufefr   I
Maize            1989       1.15  350.00      1.70    26.50  147.55      2.00
Watermelon      1989       6.00   200.00                     1200.00     2.00
Tomato          1989       5.50   250.00                     1375.00     0.50
Courgette        1989      5.00   250.00                     1250.00     0.50
C. Beans        1989       2.50   350.00                     875.00      0.50
Cantaloupe       1989      4.00   250.00                     1000.00     0.50
Winter   I
Berseem         89/90     36.00    15.00                      540.00     2.00
Wheat           89/90       1.50   700.00     2.00   100.00  1250.00     2.00
B. Beans        89/90      0.75   750.00      1.10    72.75   642.53     1.00
G. Beans        89/90      2.50   400.00                     1000.00     0.50
Onons           89/90      7.00   150.00                     1050.00     0.50
Simner   I
.aize            1990       1.35   400.00     2.05    26.50   594.33     2.00
Watermelon       1990      6.50   200.00                     1300.00     2.00
Tomato          1990       6.00   250.00                     1500.00     0.50
Courgette       1990       6.00   250.00                     1500.00     0.50
6. Beans         1990      3.00  350.00                      1050.00     0.50
Cantaloupe       1990      4.50   250.00                     1125.00     0.50
summer  II
maize            1988       0.65   315.00     0.95    26.35   229.78     2.00
Watermelon      1988       4.50   150.00                      675.00     2.50
Tomato           198       4.00   200.00                     800.00      0.50
Courgette       1988       4.00   220.00                      880.00     0.50
6. Beans         1988      2.20   300.00                     660.00      0.50
Winter  It
Berseem         88/89     26.00    10.00                      260.00     2.00
Wheat           88/89       0.75   500.00     1.10    54.55   435.01     2.00
B. Beans        88/89      0.45   700.00      0.65    61.55   355.01     1.00
S. Beans        88/89       1.50   350.00                     525.00     1.00
Sumner  II
aizel            1989       1.00   350.00     1.50    26.67  390.01      2.00
Watermelon       1989       5.00   200.00                    1000.00     2.50
Tomato           1989      4.50   250.00                     1125.00     0.50
Courgette        1989      4.50   250.00                     1125.00     0.50
Cantaloupe       1989      4.00   250.00                     1000.00     0.50
Winter  11
Berseem          89/90    30.00    15.00                      450.00     2.00
Wheat            89/90      1.25   700.00     1.80   100.00  1055.00     2.00
B. Beans         89/90      0.65   750.00     0.95    72.65   556.52     1.00
G. Beans        89/90      2.00   400.00                      800.00     0.50
Onions           89/90     6.00   150.00                      900.00     0.50
Simmer  II
maile            1990       1.25   400.00     1.85    26.67   549.34     2.00
Watermeton       1990       5.50   200.00                    1100.00     2.50
Tomato          1990       5.00   250.00                     1250.00     0.50
Courgette        1990      5.00   250.00                     1250.00     0.50
Cantaloupe       1990      4.50   250.00                     1125.00     0.50



- 35 -
E. Livestock Component
(Cost, Production, and Net Return)
Milk & Heat Phase 1, It (1991 - 1994)
,..... ..........................................
Total Milk    Total
Phase   Anifml    Age/  No. of   and Heat       Feed      Project
Ho.     Type     Years Animals    Value       Value   Net Return
L.E.       L.E.       L.E.
. ....... ............. ................................................................................................... ..
1991
I Cows            6        683    737,640    165,201    572,439
C. Heifer     1.5       531    345,150     88,013    257,137
C. Bull       1.5       310    434,000     61,264    372,736
Buffaloes      6        471    542,592    113,923    428,669
B. Heifer      1        411    226,050     65,041    161,009
B. Bull        1        245    245,000     48,418    196,582
1,791,991
It Cows           4.5       913    821,700    220,832    600,868
C. Heifer      1        798    438,900    126,284    312,617
C. Bull       1.5       440    616,000     86,955    529,045
Buffaloes      4        738    797,040    178,504    618,536
B. Heifer      1        767    421,850    121,378    300,472
B. Butl       1.5       402    562,800     79,445    483,355
2,844,893
4,636,883
..................................................................
lm
I Cows            6        865    934,200    209,222    724,978
C. Heifer     1.5       754    490,100    124,976    365,125
C. Bull       1.5       407    569,800     80,433    489,367
Buffaloes      6        714    822,528    172,699    649,829
B. Heifer      1        674    370,700    106,661    264,040
B. Bull        1        363    363,000     71,738    291,262
2,493,338
11 Cows           4.5      1542  1,387,800    372,971  1,014,829
C. Heifer      1       1465    805,750    231,836    573,914
C. Bull       1.5       760  1,064,000    150,195    913,805
Buffaloes      4       1425  1,539,000    344,672  1,194,328
B. Heifer      1       1445    794,750    228,671    566,079
B. Bull       1.5       735  1,029,000    145,254    883,746
5.146,700
7,640,038
...................................................................
1993
I Cows            6       1033  1,115,640    249,857    865,783
C. Heifer     1.5       977   635,050    163,938    473,112
C. Bull       1.5       503    704,200     99,405    604,795
Buffaloes      6        957  1,102,464    231,474    870,990
B. Heifer      1        937    515,350    148,280    367,070
B. Bull        1        482    482,000     95,255    386,745
3,181,749
it Cows           4.5      2171  1,953,900    525,111  1,428,789
C. Heifer      1       2133  1,173,150    337,547    835,603
C. Bull       1.5      1080  1,512,000    213,435  1,298,565
Buffaloes      4       2113  2,282,040    511,082  1,770,958
B. Heifer      1       2122  1,167,100    335,807   831,294
B. Bull       1.5      1067  1,493,800    210,866  1,282,934
7,448,143
10,629,89
..................................................................
1994
I Cows            6       1200  1,296,000    290,250  1,005,750
C. Heifer     1.5      1200    780,000    198,900    581,100
C. Bull       1.5       600    840,000    118,575    721,425
Buffaloes      6       1200  1,382,400    M,250  1,092,150
B. Heofer      1       1200    660,000    189,900    470,100
B. Bull        1        600    600,000    118,575    481,425
3,870,525
tI  Cows          4.5      2800  2,520,000    677,250  1,842,750
C. Heifer      1       2800  1,540,000    443,100  1,096,900
C. Bull       1.5      1400  1,960,000    276,675  1,683,325
Buffaloes      4       2800  3,024,000    677,250  2,346,750
B. Heifer      1       2800  1,540,000    443,100  1,096,900
B. Bull       1.5      1400  1,960,000    276,675  1,683,325
9,749,950
13,620,475



- 36 -
Table 6. Statm of Cowe
Covenent                                       Dte        Actuat           Stt tu
Sectfo
3.03 Appoint Central Coord.                    12/81       6/82
ComW ttee
3.04 (a) Appoint Eng. Consul.                  12/81       8/83
(b) Appoint Agr. Consult.                12/80       12/83
(c) Appoint Short-term
Tech. & 4qrl. Consult.                   12/84       11/5
3.05 Establish Project Coord.
Comnittee /Project Unit                  12/81       11/84
3.06  - Ensure reconstruction
of lining of Near canal                12/83       9/84          Technical
difficulty
- E =sion of the Near Conal                                        implemented
to Km 67.
- Construction of pLeping                                          Implemented
Stations 45.
- NOI to Guaranteed supply of                                      CompLied
irrig. water to the area
3.07  (a) Procure agr machinery.                                         Amended
(b) Distribute such machinery                                      Arended
In the proj. area.
3.08  (a) Funds to control bilharzfa.                                    Identified
(b) NON to impl. Bilh. cap.                                        Comlied
3.09  Selection of settler criteria            12/81      6/83
by Dec. 31, 1981.
3.11  (a) Furnish association with plans,                                CoWpLied
qpecifications reports, etc.
Cb) Keep the association informed of
relevant information on proj.                                 CompLied
Cc) Present the  inal report six
months after closing date.
4.02  (a) Ensure N & E of proj.                                          Inadecuate
Cb) Submission of annual reports.                                  Complied
4.03 Revision of croping
patterns by Dec. 31, 1982.             12/80      12/82           Complied
4.05  (a) Land tax to include recovery of                                complied
the 0 & N costs of the
main irrigation and drainage;
(b) recover from settlers
sl) on an nnual bsis, the                                          complied
maintenance cost of the
irrigation and drafnage,and
Cii) after a grace period for the
ffirt three cultivation years,
the full capital cost over of 25 years.                            complied
(b) The Borrower shall cause its
agencies responsible for potable water,                            Coplied
electricity and telephone services
to charge consaimrs normal billing
rate applicable to rural areas.
4.06 Upon the completion of the                                          Coplifed
bilherzie control progrm
referred to in Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause Its
Ninistry of Health to continue
such progrm as part of Its activities,
and shell provide said Ninistry
with needed equipoent nd materfals
required for the purpose.



- 37 -
Table 7.      of *    esome
A. Stf Inutt
Stage of
Prolect CveLe      Planned   Revise    Finl            Coments
Through Appraial                              133.5
Appraisal through                               12.2
Board Approval
Board Approval
through
Effectiveness
Supervision                                    129.5
Total                                         275.2
5. NiLu
Nonth/   Number of    Days    Specialization   Performance Rating
Prolet xZ Year                   Persons   in Ffeld  Reniesented a/   Status bL           Problems c/
Thnusb ADra isal
Jan/Feb. 1980          10/77       1          7            Ec        Recormaissance
04/78(Bank- 4         20        E, SS, Ec, C   Identification
FAO)
06/78       1           7           E          Follow-up
09/78       1          5           Ec          Follow-up
10/78       1          12           E         Preparatlon
01/79       1          6           Ec         Pro-feasibility study
04/79       2          18       E, SS         Preparation follow-up
06/79       1          7           E          Preparation follow-up
09/79       3          10       E, SS, Ec     Preappraisal
01/80       6         30        E, Ec, A, Ar, Appraisal
S, B
Board Acoroval
Dec. 16. 1980
Board Approvat
to Effectivermss
October 2, 1981
Sumrvfsin    1          5/82     2           18          E,B           1
Supervision   2        10/82     2           10          EjT           1
Supervision   3        3/83      3           10         Ec,A,Cr        2                  N, T
Supervision   4         7/83     2           11          E,A           2                  N
Supervision   5        11/83     3            7          E,Ec,A        2                  N, T
Supervision   6        2/84      2           14          E,B           2                 N, C, 0
Supervision   7        6/84      1           4            E            2                  N, T
Supervision   8        10/84     1            5           B



- 38 -
(Table 7 Contd.)
Month/    Number of     Days     Specialization   Performance Rating
Prolect Cvcle            Year      Persons    in Field   Represented a/    Status  b/           Problems c/
Supervision    9        11/84      2             5          E, A            2                     , F
Supervision   10         2/85      2             4          E, A            2                    N, F
Supervision   11         3/85      2            11            B             2                    N, 0
Supervision   12         7/85       1            5            A             3                    N, F, T
Supervision   13         9/85      3             5          E, A            3                    N, F, T
Supervision   14        12/85       1            4            E             3                    N, F, T
Supervision   15         2/86       1           10            E             3                    N. 0
Supervision   16         2/86                   12          B, E
Supervision   17         4/86       1            5            A             3                    T, N,O
Supervision   18         8/86       1            5            E             3                    T,O ,N
Supervision   19        10/86       1            9            A             3                    T, 0, 
Supervision   20         4/87      2             9           E, A           3                    O, N, T, F
Supervision   21        11/87      2            14           A. E           3                    0, T, N
Supervision   22         3/88      2            11           E. A           2                    0  N, T
Supervision   23        10/88      4            14         A, E, S, Ec      2                    0, N,T
Supervision   24         2/89      2            10           A,E            2                    0, T, N
Supervision   25         9/89      2            11           A,U            2                    N, 0, P
Supervision   26         4/90       1           10            A             2                    N, 0, T
pj   Key to Specialization:   E: Engireer; A: Agriculturist; Ec: Economist; W: Women in-Devt. Specialist;
B: Bilharzia Specialist; S: Sociologist; C: Crop Prodn. Spec.; SS: Soils Spec.; Ar: Architect;
T: Training Spec.
b    Key to Status: I a Problem-free or Minor problem; 2 a Moderate problems; 3 = Major Problems
g/ Key to Problems: N: Managerial; P: Procurement; 0: Operational; C: Construction; F: Financial;
T: Technical.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
West Nuboriyu
\ X            ~~~M. o   F-  * r  A   
\          ,/             FA.l,d.        <                  /       +  >,/   A                       \~~M.,Yl   F
N~~~~~~~~~~~V
N                                                     V~~~~~~~
N,                                                                   _  f _
qW\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. =               ..                                                      1
N                                                                                                M orruD ,  ar  .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  A#-s                            -JtbeAoonlrOA A A w; mAr78
~~ _ _    _ _  ~~~~~ AIAe   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   lWPobl. WOAA Moi T-k   IO  SsI I 2 3 p,     a^s  cnnsAw
M- dII 



