Document of                   FILE  COP
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3010-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
October 31, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture IV
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 31, 1980)
Currency Unit                Egyptian Pound (LE)
LE 0.70               =      US$1.00
LE 1.00               =      US$1.43
LE 1.00               =       100 Piastres (PT)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fed)        =      1.04 acres (ac)
1 hectare             =      2.38 feddan (fed)
1 kilometer (km)             0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)           =      3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)          35.21 cubic feet (cuft)
1 metric ton (m ton) =       0.984 long ton (ton)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF      -   African Development Fund
ARAD     -   Authority for Rehabilitation Projects and Agricultural
Development
ATB      -   Agricultural Training Board
BDAC     -   Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
CDC      -   Commonwealth Development Corporation (UK)
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization (UN)
IFAD     -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
MMFC     -   Misr Milk and Food Company
ODA      -   Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PBDAC    -   Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit
PGC      -   Potato Growers Cooperative
PPF      -   Project Preparation Facility
SMS      -   Subject Matter Specialist
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
VEW      -   Village Extension Worker
WFP      -   World Food Program (UN)
GOVERNMENT OF ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...........................................          1
-  Agricultural Production and Trade .........................           1
-  Government Plans for Agricultural Investment  ....        .........   2
-  New Lands Development .....................................           3
-  Government Plans for Land Reclamation .....................           4
-  Previous Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector  .....           4
II. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                          5
- General Features.                                                      5
- Climate.                                                               6
- Land Resources.                                                        6
- Water Resources.                                                       7
- Adjacent Land Reclamation Projects.                                    7
-  Population in the Project Region and Area.                            8
-  Agricultural Research, Extension and Veterinary Services              9
- Agricultural Cooperative System .10
- Agricultural Credit .10
- Marketing .11
III.  THE PROJECT  .................................................          13
- Project Origin and Concept .13
- Project Objectives .14
- Project Description .15
- Irrigation .15
-  Drainage .......................................                     18
- Settlement of Small Holders .19
- Farm Machinery and Maintenance .23
- Field Trials and Training Farm .24
- Consultant Services .24
-  Technical Assistance Under the Project Preparation Facility          25
-  Financial Support to Farmers and Compensation to Bedouin             25
- Status of Engineering .25
- Implementation Schedule .26
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission, which
visited the Arab Republic of Egypt in January/February 1980, comprising
Messrs. P. Economides, G. Donovan and N. Monteith (Bank) and J. Pilgrim,
D. Shoesmith and G. Webbe (Consultants).
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents  (Continued)                                                       Page No.
-  Bilharzia Control ......................................                      26
-  Cost Estimates .........................................                      28
-  Financing  ..............................................                     28
-  Procurement  ............................................                     30
-  Disbursement ...........................................                      31
-  Auditing and Accounts  ..................................                     32
-  Environmental Effect ...................................                      32
-  The Situation and Role of Women ........................                      33
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............................                       33
-  Implementing Agencies and Their Responsibilities               .......        33
-  Central Coordination Committee .........................                      34
-  Project Unit ...........................................                      35
-  Regional Implementation Committee ......................                      36
-  Maintenance of Project Works  ...........................                     36
-  Agricultural Research, Extension and Training                ..........       37
-  Agricultural Cooperatives  ..............................                     38
-  Farm Machinery Service .................................                      39
-  Agricultural Credit ....................................                      39
-  Community Development  ..................................                     40
-  Marketing of Project Output ............................                      40
-  Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................                      41
-  Implementation of Bilharzia Control Program ....              ........        42
-  Project Risks ...........................................                     43
V.  PRODUCTION, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....................                       44
-  Agricultural Production ................................                      44
-  Crop Production ........................................                      44
-  Animal Production ......................................                      45
-  Markets and Prices .....................................                      45
-  Beneficiaries and Repayment Capacity ...................                      46
-  Economic Rate of Return ................................                      46
-  Sensitivity Analysis  ...................................                     48
-  Justification of the Bilharzia Control Program               .........        49
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................                      49
ANNEX 1: Tables and Graphics
Table 1  - Cost Estimates .51
Table 2       -  List of Project Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  52
Table 3       -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . .                  53
Table 4       -  Suggested Cropping Patterns--Crop and Livestock
Production at Full Development   . . . . . . . . . . .                54
Table 5       -  Prices for Farm Outputs and Inputs   . . . . . . . . .                 55
Table 6       -  Economic Benefit and Cost Streams . . . . . . . . . .                  56
Table 7       -  Farm Model (6 feds)-Income and Expenditure Flows   . .                 57
Table 8       -  Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                  58



Page No.
Graphic 21618:   Settler Houses and Satellite Villages . . . . . . .   59
Graphic 21619:   Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   60
Graphic 21620:   Project Unit-Organizational Chart . . . . . . . . .   61
ANNEX 2:  List of Documents in the Project File . . . . . . . . . . .    62
MAP OF THE PROJECT AREA                                        IBRD 15130



I



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Production and Trade
1.01      Agriculture continues to be the largest sector in the Egyptian
economy, contributing about 23% of the GNP. Agriculture employs about 40%
of the labor force and directly or indirectly is responsible for about 70% of
the country's annual non-oil export earnings. Real GDP growth has averaged
about 9.4% p.a. since 1975, but the growth of real GDP in agriculture has been
much lower, around 2.4% p.a. during the same period. The long-term trend of
real value added growth in the sector has been about 2.2% p.a., considerably
below the population growth rate. Also, because of the considerable weight of
agriculture in overall value added, this sluggish performance has had the
effect of slowing overall economic growth.
1.02      During the 1970's, shifts in the distribution of income within
the economy increased demand for certain agricultural products, while overall
population growth outstripped increases in agricultural output. These two
forces led to rapidly rising imports of agricultural commodities. Physical
quantities of imports increased as follows from 1973 to 1979--wheat and flour
by 170% and representing now about three-quarters of domestic consumption,
maize and sugar from negligible amounts to 20% and 36% of domestic consumption
respectively, dairy products by four-fold to about one-quarter of domestic
output on a whole milk equivalent basis, frozen meat from small quantities to
more than 150,000 tons (25% of domestic consumption), and vegetable oils by
120% to around 70% of domestic consumption. During the same period the value
of agricultural exports stagnated, leading to an increasing trade deficit in
agricultural commodities and contributing to the growing deficit in the
overall trade balance.
1.03      Egypt has under cultivation only about 0.15 feddan for each person
in the population. Although this land is intensively cropped and yields are
considerably above world averages, the boundaries of developed land place
severe limits on the growth of agricultural output. Moreover, the failure of
yields to exhibit any substantive growth over the past decade gives cause for
concern. A major reason underlying slow growth in productivity throughout the
sector is the problem of rising water tables resulting from the increase in
water supplies made available by the Aswan High Dam, combined with increasing
soil salinity in some areas. A very large drainage program is being implemented,
though it is running below the level needed to counteract the effects of
increased water supplies.
1.04      Superimposed upon the widespread drainage problem are shortcomings
in the institutional structure and overall policy framework in agriculture.
In the first place, the agricultural research system has been less successful
in recent years than in the fifties and sixties in generating a stream of



-2-
profitable innovations for increasing the productivity of the farming system.
In the second place, the extension service, the key vehicle for conveying
such research results as are available, has not provided the dynamic leader-
ship which might have induced farmers to make changes. Linkages between
research and extension, and between extension and farmers are totally in-
adequate.  The village cooperatives and the agricultural credit system are
badly in need of a reconstruction process which is just beginning. The
Government's policy of maintaining low producer prices for many commodities
has encouraged farmers, wherever possible, to switch to alternative crops
with uncontrolled prices while price and supply controls on inputs have led to
diversion of resources from their intended uses and to lowered yields. An
overall result of policy interventions has been a substantial net taxation of
agriculture which has left very little surplus in the sector for private
investment. In addition, public investment in the sector, as a proportion of
public investment for the whole economy, has fallen drastically from about
25% in the early 1960's during construction of the Aswan High Dam to only
about 8% today. During the 1960's and early 1970's a considerable proportion
of public investment in agriculture went into reclamation of new lands.
Increases in agricultural production resulting from this investment have been
disappointing, and the new lands are, even today, being used very inefficiently.
Because of the time it takes for new land to come into full production, the
balance between investments in old lands and investments in new lands has a
critical effect on agricultural growth rates, as does management of invest-
ments which are made in new lands.
Government Plans for Agricultural Investment
1.05      In the Five Year Plan for 1978-1982 the total public sector invest-
ment allocated for agriculture was about LE 879 million, or 8.6% of total
public sector investment for the economy. The largest sum was set aside for
drainage, LE 272 million or 31% of agricultural sector investments. Approx-
imately LE 247 million, or 28% of agricultural sector investment, was allo-
cated to the land reclamation program. Only LE 127 million, or 14% of
agricultural sector investment, was set aside for "vertical" development
(other than drainage), i.e., for investment in the main body of the "old
lands" farming sector. Fisheries development would receive just over LE 56
million, or 6% of agricultural sector investment. The remaining LE 176
million, or 20% of total investment, was allocated to various new irrigation
projects, including the Jongli Canal in Sudan, the Toshka Canal out of Lake
Nasser, and to the rehabilitation and completion of several irrigation schemes.
The goal for the agricultural sector as a whole in the Plan was for an expansion
of production by 28% over the five-year period, or an average of 5.1% per
annum.
1.06      In the rolling Five Year Plan for 1980-1984, the share of invest-
ment allocated for agriculture has been increased significantly, to 12% of
a total planned investment of about LE 20 billion, with an additional 6% of
total investment allocated for fertilizer plants, and for agricultural storage
and processing facilities.  A growth target of 3.2% p.a. has been set for
agriculture. Since this is well below growth targets for other sectors, the
contribution of agriculture to GDP would fall from 24% in 1980 to 18% by 1984.
The planned investments are still heavily oriented towards the drainage and
land reclamation programs.



-3-
New Lands Development
1.07      Since the early 1950s, approximately 1.1 million feddans of land
have been reclaimed in Egypt, but less than 60% of this land is actually under
cultivation and possibly as little as 35% is being cultivated with profit.
The remaining reclaimed land under cultivation results in losses to the State
because production is insufficiently high to cover costs and there is a
pattern of subsidization, particularly through the operations of para-statal
companies managing the land. The land reclamation sector has experienced a
very large number of changes, both in administration and policy, during the
past two decades. The most important of these changes concern the organiza-
tions responsible at the national level for implementing land reclamation, the
balance and coordination between reclamation and cultivation phases, and the
management of farming in the lands under cultivation.
1.08      At one time or another, the implementation of land reclamation
has been the responsibility of four different Ministries or combinations of
Ministries, which have been reorganized numerous times, the latest being in
May 1980 when the autonomous Ministry of Land Reclamation, re-established in
1978, was combined with the Ministry of Housing. The frequent organizational
changes over the years have resulted in varying degrees of confusion about
policy, and have slowed down the implementation process by leading to
indecision at various levels. In spite of the numerous changes, a core of
experienced personnel and organizations within the national Ministries has
more or less maintained its identity and supplied some continuity to the
reclamation process.
1.09      A rather high proportion of reclaimed lands remains uncultivated.
There are several reasons for this, including inadequate soil studies
made before reclamation began, reclamation work never adequately finished,
breakdowns in irrigation pumping systems, failure to provide adequate drainage
systems in most reclaimed areas, and a shortage of funds, particularly during
the 1967/1975 period, which led to operations being suspended in many areas.
1.10      In the first phases of the big reclamation push, the new lands
were distributed to settlers in small units of 3-5 feddans, with rather
elaborate attention paid to the settlement process itself. By and large,
settlement by small holders has proven to result in much more intensive and
*        efficient use of the new lands, and higher levels of productivity, than
achieved under other methods of management. Before this became evident,
however, it was decided to leave rather large reclaimed areas under the con-
trol of state companies which have farmed the land ever since, usually with
losses or with meagre financial profit. These have become large mechanized
operations with overgrown management structures and low crop productivity. In
the past 3-4 years, a movement towards settlement has once again developed
momentum, and several different forms of distribution have been tried, includ-
ing leasehold rather than freehold to small farmers, distribution of larger
units (in the range from 15 to 30 feddans) to graduates, and sales to coopera-
tives which distributed to members in 10 feddan blocks. In some areas,
particularly to the east of the Delta, land has been sold to cooperatives
without any reclamation work being done by the State, in an attempt to mobilize



- 4 -
private capital to get the job done. Some return to the system of State
reclamation, followed by distribution to small settlers, is once again in
evidence, although increased attention is also being given to joint venture
companies with foreign participation.
Government Plans for Land Reclamation
1.11      In the Five Year Plan for 1980-1984, as much as one quarter of the
investment envisaged in the agricultural sector is planned for land reclama-
tion. The plan allows for the reclamation of about 895,000 feddans, located
as follows:
Area (feddans)        %
East of the Delta            363,000            41
Central Delta                102,000            11
West of the Delta            190,000            21
Upper Egypt                  178,000            20
New Valley                    62,000             7
Total                  895,000            100
In a longer term projection, it is planned that a further 1.28 million
feddans would be reclaimed in the period of the Five Year Plan from 1985
to 1989, with a grand total of 2.8 million feddans by the late 1990's.  Such
a program would require a huge investment effort, of the order of LE 3 billion
(in 1980 prices) for irrigation development alone, without including infra-
structural costs or the massive investments needed for two major canals in the
East of the Delta. It would also require very large amounts of additional
water for irrigation, some of which is foreseen as coming from recapture of
drainage water currently lost to the Nile system, and the rest from increased
flows in the Nile as a result of construction work already under way in Sudan
under joint projects between the two Governments. In spite of the scale of
the investments required, the Government of Egypt is giving high priority to
the land reclamation program because of its concern to drive towards a higher
degree of self-sufficiency in food production, and to provide employment for
larger numbers of persons in rural areas outside the already overcrowded old
lands villages.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.12      The Bank's policy in the agricultural sector has been to encourage
Government to maintain and to increase production levels in the old lands,
and particularly to support the drainage program in lower and upper Egypt to
prevent a decline in land productivity on account of rising water tables.
This has been financed through a series of four drainage projects covering



- 5 -
2.8 million feddans of the irrigated area. 1/ The first two have suffered from
lengthy delays in the past but all of them are now progressing satisfactorily.
The Bank has also supported a pilot attempt to increase productivity in two
Governorates with the Agricultural Development Project (Credit 830-EGT of
1978). This involved strengthening those parts of the Ministry of Agriculture
dealing with agricultural banking, extension and cooperatives and providing
tractors, implements and pumps to increase the level of farm mechanization.
It is too early yet to assess the likely impact of this project; implementation
is behind schedule. A major problem is that legislation to amend the status
of cooperatives is held up in Parliament. The Bank has also approved two
agroindustry loans; the first (Fruit and Vegetables Loan 1276-EGT) of US$50 mil-
lion to Bank Misr to finance a seed farm and associated activities as well
as to provide credit to processors and exporters of fruits and vegetables; the
second (Agroindustries, Credit 988-EGT) of US$45 million to three participating
banks to finance small and medium size agroindustries and to the Governorates
of Cairo and Alexandria to finance the replacement of the municipal slaughter-
houses. In addition to these projects, IFC has also approved two agricultural
investments in Egypt, one to participate in a sugar beet project based on the
rehabilitation of 50,000 feddans in the northern Delta, the other to help
finance a fish farm near Ismailia. A third investment, to help develop about
4,000 feddans of desert land near Ismailia through large-scale, capital
intensive methods, is under consideration.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General Features
2.01      The West Nubariya area is located west of the Nile Delta, adjacent
to the Maryut Company Farm. The northwestern border lies close to the
Alexandria to Mersa-Matrouh road while the southern border runs along the
Nasr Canal, partially constructed. Access to the area is from the Cairo to
Alexandria desert road, either directly or through the Maryut Company Farm, or
from the Mersa-Matrouh to Alexandria road. The distance from Alexandria is
about 60 km and from Cairo 160 km. Under the present administrative division
the area belongs to three Governorates, Alexandria, Beheira and Mersa Matrouh.
2.02      The bulk of the area lies in a horseshoe shaped basin between two
limestone ridges, the land tilting gently from SW to NE with contours varying
from 52.5 m to 25.0 m. The topography is generally flat with slopes usually
less than 1%. A series of ridges and troughs run across the area.
2.03      The aquifer system comprises an impermeable basement of marine
clays over which lie two zones, the lower of high permeability and the upper
of low permeability. Because the area is surrounded by impervious or low
1/   Credit 181-EGT of 1970, Credit 393-EGT of 1973, Credit/Loan 637-1285-EGT
of 1976, and Credit/Loans 719-1439-1440-EGT of 1977.



permeability restrictions it can be considered as a groundwater basin retain-
ing any water which flows into it. Therefore, it is expected that after
a period of time water lost by deep percolation will cause the water table to
rise. Hence, the need to provide artificial drainage if the area is to be
reclaimed for agriculture.
Climate
2.04      The climate of the West Nubariya area is semi-arid with a mean
annual rainfall varying from 136 mm at El Ameriya to the north to 35 mm at
South Tahrir to the south. The main rainy season is November-February, but
even then, the rainfall is localized and unpredictable. The mean monthly
maximum temperature is 32.2  C with an absolute maximum of 41  C.  The mean
monthly minimum temperature is 7.50 C with an absolute minimum of 3.90 C.  The
area in general is exposed to high winds, in particular during the months of
April-May when strong, dry and dusty winds known as "Khamsin" blow from the SW.
During the summer, the winds are mainly from the north. The climatic
conditions of the region favor the growth of a variety of high value crops.
Land Resources
2.05      The soils where the proposed project is located consist of fine-
textured geological deposits. They are mostly deep, with no layer likely to
seriously impede rooting or water movement within 2 m of the surface, medium
textured and highly calcareous.
2.06      High concentrations of soil salinity prevail in most of the area
with a high proportion of sodium in some of the area, but the soils are
generally leachable of salts (including boron) and drainable, as shown by
field tests of water intake rates and subsoil permeability. There is no cur-
rent evidence of the occurrence of sodicity in soils of the nearby reclaimed
areas, where calcium and magnesium ions predominate on the exchange complex.
2.07      A soil survey and land classification carried out in the area
selected for reclamation showed the following land categories:
Land Category                                 Percent
-    Slope less than 0.5%.  Slight
or no non-correctable deficiencies ........ 60%
-    Slope greater than 0.5%.  No non-
correctable deficiencies  .................  20%
-    Slope greater than 0.5%.  Slight non-
corretable deficiencies ...................  10%
-    Slope less than 0.5%.  Moderate non-
correctable deficiencies .....     .............  10%



- 7 -
In certain cases where surface soils are sodic and non-gypsiferous, the need
might arise to add gypsum or to apply deep plowing for bringing gypsum to the
surface. Details on soil survey and land classification are given in the
Project File (Document A-1)
Water Resources
2.08      For the irrigation of the project area Nile water would be extracted
from the Nasr Canal which has its intake on the Nubariya Canal. The Nubariya
Canal receives currently 12.5 million m3/day of water, of which 11 million
m3/day comes from the canal Riyah el Behera and 1.5 million m3/day from the
canal Riyah-el-Nassiri. Both these canals originate at the Delta Barrage near
Cairo. In view of the increasing demand for water in the area served by
the Nubariya Canal, the Ministry of Irrigation is taking action to increase
the amount of water diverted to the Nubariya Canal from 12.5 million m3/day to
15 million m3/day and at a later stage to 22.5 million m3/day. To allow this,
works are underway for the enlargement of the canal Riyah-el-Nassiri. These
works are expected to be completed by the end of 1982. The Nubariya Canal
does not need any enlargement, its section being sufficient to carry the
planned future discharge of 22.5 million m3/day.
2.09      The Nasr Canal was designed to have a capacity of 118 m3/sec (10.2
million m3/day) which would irrigate an area of about 270,000 feddans (gross).
The areas that have been committed at present to be irrigated from the Nasr
Canal, including the present project, total about 218,000 feddans (gross).
Adjacent Land Reclamation Projects
2.10      The proposed project area is an extension of land reclamation
which has been going on in the immediately adjacent areas for over twenty
years. The earliest block, called North Tahrir, where reclamation began in
1958/59, currently has some 32,000 feddans under cultivation. Only a small
portion of this scheme has been distributed to settlers, with the majority
being run as a large State farm growing grapes, citrus and breeding cattle.
Reclamation began in 1963/64 in the next two projects, Maryut and El Nahda,
and a total of some 62,000 feddans is currently under cultivation. In El
Nahda distribution to settlers was carried further than in most other proj-
ects, with about 12,000 feddans allocated to small farmers, 6,500 feddans to
graduates and 1,500 feddans to a special farm set up with assistance from West
Germany, specializing in breeding Friesian cows. In Maryut some 5,000-6,000
feddans have been distributed to small farmers with the remaining area still
being administered as a State farm. The other major project irrigated from
the Nasr Canal is the Mechanized Farm, where reclamation of a gross area of
38,000 feddans was commenced in 1967, with assistance from the U.S.S.R. The
farm was soon split into three parts, with 10,000 feddans being cultivated as
a State farm retaining the original name, 5,000 feddans under the same State
company but in a separate location, and 23,000 feddans placed under the admin-
istration of the para-statal Nubariya Seed Production Company, of which some



- 8 -
16,000 feddans are under cultivation. The complete rehabilitation of 10,000
feddans of the Mechanized Farm in combination with settlement of small holders
is the subject of a project under consideration for IFAD financing. The Bank
has provided assistance to the Nubariya Seed Production Company under its
Fruit and Vegetables Development Project (Loan 1276-EGT of 1976). In addition
the Bank is considering the financing of a fish farming project under which
fish farm facilities will be established in an area of 3,200 feddan of the
Maryut Lake.
2.11      All of the above projects, with a gross area of around 162,000
feddans of which some 113,000 feddans are under cultivation, draw water
through subsidiary canals from the main Nubariya Canal. In addition, an
extension to the Maryut area has reclaimed some 15,000 feddans of a gross area
of 40,000 feddans. Because of the shape of the underlying hydrogeological
formations, and because few drainage works were undertaken as part of reclama-
tion, water tables rose very rapidly in the entire region, and considerable
areas now suffer from moderate to severe water logging, with salinity problems
also evident in some parts. A regional main drain alongside the Nubariya
canal is being constructed with Bank financing under the Fruit and Vegetables
Development Project, and in 1981 the first stage of providing underground
drainage networks is planned to begin in the area. In spite of the drainage
limitation, settlement programs in El Nahda and Maryut have been successful.
Productivity on the land distributed to settlers is generally higher than
achievements on the State farms which are still barely breaking even in their
operations, partly as a result of inadequate management. The major crops
grown in the region are berseem (clover), grapes, alfalfa, wheat, groundnuts,
maize, barley, sunflower and vegetables (with watermelon predominating), and
there is considerable livestock production.
Population in the Project Region and Area
2.12      In the lands of the Maryut farms, which comprise the immediate
neighbourhood of the proposed new project, there are 25 villages and hamlets
sustaining a population of around 16,500 persons, of whom 8,300 are under 16
years of age and 6,300 under 6 years of age. Under daily labor contracts, in
the years 1976-1978, from 680,000 to 750,000 man-days per year of casual labor
were provided from various other areas of Egypt to work on Maryut farm. The
nearest medium-sized town is the servicing center of El Ameriya, on the
north-eastern corner of the Maryut farm, with a population of between 10,000
and 15,000 persons. A plan is well advanced for the construction of New
Ameriya city, immediately to the north of the proposed project. It is
envisaged that this new city would have a population of 150,000 by 1990 and
500,000 by the turn of the century. It is inevitable that strong and close
links would develop between this new city and the proposed project area. The
latter would be in an optimum position to supply the new city with food,
particularly vegetables and livestock products, and there would be further
interactions through the labor markets, and in the provision of social services.
2.13      In the project area itself, the only residents are some Bedouin families.
Traditionally they have obtained from the desert lands some very limited
amounts of grazing for their livestock, and have sown barley crops to take



- 9 -
advantage of the sporadic winter rains. In most years the grain production
from these scattered areas of barley is negligible, and it provides merely a
small addition to livestock grazing. In the past decade the majority of the
Bedouin, perhaps up to 200 families, have set up their residence along the
Maryut State farm canal near the eastern edge of the project area, using the
regular supply of water from the canal and grazing some livestock within the
borders of the State farm. According to a recent survey conducted by the
Ministry of Land Reclamation the areas from which most of the Bedouin now draw
their livelihood are outside the boundaries of the proposed project.
Agricultural Research, Extension and Veterinary Services
2.14      Research, Extension and Veterinary Services in Egypt are mainly
supplied by the Ministry of Agriculture. However, under Presidential Decree
No. 264, 1978, the Ministry of Land Reclamation assumed much of the responsi-
bility for supplying these services to producers on New Lands. In practice,
research facilities are operated by the Ministry of Agriculture, while
extension services are operated mainly by the Ministry of Land Reclamation
but in some areas by the Ministry of Agriculture. Veterinary services are
supplied to smallholders by the Ministry of Agriculture and to most larger
companies by the Ministry of Land Reclamation. The decree calls for the
assumption of control of all services by the Ministry of Agriculture once a
"marginal" production stage has been reached. However, where this stage has
been reached, the implementation of the decree was not strict and in some
cases, as in the land reclamation area of Abbis, the responsibility has been
divided geographically between the two Ministries.
2.15      The main research facility in the project area is the Nubariya
Research Station under the Ministry of Agriculture, located on the Desert
Road, 45 km from Alexandria. The station, like all other agricultural
stations, is under control of the Director of Research in Cairo and programs
are largely designed and administered by the Research Institute of the
Ministry of Agriculture in Cairo. Thirty eight researchers carry ,out work on
the station on the agronomy of maize, fodder crops, legumes, sugar beet and
onions. Staff are largely inexperienced and links to extension services are
weak. Two livestock research stations are in the area; Montaza station,
working on poultry and some rabbit crossing and Burg-El-Arab, working mainly
on goat production with some sheep and poultry investigation. Universities
also carry out research. The University of Alexandria has a research farm at
Abbis. University staff have good academic qualifications for agricultural
research but generally do not have the time or motivation for effective
applied research.
2.16      The Ministry of Land Reclamation is responsible for the Maryut
Center, an organization with about 300 staff and residential facilities for
training of technicians and farmers and investigation of technical, social and
economic aspects of new land development. In spite of UNDP support, the
Center does not have clear objectives or links to real development problems.
Staff are largely inexperienced. However, courses such as training of women
for community development work are relatively successful. A Communica-
tions Center funded by the West German Government and under the Ministry of



- 10 -
Agriculture has organized 35 farmer discussion groups in the Nahda area
with the assistance of Government extensionists. Apart from this effort,
extension services to small holders are generally not effective in increasing
farmers incomes. Veterinary services in the project area are the respon-
sibility of the Alexandria Veterinary Office. One veterinary clinic to
10-15,000 animals is maintained but farm visits are infrequent. Except for
the Communications Center, the effectiveness of facilities for research,
extension, and veterinary services are weak under both Ministry of Agriculture
and Land Reclamation jurisdictions.
Agricultural Cooperative System
2.17      In the new lands, the Ministry of Land Reclamation, through its
Cooperative and Social Sections, is responsible for the organization and
supervision of cooperatives. The office of the Ministry at Abbis supervises
the cooperatives in the area in which the proposed project is located.
2.18      New land cooperatives serve both smallholders and graduates.  A
typical smallholder cooperative has 300-400 members covering about 1,500
feddans. It has a supervisor and a field assistant, storekeeper, accountant,
and 2-3 tractor drivers on its staff. The cooperative distributes quotas of
subsidized fertilizer, some seed and some pesticides. It debits these inputs
against the value of that proportion of produce which must be sold by the
farmer through the cooperatives. It also collects installments on land
payment and provides some tractor services. In this way, cooperatives in new
lands function as both a merchant and a bank, although in practice they are
more instruments of Government policy regarding input supply and crop procure-
ment than voluntary associations of farmers. A new law was passed recently
allowing more flexibility in cooperatives and emphasizing the voluntary mutual
benefits for members from cooperative dealings.
Agricultural Credit
2.19      Provision of credit to agriculture in the region is dominated by
the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), through
its affiliated Banks for Development and Agricultural Credit (BDAC) in
Alexandria and Damanhour and their network of branches and agencies in the
Governorates of Alexandria and Beheira respectively. Throughout Egypt, the
PBDAC has 17 affiliated BDACs, and about 5,200 branches and agencies. With
assets of LE 270 million, the PBDAC is lending each year about LE 170 million,
the overwhelming proportion of which is in short term production loans to
farmers for seasonal cropping inputs. Medium and long-term lending is
in the vicinity of LE 6 million per annum. The old lands areas of Egypt have
a complete coverage by the BDAC's, and in the reclaimed lands new branches
are established when the level of banking activity justifies it.
2.20      Lending conditions include interest rates of 6%-12.5% on medium- and
long-term loans, and downpayments of 10%-20% of capital costs for investment
loans. Interest rates on medium-term loans for livestock production are the
lowest (6%) while for farm machinery and agroindustries are somewhat higher
(8% and 11% respectively). For all other medium-term loans and for long-term



- 11 -
loans interest rates are 12.5%. Medium-term loans are for 3-10 years and
long-term loans for periods greater than 10 years. The BDAC's usually require
the security of "real property", viz mortgages over land and buildings, and
liens on machinery. In addition they have traditionally insisted upon the
establishment of strong "cooperatives" which farmers were required to join.
2.21      The proposed project area would come under the jurisdiction of the
Alexandria BDAC. The nearest branch at the moment is in the town of Ameriya,
some 35 Km from the center of the project.
Marketing
2.22      With the exception of beans, all of the major crops expected to
be produced in the project area are free from Government procurement quotas.
For many of them, however, the prices received are still influenced, in
varying degree, by their method of sale, by Government announcement of its
own purchase prices through the cooperative in each village, or by regulation
of the administration of marketing, such as in the vegetable wholesale markets.
2.23      Wheat and maize are the two major staple cereal crops of Egypt.
Domestic production is about 1.9 million metric tons and 3 million metric
tons respectively. For both, domestic production is supplemented heavily by
imports. About 7 million tons of wheat are consumed each year in Egypt, of
which more than 5 million tons are imported. Annual consumption of maize is
in the region of 3.8 million tons, of which more than 0.7 million tons are
imported.
2.24      Beans are still subject to a procurement quota of up to 0.39 metric
tons per feddan, depending on the region. This represents as much as 40% of
the average farmer's production. About 240,000 tons of fava beans are produced
annually in Egypt, and a further 20-30,000 tons are imported at prices signifi-
cantly above those received by farmers. The quota quantities must be delivered
to the local cooperative, from which the farmer receives an advance, with the
balance payable when accounts for short term credit from the local bank have
been settled.
2.25      Sugar beet has not been produced in commercial quantities before
in Egypt, although there is an old and well-established sugar industry in
Upper Egypt based on cane. More than 35% of the approximately 1 million tons
of sugar consumed annually in Egypt is now imported. Cane production has
levelled off at around 8.3 million tons, about 70% of which is processed in
Government mills. Farmers have recently been receiving prices up to equivalent
international levels which have been at a cyclical low in the past three
years. A first beet processing plant is under construction in the middle
Delta area, with IFC participation. It is planned that it will process
around 716,000 tons of beet annually by 1989, and produce just over 100,000
tons of refined sugar each year. This plant is about 150 km from the proposed
project area. Sugar beet is also an important source of livestock feed
through the top leaves and the pulp by-product which is usually dried and sold
back to farmers, sometimes mixed with molasses.



- 12 -
2.26      Egypt is also a heavy importer of staple vegetable oils, since
domestic production - mainly of cottonseed and soybeans - supplies only
30% of local needs. Only about 12,000 feddans of sunflowers are grown at
the present time, a significant proportion of which is in the reclaimed lands.
Production of sunflower seeds was as high as 13,000 tons in 1976 but has fallen
to about 8,000 tons today.  There are no specialized processing plants for
extraction of sunflower oil, but some plants used for extraction from other
oil seeds are being adapted to extract from sunflower.
2.27      The production of potatoes has doubled in Egypt in the past ten
years, from around 500,000 tons to close to 1 million tons. The summer crop,
which is based on seed potatoes imported from Europe, provides around one half
of the output, including most of the potatoes for export, whose quantities
have ranged from 100,000 to 166,000 tons in recent years. The export outlook
is promising for off-season shipments reaching Europe in early spring. Two
well-established organizations are associated with major aspects of the
potato trade. The Potato Growers Cooperative (PGC), which is an association
of producer cooperatives, provides seed, storage, grading and other marketing
services on a fee basis to its members. Under Loan 1276-EGT, the Bank is
providing financing for two 6,000 ton cold stores which are under construction
in Alexandria and Damanhour. The Nile Company (Ministry of Commerce) has
main responsibility for export of potatoes, which it procures under contracts
with producer cooperatives. Under Loan 1276-EGT the Bank is also assisting
this company to expand its storage and packing facilities for potatoes. The
bulk of the potatoes produced in Egypt, of course, are still consumed within
the country. About 13% of national output is sold through the wholesale
markets of Cairo and Alexandria, both of which are to be the subject of
studies financed under the recently approved IDA credit (988-EGT) for agro-
industries.
2.28      Onion is Egypt's fourth most important export crop, and Egypt
has been the world's largest exporter of onion. In 1972, fresh onion exports
reached a record 105,000 tons. Most exports were in the form of fresh bulbs,
but the proportion being sent in dehydrated form has been increasing. The
main source of exports has been the winter crop grown in Upper and Middle
Egypt, but disease attacks, encouraged by inadequate drainage, have caused
declining yields in recent years with the result that exports have been
around 10% of a national crop of 6-700,000 tons. There is considerable
potential, with onion exports, for regaining lost ground in European markets
and for expanding trade in other Middle Eastern countries.
2.29      Expansion of the export trade for vegetable crops other than potato
and onion is limited more by the development of packaging, processing and
marketing expertise than by constraints on the production side.  Egypt is
well placed climatically and geographically to exploit the potential for
off-season and specialty crops, but the success of these depends heavily
or skilled management in marketing. Vegetable production (and domestic
co sumption) has grown steadily, and reached 7.7 million tons in 1978 (not
including onions, which are regarded as a field crop). During the 1970's
up to 1978, total vegetable production expanded by 50%, well over twice the
rate of growth of population. During the next decade the demand is likely to
increase by over 50% again. In terms of area, the most important vegetable
crops are tomato, water melon (and other melons), squash, cucumber, cabbage,



- 13 -
eggplant, haricot beans and peppers, which together account for 83% of the
vegetable area. In the region of the project, a number of vegetables are
being grown, and farmers usually hire private operators who run small pickup
trucks which carry the vegetables to markets in Alexandria, frequently
to the wholesale market, mentioned above, whose annual throughput is more
than 255,000 tons. The proposed project is very well placed to deliver
vegetables to Alexandria and even better placed with respect to the proposed
New Ameriya city which will be immediately adjacent to the north.
2.30      The volume of fresh milk which enters commercial channels in Egypt
is upwards of 900,000 tons per annum, of which more than 50,000 tons is
handled by the Misr Milk and Food Company (MMFC) which dominates the "organized"
sector, the balance being marketed mainly by small pedlars, merchants and pro-
cessors (more than one half of milk produced is made into cheese by artisanal
manufacturers). In addition to the fresh trade, the MMFC each year handles
150,000 tons of milk equivalent in imported dairy products, chiefly skim milk
powder and anhydrous milk fat which are recombined to make pasteurized milk.
The MMFC's SICLAM plant in Alexandria, with a capacity for processing 100 tons
of milk per day, is planned in 1980 to manufacture about 20,000 tons of
pasteurized milk, 2,400 tons white cheese, 1,300 tons processed and hard
cheese, and 600 tons yoghurt. The Company will collect around 7,000 tons of
fresh milk from areas close to Alexandria including the reclaimed lands in El
Nahda, Mariut and North Tahrir, with farmgate prices varying upwards from 10.5
piastres (PT) per litre, depending on fat content, quality, and distance from
the plant. An expansion of the Alexandria plant is underway, with assistance
from the Dutch Government and FAO, which should double its capacity within 3-4
years, in 3 phases. In the retail market there are various kinds of milk
available with a wide range of prices. Reconstituted pasteurized milk (3%
fat) sells at the Government fixed price of 10 PT/litre, pasteurized fresh
milk (3.5% fat) at 20 PT/litre, fresh milk from private merchants (fat per-
centage variable, but generally greater than 3.5%) at 25-30 PT/litre, and
imported UHT milk (1% - 3% fat) from 35-70 PT/litre.
2.31      Domestic producer prices for meat are supported at levels somewhat
greater than their international equivalent by import rationing. Total
domestic availability of meat (including poultry) possibly increased by
as much as 60% during the 1970's, to reach more than 600,000 tons, with about
70% of the increase coming from imports and 30% from domestic production.
In Alexandria, the slaughterhouse operated by the Governorate, which currently
handles about 100,000 animals per year, is to be replaced with IDA financial
assistance under the recently approved agroindustries project, and will be
moved to a site near the town of Ameriya, a convenient location with respect
to the proposed project area.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Concept
3.01      The suggestion for Bank involvement in a land reclamation project
arose out of a general agricultural sector reconnaissance mission carried
out in October/November, 1977.  In April 1978, a Bank/FAO-CP mission visited



- 14 -
Egypt, and following a review of various possible areas in both Upper and
Lower Egypt, identified a project in West Nubariya for new land development
combined with settlement of small farmers. From the beginning, the concept
of settlement in small units was introduced, thoroughly discussed and agreed
with Government. The area selected is part of a larger tract of desert land
formerly included in a 1971 Master Plan for reclamation of a gross area of
some 270,000 feddans, based on the Nasr Canal and its proposed future exten-
sions.
3.02      With financial assistance from the Overseas Development Administration
(ODA) of the UK, the Egyptian Government contracted with a team of consultants
for detailed feasibility studies with the objective of identifying a net area
of about 100,000 feddans suitable for producing sugarbeet for a proposed new
sugarbeet factory, to be built in the area. A prefeasibility study was
completed in January 1979, and a decision taken to proceed with the full
feasibility study, following discussions between Government, the Bank, ODA and
the consultant. The final report was presented in August, 1979. Important
design decisions reached within these studies included: (a) separation of the
gross area into two zones, suited, respectively, for smaliholder development
and for joint venture estate farms; (b) choice of surface irrigation of the
basin type as being appropriate for smallholders; (c) selection of a holding
size of six feddans; and (d) estimation, on the basis of soil surveys, of the
net area capable of being successfully irrigated. In addition, a full two
years of trials with sugar beet supported the recommendation that this could
be a successful crop in the region.
3.03      A Bank preappraisal mission in September, 1979 participated with
Government and all interested parties in a review of the feasibility study.
The latter report had outlined a very large "package" project which included
smallholder settlement, estate farms and processing facilities. The review
meeting decided that the whole package was too large to be considered as
one project, and it was agreed that the Bank would consider for financing only
the smallholder settlement component, leaving estate farms and processing
plants to be negotiated by Government, if it desired, with private joint
venture concerns. At appraisal, the decision was made that even the small
holder component should be executed in two phases, in order that the implement-
ing agency should be able to deal thoroughly with the many complex organiza-
tional and technical problems involved, and make a success of settling the
large number of smallholders with their families, while incorporating the
various new approaches (management and technical) proposed for the project.
The project is designed to be viable without the construction of a sugar beet
factory in the area. However, depending upon further studies, sugar beet may
be a profitable crop in the area and if a sugar factory is constructed, project
settlers are expected to become major beet suppliers.
Project Objectives
3.04      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to increase agricultural production in order to reduce the
dependence of Egypt on food imports, and to save foreign
exchange;



- 15 -
(b)  to improve income distribution and generate employment by
settlement of smallholders selected from among the rural
population of other, overpopulated areas of the country; and
(c)  to initiate a process of restructuring and strengthening of
agricultural institutions in the reclaimed lands which would
have demonstration effects and would become the basis for
policy improvements in the new lands.
3.05      The project fits well with Government's stated high-priority goals
of increasing food self-sufficiency, relieving pressure on the traditional
villages in the old lands, and using surplus Nile water to expand the irrigated
agricultural base of the country.
Project Description
3.06      The project would consist of the following main complementary compo-
nents:
(a)  construction of irrigation and drainage works by which an area of
24,000 feddans (net) of desert land would be reclaimed for intensive
agriculture;
(b)  settlement of 4,000 smallholders in 20 villages (4 main villages and
16 satellite villages) with provision of infrastructure (roads,
domestic water supply, electrification and telecommunications),
social services (schools, health and community development facili-
ties) production and administration facilities (offices, workshops,
veterinary clinic, milk collecting centers, etc.) and housing
for the smallholders and for the project staff;
(c)  provision of farm machinery, maintenance equipment, vehicles and
machinery repair facilities;
(d)  provision of consultant services for design and supervision of
construction, research and extension, managerial support and other
services;
(e)  provision of short-term fellowships to project staff;
(f)  provision of financial support to farmers including credits for
purchase of livestock and for cropping expenses and compensation
of bedouin living in the project area.
3.07      In addition, the project would include a bilharzia component to con-
solidate the results already achieved in Middle and Upper Egypt, and to expand
the control program in the area of Giza Governorate and in the project area.
Irrigation
3.08      Availability of Water.  Nile water for the irrigation of the project
area will be extracted from the Nasr Canal. The first 27 kilometers of the



- 16 -
canal were constructed in 1971. Part of the lining of this stretch, particu-
larly the first kilometer between the intake from the Nubariya Canal and
pumping station 1, and four kilometers between pumping station 1 and pumping
station 2, has suffered serious deterioration. The concrete lining has
disintegrated due to deficiencies in construction and has subsequently been
removed leaving the ground forming the banks exposed to erosion.  This
stretch of the canal needs complete rehabilitation. Other parts of the lining
of the canal are less seriously damaged and could be repaired.
3.09      Works are currently underway with Government's own resources for the
extension of the Nasr Canal from kilometers 27 to 55 (pumping station 5). New
specifications to avoid failures experienced in the past are being applied in
the construction of this section which includes compaction of the banks, use
in the deep cut sections of draining material and vertical pipes with non-
return valves to relieve pressure underneath the concrete lining, use of
sealing material of improved quality and lining of the canal with mechanical
means. Earth works are expected to be completed by December 1980 and the
lining by end 1982.
3.10      There will be five successive pumping stations in the Nasr Canal
of which the first three are operating and the remaining two are under construc-
tion with Government's funds. All pump units are electrical and operate with
11 KV tension. Power to the stations is provided from the Tahrir Substation
through electrical transmission lines of 66 KV. Transformers 66/11 KV are
installed in each pumping station. Civil works for the remaining two pumping
stations will be completed by June 1981 and the installation of pumps will be
completed by the end of 1982.
3.11      Thus, in order for Nile water to reach the project the following
works have to be done:
(a) Enlargement of the canal Riyah-el-Nassiri from km 20 to km 73
to increase its capacity from 3.5 to 8.5 million m3/day (work
underway, see para 2.08);
(b) Reconstruction of the lining of the Nasr Canal on about 5 km and
repair of the remaining lined part to km 27;
(c) Extension of the Nasr Canal to km 55 (work underway);
(d) Completion of the pumping stations 4 and 5 (work underway);
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all the above works will be
completed before December 31, 1983.
3.12      For the reconstruction and repair of the Nasr Canal to km 27 funds
have been allocated under the Fruit and Vegetables Development Project (Loan
1276-EGT). Government invited bids for the repair of this section of the
canal on August 30, 1980. Because the repair of the Nasr Canal is vital for
the proposed project, the award of these works will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.



- 17 -
3.13      The extension of the Nasr Canal from km 55 to km 67 will be included
in the project works. This extension is required for the irrigation of about
13,000 feddans, net, located in the western part of the project area. In
order to allow for future extension of the irrigated area, the canal will be
designed with a greater capacity than that required for the present project.
Avoidance of future interruption of the irrigation regime in the project area
and the small length of the canal involved would justify this investment in
incremental canal capacity. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
extension of Nasr Canal to km 67 will be completed before December 31, 1983.
3.14      Crop Water Requirements.  Water requirements have been calculated by
using the Blaney and Criddle method, as modified by FAO. Because of the low
rainfall in the area it was assumed that all crop water requirements have to
be met by irrigation. An overall irrigation efficiency of 0.60 (conveyance
efficiency 0.93 and field irrigation efficiency 0.65) was assumed. The annual
water demand is about 9,300 m3 per feddan. The peak demand occurs in July and
it is 1,530 m3/feddan. Based on the above figures, the total volume of water
required for the irrigation of the 24,000 net feddans of the project area will
be 223 million m3 while the daily peak demand will be 1.18 million m3 (13.5
m3/sec) which represents 11.4 percent of the designed full capacity of the
Nasr Canal. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government will
supply the project area with adequate amounts of water for obtaining optimum
yields from the selected cropping pattern.
3.15      A primary leaching is required to reduce the high initial levels of
soil salinity to tolerable levels for plant growth. Field trials showed that
an application of 1.00 m of water should reduce the salinity to tolerable
levels throughout the project area. This amount of water represents less than
half the annual amount required for irrigation. Deep percolation, assumed to
be 20% of total water application, would adequately cover any annual leaching
requirement.
3.16      Method of Irrigation.  Basin irrigation will be applied in the
project area. Farmers in Egypt are very familiar with this method of irriga-
tion which in addition presents other advantages such as possibility for
applying water 24 hours during the day, easy leaching of excess of salts and,
if the size of basins is adequate, reduction of time the farmers would spend
for the application of water. Basins will have their long side parallel to
the contours with a small longitudinal slope to facilitate the flow of water
and to improve the uniformity of irrigation. Some crops (potato, vegetables)
are less adaptable to the basin irrigation. In this case farmers will build
temporary short furrows within the basin and will apply furrow irrigation
as they do in the Delta for cotton. It is expected that with this method of
irrigation and with a good land levelling and training of farmers, the field
irrigation efficiency will not drop below the assumed value of 0.65.
3.17       Irrigation Distribution System.  There will be six offtake struc-
tures in the Nasr Canal, two between pumping stations 4 and 5, serving about
11,000 feddans and four after pumping station 5 serving about 13,000 feddans.
Branch canals of a total length of 45 km will take off from these structures
to supply the irrigation system with water. Primary and secondary canals of a



- 18 -
total length of 78 km will feed the tertiary canals which will have a standard
capacity of about 60 1/sec and will serve two blocks of 7 farms each, located
on both sides of the canal. Water control and measurement structures will be
constructed in the canals for accurate water level management and water
measurement. Water distribution will be based on a weekly rotational supply
of 30 1/sec to each smallholder. During the peak summer period all canals
will be running continuously at full supply capacity over 24 hours. In the
off peak period, the branch canals will still operate continuously but at a
lower capacity while the rest of the system will operate on a rotational
basis. This operational pattern should make operation of the Nasr Canal
pumping stations easier by reducing the variations in discharge levels.
3.18      Branch, primary and secondary canals will be concrete-lined and
have a trapezoidal section with side slopes of 1.5:1. In areas with a high
presence of gypsum, a plastic membrane will be placed underneath the concrete
lining. The tertiary canals will consist of pre-cast units of semi-circular
or poly-centrical section, equipped with prefabricated control structures.
Water from the tertiary canal will be distributed within the farm by earth
field channels.
3.19      The design capacity of the water distribution system will be 20
percent above the calculated irrigation requirements to allow for reduced
irrigation efficiencies in the early years of the project. This and the
flexibility in operation to be gained would justify the small additional
investment in incremental capacity of the system.
3.20      Land Levelling.  In order to achieve precision levels and reduce
earth moving volume, laser levelling will be used. Land levelling will be
applied in two phases: the primary levelling by which the land will be
leveled in strips parallel to the contours of up to 1,000 m long and 20-40
m wide and precise enough to allow the flooding of the basins for leaching,
and the final levelling, which will be applied within the limits of each
basin, after the initial leaching to repair irregularities due to the
differential settlement of the soil after irrigation.
Drainage
3.21      Currently, the water table depth below the project area is more
than 7 m. However, according to predictions for future water table develop-
ment based on a computer model developed by FAO in the West Nubariya area, 1/
waterlogging in the project area is expected to begin two or three years
after the commencement of irrigation and to affect most of the area 12 years
later. The installation of a complete drainage system is thus essential for
the project area. While it could be postponed until the water table reaches
a level close to the root zone, later installation would be more expensive
and would disturb the operation of irrigation and the crops in general.
Therefore, it is proposed that the installation of the drainage system be
included in the project works and be done at the same time as the other
reclamation works.
1/   FAG Project EGY/73/048.



- 19 -
3.22      The field drainage system will consist of PVC corrugated buried
pipes (laterals) of a diameter of 80 mm and a length of 250 m which will
discharge into buried concrete pipe collectors of a diameter varying from
150 to 300 mm and of average length of 750 m. The average flow rate from the
field drainage system is estimated to be 4 mm/day. For the open drains, an
additional amount of 2.4 mm/day was added to allow for surface runoff. The
drainage system will be designed to maintain the water table at a depth of
1.20 m. The spacing and depth of field drains will be determined for this
effective drainage depth on the basis of economic criteria. A gravel envelope
will be placed around the PVC laterals to prevent fine material from entering
the pipes and to provide a zone of higher conductivity around the pipes. The
total length of PVC laterals is estimated to be 2,000 km.
3.23      The drainage water will be evacuated from the pipe collectors
through a network of open branch drains which will have a minimum depth of
3.00 m and a side slope of 1.5:1. The total length of the open drains is
estimated to be about 100 km. A Regional Main Drain of 27 km, running
northwards will discharge the drainage water into the Main Nubariya Drain,
currently under construction.
Settlement of Small Holders
3.24      Selection Criteria. The 4,000 farmers who would be settled under
the project will be selected according to the following criteria:
- Egyptian nationality;
- agriculture as a main occupation for at least five consecutive
years prior to the date of application;
- no police record excepting only minor specified misdemeanors;
- good health and physique and age no more than 50;
- a household of at least three persons, including at least one
person of working age in addition to the applicant;
- possession of no land, or less than an economically viable
area, and in no case more than two feddans rented or owned,
with priority given to the landless;
- commitment to participate in training and educational programs
(for both male and female members of the household);
- commitment to be employed in land reclamation works for a
specified period.
These criteria are designed to achieve the project objectives of assisting
the poor rural population and of effectively developing the reclaimed land



- 20 -
through involvement of farmers having the necessary resources and capabilities,
and with experience in similar irrigated agriculture. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government will apply the above criteria for the
selection of settlers.
3.25      Before being granted ownership of their land, settlers will have
passed through four stages of "selection" which will include screening at
initial registration, selection by a formal Selection Board in each recruitment
area, a probationary period of at least two months as a member of the reclama-
tion labor force, and a period of probationary tenancy on the land. The
selection process will be phased to allow arrival of settlers to fit in with
other aspects of physical and institutional development in the project.
3.26      Settlement Pattern.  The 4,000 settler families in the project will
be accommodated in 20 villages, located wherever possible on land unsuitable
for agricultural use. The proposed hierarchy of settlements will include 16
basic or satellite villages, each having 200 farm families (1,200 population)
with appropriate social and community facilities, and 4 main villages, one of
which will become the Project Center. Thus, for each 4 satellite villages
there will be 1 main village where extra facilities will be provided, appro-
priate to an initial population of around 6,000. The Project Center will have
facilities of a main village together with further facilities appropriate for
an initial population of around 25,000.
3.27      Infrastructure.  A suitable road network will be constructed to link
the new villages with the Project Center and to the main population centers
in the area. This will comprise 12 km road along the extension of the Nasr
Canal, 8 km road to link the Project Center to the Alexandria-Cairo desert
road and 8 km road to link the Project Center to the Maryut Farm. These roads
will have a 7 m wide carriageway with a wearing surface of premixed bitumen.
A secondary road of 14 km with 4 m wide carriageway will be built across the
project area to serve as a collector for the central irrigated zone linking
this zone to the main road of Nasr Canal. In addition, a total of 45 km of
village roads will be constructed to link the satellite villages to the main
villages and to the Project Center. The village roads will have a 5 m wide
tar spray and chip surface. In most of the cases these roads will follow
canal or drain alignments. Finally, a total of 23 km of streets will be
constructed in the villages and the Project Center.
3.28      The project will provide a safe and convenient domestic water
supply system to all the villages and to the Project Center. Water will be
taken from the new pipeline, now under construction, which starts at the
Maryut treatment plant and, following the Alexandria-Cairo Desert Road, ends
at the Free Zone. The existing capacity of the Maryut plant is 80,000 m3/day,
but it will be increased to 140,000 m3/day by the end of 1982. Domestic water
requirements for the project area are estimated to be about 6,000 m3/day,
an amount which is a small fraction of the capacity of the treatment plant
and of the new pipeline. Booster stations will provide the necessary pressure
to the water to reach all the villages and storage reservoirs will be con-
structed to ensure the supply of water during brief interruptions of the
functioning of the system. The project will also finance the reticulations
in all villages and the Project Center together with offices, stores and staff
housing.



- 21 -
3.29      All settler households in the project area and all staff houses and
other buildings in the villages and Project Center will be provided with
electricity. This basic service is considered a valuable incentive to attract
new settlers and staff to the area and establish permanent rural communities.
Electricity will be taken from the 66/11 kV transformers of the pumping
stations 4 and 5, which have extra capacity. Electrical power requirements
are estimated to be 180 KW per village and 800 KW for the Project Center. An
extra total installed power of 1,000 KW was included for future expansion.
For the distribution of electricity to the villages and Project Center, it
will be required to erect 60 km of 11 KV lines. The project will also finance
the installation of low voltage network and street lighting in the villages
and Project Center.
3.30      An adequate telephone network linking the villages of the project
with the Project Center and the latter with the Ameriya city will be included
in the project works. This is considered to be essential social service and
would facilitate the efficient operation of the irrigation system and agricul-
tural production processes. The proposed telecommunication network will
include the linking of the satellite villages to the main villages and to the
Project Center and the linking of the Project Center to the Ameriya city
Exchange. About 90 km of overhead lines, 3 manual exchanges and one central
exchange will be required.
3.31      Settler Houses.  The project will provide minimal houses to the
settlers. These would include two rooms and an aqua privy within a walled
compound or "hosh" of about 200 m2, in which a shelter for livestock will be
built by the farmers. Provision will be made for pits, for a metered elec-
trical connection to each house, and for water supply at communal standpipes
(one for each 12 families) with the possibility to be connected in the future
to individual houses at the settlers' own expense. The hosh would allow for
expansion of living quarters to accommodate additional family members, and
enlargement of livestock stables when necessary (Graphic 21618, Annex 1).
3.32      As there are limestone quarries in the area, limestone blocks
will be used for the construction of settler houses. These blocks are less
expensive than the red bricks used in other settlement projects and have
better load bearing capacity. For the roof of the houses precast concrete
units (tee beams supporting arch units) will be used. Experiments are being
conducted by the General Organization for Research in Planning, Building and
Construction using sun-dried stabilized soil bricks as construction material
for low cost houses. Should the stabilized bricks prove, in the near future,
to be a technically and economically sound solution, the project will adopt
these materials in the remaining construction program. The project, if
necessary will provide technical assistance to complete the above studies. On
account of the magnitude of the building program, the construction of the
village houses will be undertaken by contractors.
3.33      Agriculture Infrastructure Service Buildings.  At each satellite
village the project will provide a bank office, a milk collection point, and
a building for storage and distribution of agricultural inputs. This basic
core of buildings will be supplemented, in each main village, by administra-
tive offices for project staff and a tractor workshop for minor repair work.



- 22 -
At the Project Center, further buildings will include a veterinary clinic, a
milk cooling center (with testing laboratory, washing and sterilizing equipment
and tanker loading facilities), a soil/water testing laboratory, an animal
holding center, a repair facility for project equipment and vehicles, and a
major tractor workshop.
3.34      Social Services.  Settler populations in reclamation schemes have an
extremely high proportion of infants and children, and a growth rate of about
3.5% compared with the national average of 2.5%. Because of this, the level
of provision of certain services--particularly child-health and education--needs
to be higher than for rural programs in general, and provision should be made
for expansion over a period of 10 to 20 years.
3.35      Education provision in the project will aim at overcoming deficien-
cies experienced in previous settlement schemes, especially the long distance
to schools (because of their concentration in larger centers), and the in-
effectiveness of school operation (because of inadequate provision of the
kinds of facilities which induce teachers to live near the schools). The
school system will aim to provide basic education to all school-age children
with opportunity for further education. It is expected that all primary age
children, 36% of preparatory age children, and 18% of secondary age children
will be enrolled in their respective schools. Provision was made under the
project for establishing 20 primary schools (one in each of the 20 villages),
4 preparatory schools (one in each of the 4 main villages) and one secondary
school at the Project Center. However, a new law is under preparation in
Egypt under which compulsory education will be extended to nine years and will
be provided in the whole country through "Basic Education Schools" which will
replace the 6-year primary and 3-year preparatory schools. Should this law
become effective soon, the project proposals for schools will be revised
accordingly. The change of the education facilities from the old to the new
system will not entail additional cost. The Ministry of Education will be
requested to prepare plans for developing new approaches to teaching in the
schools. Among other things, the following would be desirable concepts to
include in these new approaches: cooperation with project staff to carry
out programs of adult education, programs dealing with social problems and
needs in the fields of health and population, and programs of vocational
education; emphasis at the preparatory and secondary level of education
on training in agriculture and other rural occupations; and expansion of
curricula at a later stage to include an introduction to a variety of skill
training for urban employment. At all educational levels, the target number
of pupils per teacher would be 40. Sufficient land will be allocated for
expansion of school buildings and facilities in relation to population
growth, enrollment rates and curriculum changes. All teachers will be
provided with housing and given other incentives (such as allowances and
land for home gardens) to encourage permanent residence. They will also
benefit from the adequate social facilities provided for the general village
population (especially for health care).
3.36      Health facilities would be provided under the project as follows:
(a) 16 Branch Clinics at the satellite villages with consulting and
examination rooms, each staffed by a dresser/sanitarian and a cleaner;



- 23 -
(b) 3 Rural Health Units at the main villages, similar to the standard adopted
by the Ministry of Health, staffed by 2 doctors, 2 nurse/midwives, one sani-
tarian, one laboratory technician and support staff; (c) 1 Rural Health Center
at the Project Center with 12 in-patient beds including maternity, with a
delivery suite and minor surgical unit, staffed as the health units with
additional an ophthalmologist, a dentist, a pharmacist, 2 more nurses and more
support staff.
3.37      The project will also provide for education in health and population
matters in cooperation with both the formal school system and the community
development program. Health workers will be provided with houses and incen-
tives for permanent residence, such as allowances and land for home gardens.
All farm settler recruits and their families will receive medical examinations
and treatment for curable diseases prior to their arrival, and specific
provision will be made in the project for monitoring water-borne diseases.
3.38      Other Social Service Buildings and Staff Housing.  In addition to
the above described educational and health facilities the project will provide
at each village a Women's Crafts Center, with space for day care and for
training classes and a Youth and Vocational Training Center, with workshop and
meeting space. At the Project Center there will also be, Police and Fire
Stations and Post and Telephone Offices. Staff Housing will be provided for
all project staff and staff belonging to the agencies which will operate the
project facilities. It is estimated that at the Project Center there will be
a need for 8 houses for senior staff, 100 flats for other staff and about 50
low cost houses for drivers and technicians. At the villages there will be a
need for about 130 flats for project and other staff and 25 low cost houses
for drivers and technicians. All the above houses will be provided with
electricity, water supply and sewage system.
3.39      Village Design.  Within the villages, settlers' houses will be
arranged in clusters of 12 around a central court area which will contain
the communal water standpipe, fire hydrant and laundry facilities. This
arrangement would replicate the "midana" of traditional Egyptian architecture
and would discourage the garbage deposition and unauthorized construction
which have cluttered the wider spaces provided in other settlement schemes.
In developing a plan of individual villages, the housing clusters would be in
turn grouped around a central core of social and community buildings. Graphic
21618, Annex 1 suggests possible plans which would be modified, if necessary,
to adapt them to the topographical features of individual village sites. The
project would support tree planting within the villages to provide shade, and
shelter against sand-laden winds.
Farm Machinery and Maintenance
3.40      It is not intended that farmers would use their cattle for draft
purposes but rather that primary tillage and threshing would be carried out
by privately owned agricultural machinery. The Project will provide about
150 65-horsepower tractors and sets of agricultural machinery to be bought on
credit by agricultural cooperatives, farmer groups or individual small entre-
preneurs. The agricultural machinery set will consist of a chisel plough,



- 24 -
disc harrows, leveller and ridger. Forty threshers will be provided for
threshing of small grains and 40 trailers for transport of farm produce. A
major workshop for repair and overhaul of tractors will be established at the
Project Center and three satellite workshops for minor repairs and maintenance
of tractors and machinery will be established in the main villages. The major
and satellite workshops will be operated under contract by the successful
bidder for supply of tractors who will be responsible for the installation of
equipment and technical assistance for repair and maintenance. These obliga-
tions will be included in the tractor supply contract. Three of the tractors
and accompanying machinery will service the needs of the Training Farm and
Research plots. The project will also provide some additional machinery for
testing purposes under project conditions.
Field Trials and Training Farm
3.41      Field trials are currently underway by ULG Consultants Ltd in the
Maryut Farm, in an area adjacent to the project. These trials were originally
financed by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of UK and from
September 1 to December 31, 1980 their continuation was secured with Bank
financing, using the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The program of
trials includes: (a) testing of different irrigation methods and their
efficiency; (b) establishing leaching requirements and procedures; (c) testing
of crops to obtain information regarding crop yields, water requirements,
micro-nutrient defficiencies and response to different cultivation techniques,
fertilizer applications and sowing time; and (d) training of Egyptian counter-
parts in all the above aspects. Preliminary results obtained after one year
of trials confirmed that basin irrigation is the most appropriate method of
irrigation in the project area. They also showed that the soils in general
are easily leachable and that high yields can be obtained from the first year
of cropping. The Project will provide funds for continuation of the field
trials for four more years. Results from these trials in both crop and
irrigation operations will be used to design cropping procedures and to apply
them to a training farm of 130 feddans consisting of 16 six-feddan farms and a
34-feddan experimental plot. The training farm, which will be established in
year 2 of the project, will be initially used for the training of Village
Extension Workers and, later, for the training of settlers (para 4.12). The
Project will also provide some training fellowships for extensionists and
subject matter specialists immediately prior to the establishment of the
training farm.
Consultant Services
3.42      The complexity of the project, the shortage of experienced local
personnel in certain specialities and the need for timely coordination of the
several project activities will require the use of consultants in the
following fields:
(a) Preparation of final design and tender documents and supervision of
construction. The design will include irrigation and drainage works,
infrastructure, project buildings and houses in the remaining 16,800
feddans of the project area. About 116 manmonths of consultancy time
will be required;



- 25 -
(b) Continuation of field trials, extension and training. Four full-
time consultants will be appointed to assist in establishing the
research and extension programs and advise on and participate in
training activities. Provision will be made for these consultants
to carry out short-term assignments after completion of the main
assignments to give Egyptian specialists support for their work.
A total of 155 manmonths of consultancy time will be required; and
(c) Other consulting services. In addition to the above, a provision
is made for 36 manmonths short-term specialists to assist the
Government in solving technical and managerial problems.
3.43      In total, 307 manmonths of consultancy time will be required for
the implementation of the project. One of the main tasks of the consultants
will be the training of Egyptian staff. All consultants will be appointed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Assurances to this effect
were obtained at negotiations.
Technical Assistance Under the Project Preparation Facility
3.44      A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been approved by IDA
for the present project for the amount of US$1.0 million. Under this facility,
the following services are being carried out by the Consultant:
(a) Preparation of final design and tender documents for the first
7,200 feddans. This will include land reclamation works, infra-
structure, social services buildings and housing, with an estimated
cost of about US$860,000.
(b) Continuation of ongoing field trials. With the cessation of the
ODA funding commitment on August 31, 1980, PFF will cover the
cost of continuing the current trials until the end of 1980, at an
estimated cost of about US$140,000.
Financial Support to Farmers and Compensation to Bedouin
3.45      During a development period consisting of the first three years of
cultivation on each holding, the World Food Program has agreed to provide a
basic ration to each settler family. The project also provides funds for
financial support to farmers during the first year of their settlement and for
the compensation of the few remaining Bedouin families who graze their flocks
over the project area during part of the year and who will be displaced by the
project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these Bedouin families
will receive adequate compensation for the land that will no longer be avail-
able for their use.
Status of Engineering
3.46      A full feasibility study for the reclamation of the West Nubariya
area, was completed in August 1979 by ULG Consultants Limited under assignment
by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of UK. Detailed design work



- 26 -
for the first 7,200 feddans of the project area and tender documents are being
carried out by the firm Halcrow-ULG Ltd with Bank financing using the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) and it is expected to be completed by December
1980. Cost estimates and quantities, derived from this final design work,
have been used in the preparation of this report. It is expected that, as
soon as the IDA credit is approved, it will be possible to proceed with the
advertising of the first contract covering the 7,200 feddans. The preparation
of detailed design and tender documents for the remaining 16,800 feddans of
the project will be financed under the project and will start as soon as the
project becomes effective. Infrastructure, including housing and social
services buildings, will be included in the design work and will be prepared
by the Consultant in collaboration with the corresponding Government agencies.
The design will also cover the two major works to be executed under the
Ministry of Irrigation, namely the extension of the Nasr Canal from km 55 to
km 67 and the Regional Main Drain.
Implementation Schedule
3.47      The project will be implemented over six years, from January
1981 through December 1986. Construction of reclamation works for the first
part of the project (7,200 feddans) will begin July 1981 and be completed
by December 1983. Cropping rotation in this area will start in October 1984,
after an allowance of 9 months is made for leaching and final levelling.
Construction of reclamation works for the second part of the project (16,800
feddans) including the two major works to be executed under the Ministry of
Irrigation, will start March 1982 and be completed by December 1984. Cropping
rotation in this area will be phased in two periods, one covering 8,400
feddans, will start in May 1985 and the second, covering the remaining
8,400 feddans will start in October 1985. Infrastructure, houses, buildings
for social services and other facilities will be constructed at the same time
as the irrigation and drainage works. Graphic 21619 in Annex 1 shows the
implementation schedule of the main project works.
Bilharzia Control
3.48      Bilharzia or schistosomiasis is the most serious parasitic infection
in Egypt. Schistosoma haematobium is found throughout Egypt while S. mansoni
(the intestinal form together with the urinary infection) is found sporadically
in Giza Governorate, and generally in most parts of the Delta. Recent studies
in northern Governorates indicate a downward trend in the endemicity of S.
haematobium and an increase in that of S. mansoni.
3.49      An integrated bilharzia control program with Bank financial assistance
was initiated in 1973, covering an area of 900,000 feddans in Middle Egypt
under Upper Egypt Drainage I Project (Credit 393-EGT). This was supplemented
by control work in a further 150,000 feddans between Assiut and Dairut under
Upper Egypt Drainage II Project (Credit/Loan 637/1285-EGT). A total popula-
tion of some 4.3 million is at risk in the area of these control programs.
The control strategy applied has involved a three-year period of intensive
snail control measures by spreading molluscicides on an area-wide basis three
times annually, together with chemotherapy of the infected population. This



- 27 -
strategy is also being applied in Upper Egypt between Aswan and Assiut under
Nile Delta Drainage II Project (Credit/Loan 719/ 1439-40-EGT) on an area of
some 1,200,000 feddans, with a total population of 5.1 million people.
3.50      Existing evaluation data show that a highly satisfactory overall
reduction in prevalence of S. haematobium has been achieved following the
intensive phase of intervention in Middle Egypt during the past three years,
with prevalence falling from 29.4% at the time of the primary survey to 16.6%
at present.
3.51      Following appraisal of the available epidemiological data, it is
considered that the intensive phase intervention in Middle and Upper Egypt
should be followed by a three-year 'consolidation' phase, during which the
integrated control strategy will be continued, but with a reduced number of
molluscicide applications made annually on an area-wide basis in the spring
and autumn, and supplemented by surveillance and focal use of molluscicides as
required during the summer period--together with continuing treatment of
infected people based upon annual reexaminations. This consolidation phase
will be included in the present project. It is hoped that the prevalence of
infection at the end of the consolidation period would be reduced to less
than 10%. With this prevalence the intensity of infections would be low
(because of the low contamination factor) and this would minimize the need for
intensive and frequent molluscicidal operations during the maintenance phase.
Thus, the control intervention measures which will be undertaken during the
maintenance phase will consist of chemotherapy and only minimal molluscicidal
operations at a relatively low cost. The maintenance phase will be carried
out with Government resources only.
3.52      Under the project, the Bilharzia Control Programs in Middle and
Upper Egypt will be expanded to include an intensive phase of operations
in the contiguous northern area of Giza Governorate. This expansion is
justified by the support which would be given to the present control programs
in Middle Egypt and Fayoum Governorate, and particularly since it would
assist in preventing the potential spread of transmission of Schistosoma
mansoni southward into Middle Egypt. The input requirements in the Giza area
will be limited, since it is already benefiting from some molluscicide
applications in Middle Egypt and Fayoum. This program will cover the irri-
gated area of 221,500 feddans in Giza Governorate which has a population of
about 2.5 million people. An intensive three-year phase of control operations
will involve area-wide applications of molluscicide three times annually and
chemotherapy in rural and urban centers. Epidemiological baseline data will
be collected for on-going evaluation of the applied integrated control
strategy.
3.53      In the 24,000 feddans settlement area, where development is phased
and a gradual build-up in population density will take place, there is an
opportunity to screen immigrant settlers and their families, diagnose infec-
tions and treat infected cases. The lowest possible contamination factor
should, therefore, be established and transmission prevented or, at any rate,
minimized. The proposed infrastructure of health delivery at the rural health
centers and units in the area will be utilized for this purpose. Provision



- 28 -
will also be made for the chemotherapeutic treatment of infected patients
among the 100,000 people who are living in the adjacent New Lands reclamation
area in which no control measures are currently applied. Snail surveillance
procedure will also commence in all irrigated areas and in peri-domestic
situations where human water contacts may occur. It is anticipated, however,
that few molluscicide applications will be necessary during the first three
years of development. Careful epidemiological evaluation procedures will be
established since patient diagnosis, treatment and follow-up examinations
constitute the most important elements of the proposed control strategy.
3.54      To carry out the above described bilharzia control program the
project will provide 950 tons of molluscicide, 2,000,000 courses of metri-
fonate, 260,000 courses of an appropriate drug for S. mansoni (see para.
3.59), together with transport and other equipment.'
Cost Estimates
3.55      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at LE 135 million (US$193 million) of which LE 118 million
(US$169 million) is for land reclamation works and LE 17 million (US$24 mil-
lion) is for the bilharzia control component. The foreign exchange component
for the total project is US$88.7 million (46%) of which US$69.1 million (41%)
for the land reclamation works and US$19.6 million (81%) for the bilharzia
control component. The assistance to be provided by the World Food Program in
food to the settlers, estimated at US$3.1 million, has been included in the
project cost. Cost estimates are based on December 1979 prices. Civil
works cost estimates include 5% taxes and duties and are derived from unit
rates obtained from similar works in Egypt and in other Eastern Mediterranean
countries. Quantities are based on detailed design work carried out for the
first 7,200 feddans of the project. Equipment cost estimates are based on
unit prices of similar equipment procured recently under other Bank projects
in Egypt and on price quotations from suppliers. Taxes and duties for equip-
ment, estimated in average at 10%, are included in the prices as local cost.
Consultant's costs have been estimated at US$10,700 per manmonth of which
US$9,000 per manmonth foreign cost (for fees, overheads, travel and overseas
allowances) and US$1,700 per manmonth local cost (for subsistence, local trans-
portation, local office operating expenses and other minor items). Physical
contingencies have been assessed at 10% for equipment and consultants and 15%
for civil works except settler houses for which 10% was allowed. Price
contingency estimates assume increases in local currency costs of 18% in 1980,
15% in 1981, 12% in 1982 and 10% per annum thereafter (based on expected
domestic inflation) and in foreign exchange costs of 10.5% for 1980, 9% for
1981, 8% for 1982, 7% for 1983-85 and 6% per annum thereafter.  Project cost
estimates are summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 1, Table 1.
Financing
3.56      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) will
finance the foreign exchange cost for the land reclamation works of the project
(excluding the WFP assistance) and part of the foreign exchange cost for the
bilharzia control component. The remaining foreign exchange cost for the
bilharzia control component and its local cost will be financed by the African



Cost Estimates (Summary)
LE million                             US $ million                   Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total            Local      Foreign      Total          Exchange
Cost       Cost        Cost             Cost        Cost        Cost              %
A.   RECLAMATION WORKS
- Civil Works                         33.1        25.1        58.2            47.3        35.9        83.2              43
- Equipment                            0.7         2.7         3.4             1.0         3.9         4.9              80
- Technical Assistance under PPF        -          0.7         0.7              -          1.0         1.0             100
- Consultants                          0.3         2.0         2.3             0.5         2.8         3.3              85
- Overseas Training                     -          0.1         0.1              -          0.1         0.1             100
- Services and Support to Farmers    3.7            -          3.7             5.3          -          5.3              -
Subtotal                       37.8        30.5       68.3             54.1        43.6        97.7             45
- Physical Contingencies               4.8         4.1         8.9             6.9         5.8        12.7              46
- Price Contingencies                 27.0        11.6        38.6            38.7        16.6        55.2              30
Total Reclamation Works        69.7        46.2       115.8            99.6        66.0       165.6             40
B.   WORLD FOOD PROGRAM ASSISTANCE                                                                                                   '
- Value of Food                                    1.4         1.4              -          2.0         2.0             100
- Price Contingencies                              0.8         0.8              -          1.1         1.1             100
Total WFP Contribution           -          2.2         2.2              -          3.1         3.1            100
TOTAL RECLAMATION COST         69.7        48.3       118.0            99.6        69.1       168.7             41
C.   BILHARZIA CONTROL
- Equipment and Chemicals              2.0        10.0        12.0             2.9        14.3        17.2              83
- Physical Contingencies               0.2         1.0         1.2             0.3         1.4         1.7              83
- Price Contingencies                  1.0         2.7         3.7             1.4         3.9         5.3              74
Total Bilharzia Control         3.2        13.7        16.9             4.6        19.6        24.2             81
Total Base Cost                       39.8        41.9        81.7            57.0        59.9       116.9              51
Total Physical Contingencies           5.0         5.1        10.1             7.2         7.2        14.4              50
Total Price Contingencies             28.0        15.1        43.1            40.1        21.6        61.7              35
GRAND TOTAL                    72.8        62.1       134.9           104.3        88.7       193.0             46



- 30 -
Development Fund of the African Development Bank. The World Food Program will
finance the value of imported food to be distributed to the farmers during the
first three years of their settlement. All local currency expenditures for the
land reclamation works, except a 10% downpayment for the purchase of farm
machinery to be paid by the farmers, will be financed by the Government. The
proposed financing plan is shown below:
Reclamation   Bilharzia
Works      Component   Total   Percent
-------------------US$mil------------------
IDA                               66.0          14.0        80.0     41
African Development Fund            -           10.0        10.0      5
World Food Program                 3.0            -          3.0      2
Government                        99.6            -         99.6     52
Farmers                            0.4            -          0.4      -
TOTAL                      169.0          24.0       193.0    100
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will provide,
promptly as needed, the funds required for the implementation of the project
and that it will take all action required to ensure the conclusion of the loan
from the African Development Fund within six months from the date of the
Development Credit Agreement for financing the bilharzia control component or
prepare within such period alternative financing arrangements, satisfactory to
IDA.
Procurement
3.57      Construction of civil works would be divided into the following
four main contracts:
(a) extension of Nasr Canal from pumping station 5 to
km 67; estimated cost LE 4.5 million (US$6.4 million);
(b) construction of Regional Main Drain with the related
structures; estimated cost LE 5.5 million (US$7.9 million);
(c) construction of irrigation and drainage works on 7,200
feddans net, including land levelling, infrastructure,
settler and staff housing, service and social buildings;
estimated cost LE 14.0 million (US$20.0 million); and
(d) construction of irrigation and drainage works on 16,800
feddans net, including land levelling, infrastructure,
settler and staff housing, service and social buildings;
estimated cost LE 33.0 million (US$47.0 million).
These contracts would be tendered under international competitive bidding
according to the Bank's guidelines. The Ministry of Irrigation will be



- 31 -
responsible for the execution of the first two contracts of a total cost of
LE 10.0 million (US$14.3 million) and with physical and price contingencies
LE 17.2 million (US$24.6 million). The Ministry of Land Reclamation will be
responsible for the execution of the other two contracts of a total cost of
LE 47.0 million (US$67.2 million) and with physical and price contingencies
LE 80.2 million (US$114.7 million). In addition to the above main contracts
there will be a number of small contracts, each not exceeding LE 0.35 million
(US$0.5 million) and in the aggregate LE 1.4 million (US$2.0 million) which
may be awarded under competitive bidding following local procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. These small contracts will be executed under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Land Reclamation.
3.58      Equipment, farm machinery and vehicles for land reclamation of a
total estimated foreign exchange cost of LE 2.7 million (US$3.9 million), or
LE 4.0 million (US$5.7 million) with physical and price contingencies, will
be procured (with exceptions noted below) following international competitive
bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers
will be allowed a 15% margin or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
Small contracts of up to US$50,000 equivalent for equipment may be awarded on
a competitive basis to reliable suppliers after quotations have been obtained
from at least three such suppliers whenever practicable. The aggregate
expenditure for items so procured will not exceed US$400,000 equivalent.
Proprietary equipment (mainly spare parts) estimated to cost in the aggregate
up to US$300,000 equivalent may be purchased off-the-shelf from reliable
suppliers. A detailed list of project equipment for land reclamation is given
in Annex 1, Table 2.
3.59      For equipment and vehicles under the bilharzia control component
of a total estimated value of LE 0.4 million (US$0.6 million), the same
procurement procedures of international competitive bidding will be applied.
As regards the molluscicide, since this chemical (powder formulation of
niclosamide) is currently produced by more than one manufacturers (one of whom
is a local firm), its procurement will also follow international competitive
bidding procedures. The local manufacturer will be allowed a 15% preference
or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is less, provided that the manufactur-
ing cost includes a domestic value added equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory price. The cost, based on the current price of the local product, is
estimated at LE 10.0 million (US$14.3 million). The oral drug (metrifonate)
is produced at present by only one West German manufacturer and it will
therefore be procured directly from this manufacturer at an estimated cost of
LE 0.7 million (US$1.0 million). The type of drug to be used for the chemo-
therapeutic treatment of S. mansoni, has not yet been selected. A decision
will be made at a later stage by the Government in consultation with IDA. The
selected drug will be procured directly or through international competitive
bidding depending on whether the drug is produced by one or more manufacturers.
Assurances on the above procurement procedures were obtained at negotiations.
Disbursement
3.60      The IDA credit of US$80 million will be disbursed over a period of
six years as follows:



- 32 -
(a) 40% of the cost of civil works contracts representing
the estimated foreign exchange component;
(b) 100% of the foreign exchange of imported equipment and materials or
100% of local expenditures ex-factory or 75% of local expenditures,
representing the foreign exchange cost;
(c)  85% of the cost of consultant services; and
(d) 100% of overseas training.
An estimated schedule of disbursements is summarized below and is detailed in
Annex 1, Table 3.
BANK FISCAL YEAR
DISBURSEMENTS
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984    1985    1986
==            - US$mil ------------1 -------
Annual           0.6       5.1 /1  14.2       22.4     22.2   11.9      3.3
Cumulative       0.6       6.0      20.2     42.6      64.8   76.7    80.0
/1   Includes US$1.00 million financed under PPF arrangement.
The closing date of the project will be December 31, 1987.
Auditing and Accounts
3.61      The Ministry of Land Reclamation, the Ministry of Irrigation and the
Ministry of Health, like all other Government Agencies in Egypt, have internal
audit departments which audit all their accounts and authorize payments. In
addition the High Authority for Accounting of the Parliament maintains permanent
staff within the Ministries who carry out continuous audits on a sample basis.
The Ministries of Land Reclamation, Irrigation and Health will establish
separate accounts for the project. The statements of project accounts,
covering both expenditures and sources of funds, will be forwarded to IDA.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Environmental Effect
3.62      The project will have an overall beneficial impact on the physical
environment and population. The proposed reclamation works will transform
the desert into cultivated fields. The installation of a drainage system will
keep the water table at low levels and therefore maintain good hygienic
conditions in the area. Provision of houses to the farmers and infrastructure
in the form of roads, water supply, electrification, schools, health units,
community centers, etc., will all help to improve the social environment.
Bedouins, living currently as nomads under hard desert conditions, will be



- 33 -
given the opportunity to have access to all the social services that for
centuries they were deprived of.   Improved agricultural and animal production
will result in raising nutrition levels of the project population. The risk
of spreading bilharzia in the area through the expansion of irrigation will be
minimized by the proposed Bilharzia Control Program. The molluscicide to be
used under this program is biodegradable and causes minimal and only temporary
alterations in microflora and microfauna; it is harmless to humans.
The Situation and Role of Women
3.63      The situation of women and the role they play in the settlement
process is a key factor in its success or failure. The move to a new community
has been found in previous projects to be one of much greater stress for women
than for men because of the dependency of women on services and ties in their
home community. The advantages of better housing, water and electricity
supply which compensate for these losses need to be reinforced by the
provision of adequate social, medical and transport services. There is also a
need to provide educational measures for women to overcome a traditionally
subordinate and isolated position in rural society which can otherwise be an
impediment to development. A high level of illiteracy among women in previous
schemes has led to difficulties in introducing social and health measures
necessary if the long-term social objectives of the project are to be achieved.
Educational and training programs for women are also needed to enhance the
role which they traditionally play in agricultural and livestock production.
Community development services and facilities provided under the project will
include literacy, health and population education, the provision of day-care
centers to release women for educational and production activities and training
centers for handicraft development. Dairying and the rearing of poultry and
rabbits by women for both home consumption and the market are major production
aspects of the project, and for this purpose female professional staff and
village auxiliary workers will be given special training to work as part of
the animal husbandry extension, distribution and marketing services.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Implementing Agencies and Their Responsibilities
4.01      The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt will be the Borrower
under the project. The Ministry of Land Reclamation, being the principal
implementing agency, will be responsible for overall planning and coordina-
tion.   Because of the involvement of many Government agencies in the imple-
mentation of the project, special provisions have been made for the coordina-
tion of their activities. At the Central Government level a Central Coordina-
tion Committee, comprising representatives from the three main Ministries
involved in the project, Land Reclamation, Irrigation and Agriculture, has
been established to coordinate their activities related to the project (para.
4.02). A Project Unit under the Ministry of Land Reclamation is to be estab-
lished to carry out the project day-to-day work (para. 4.04). The Project



- 34 -
Unit will be supported by a Regional Implementation Committee which would
include the regional representatives of all agencies involved in project
implementation and of the farmers (para. 4.06).
Central Coordination Committee
4.02      The project Central Coordination Committee has been established
in Cairo and comprises three permanent members:
-    the First Undersecretary of the Ministry of Land
Reclamation who will act as chairman of the committee;
-    the Undersecretary for Irrigation Projects of the
Ministry of Irrigation;
-    the Undersecretary for Agricultural Extension of the
Ministry of Agriculture.
When necessary, the committee will invite other members of the above three
Ministries or representatives from other Ministries to participate in the
discussion on specific matters. During the early years of project implementa-
tion, the committee will concentrate in the planning and coordination of the
construction programs to be carried out by different Ministries; in securing
Government funds for financing these programs; and in periodically reviewing
their progress. Later, the role of the committee will be expanded to include
formulation of plans for joint activities, securing adequate operation and
maintenance of project works, supervising agricultural research and extension
services and carrying out training programs for extension agents and settlers.
4.03      Responsibility for the construction of the project will be shared
between the Ministry of Land Reclamation (Authority for Rehabilitation
Projects and Agricultural Development--ARAD) and the Ministry of Irrigation
(Department of New Irrigation Projects), both of which have had considerable
experience of constructing large scale works of a similar nature. Apart from
overall planning and coordination of project activities, the Ministry of Land
Reclamation will be responsible for preparing detailed designs, and for
tendering and execution of all irrigation and drainage works, other than the
Nasr canal and the Regional Main drain.  These latter two will be the re-
sponsibility of the Ministry of Irrigation, which will also be responsible for
the execution of on-going works for securing the irrigation water supply to
the project area (see paragraph 3.11).  The Ministry of Land Reclamation will
prepare designs for domestic water supply, electrification and telecommunica-
tion works in conjunction with the General Water Authority of Alexandria,
the Rural Electrification Authority and the Telecommunications Organisation
respectively. In the case of buildings for the health, education and banking
components plans will be provided by the respective organizations. The
Ministry of Land Reclamation will also be responsible for tendering and
execution of the various works involved, including construction of all project
buildings, while the respective organizations will be responsible for opera-
tion and maintenance.



- 35 -
Project Unit
4.04      A Project Unit, headed by a well qualified and experienced Director
General, will be established under the Ministry of Land Reclamation to carry
out the works described above and act as the implementing arm of this Ministry.
While initially its work will be confined to the construction activities and
the supervision of the on-going agricultural trials program, it will over time
assume full responsibility for carrying on the day-to-day activities of the
project. To begin with, the staff of the Project Unit will be quite small,
but by the beginning of 1983 a staff of about 100 persons will be needed all
to be located in the project area. A work program with the corresponding
budget will be prepared every year by the Unit and submitted to the Ministry
of Land Reclamation for approval. The Ministry will review periodically the
progress of implementation of the program and will take the necessary measures
to solve any problems which might arise. The Project Unit will include the
following four sections:
(a) Engineering Section, responsible for the supervision of construction
works and later for water distribution, for maintenance of all reclamation
works within the project area, project buildings, staff houses and project
equipment and vehicles and for monitoring and evaluation of irrigation and
drainage. The section will be provided with maintenance equipment, workshop
and a spare parts store. The head of the Engineering Section will ensure
liaison of the Project Unit with the Ministry of Irrigation.
(b) Agricultural Section, responsible for agricultural research and
extension, training of settlers, promotion of cooperatives and marketing,
veterinary services and monitoring and evaluation of agricultural activities.
The section will be provided with a veterinary clinic with artificial insemina-
tion facilities and a water and soil laboratory. Most of the agricultural
staff of this section will be provided by the Ministry of Agriculture with
which close liaison will be maintained and from which technical assistance
will be supplied.
(c) Community Development Section, responsible for social affairs,
village development and monitoring and evaluation of social activities.
(d) Administration and Finance, responsible for administrative and
financial matters, including the maintenance of separate project accounts,
covering all expenditures and sources of funds.
4.05      At each of the four main villages, the Project Unit will maintain
a team of four agriculturists-extensionists to provide extension services to
the settlers and five social workers to carry out the community development
program in the villages. In each of the 20 main and satellite villages, one
water man, assisted if necessary by a laborer, will be appointed to be
responsible for the distribution of irrigation water. Houses for all staff
working in the Project Unit (except laborers) will be provided under the
project, together with vehicles and motorcycles for transportation. The
organizational chart of the Project Unit is shown in Annex 1, Graphic 21620.



- 36 -
The establishment of the Project Unit and the appointment of the Director
General and the heads of the Engineering and Agricultural Sections is a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Regional Implementation Committee
4.06      The Project Unit will be supported by a Regional Implementation
Committee in which regional representatives working in the project area for
the respective Government agencies will participate. The main role of the
committee will consist in coordinating, at regional level, the activities of
these agencies. The Regional Implementation Committee will meet as and when
the need arises but at least once every two months. At a later stage, elected
farmers' representatives will participate in the committee to express farmers'
views on project implementation. Assurance on the establishment of the
Regional Implementation Committee before December 31, 1981 were obtained at
negotiations.
Maintenance of Project Works
4.07      Maintenance of the large feeder canals, pumping stations, the
Nasr Canal and the Regional Main Drain will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Irrigation. The annual maintenance cost of these works is esti-
mated at LE 833,000 of which about LE 100,000 is estimated to be the correspond-
ing share of the project.  The same Ministry will assume the responsibility
and bear the cost for the operation of the five pumping stations of the Nasr
Canal which at full development and with the current price of electricity (LE
0.009 per KWh), will be LE 3,900,000. Of this operational cost the share of
the project will be LE 440,000.
4.08      Maintenance of the remaining reclamation works, project buildings,
project houses and training farm will be the responsibility of the Engineering
Section of the Project Unit. The section will:
-    prepare an annual program of major maintenance works to be
carried out by contractors, organize local tenders and
supervise their execution;
-    carry out minor and urgent maintenance works on force account
basis, using labor and project equipment;
-    participate together with the responsible engineer of the Ministry
of Irrigation, in inspections of the main irrigation works and
report on the need for maintenance work;
-    maintain and repair all project equipment and vehicles.
The annual cost for the above maintenance work is estimated to be about LE
170,000 to be charged totally to the project.
4.09      Maintenance of infrastructure (roads, water supply, electrifi-
cation, telecommunication), buildings of social services (schools and health



- 37 -
facilities) and non-project staff houses, will be the responsibility of the
agencies operating these facilities. Assurances for the above maintenance
arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
Agricultural Research, Extension and Training
4.10      The project will provide adequate research, extension and training
programs and facilities in order to ensure that information based on sound
crop and livestock husbandry practices reaches farmers of the project in a
timely manner. The project will utilize the design and construction period
of about four years for carrying out research and for creating an effective
extension organization. A group of Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) will
form the core of this component around which the research, extension and
training organizations will be built. The group of SMS will consist of the
following specialists:
-    Extension specialist (also Director of Research and Extension);
-    Crop Specialist;
-    Soil and Water Management Specialist;
-    Livestock Specialist;
-    Cooperative and Marketing Specialist;
-    Agricultural Machinery Specialist.
4.11      The extension, crop, soil and water and livestock specialists will,
if necessary, work with consultants in each of their fields. In addition, two
veterinarians and a monitoring and evaluation specialist will be appointed.
The crop, soil management and livestock specialists will implement and super-
vise a research program in their specialty located on the research plots and
the training farm. They will utilize the services of short-term researchers
in more narrow fields where required. The overall program will be coordinated
by the Director of Research and Extension and implemented by a supervisor and
several assistants. SMS will receive in-service training from consultants
and, prior to the establishment of the training farm, from courses organized
by the Ministry of Agriculture's Agricultural Training Board (ATB) which will
include some training fellowships outside Egypt.
4.12      Once the training farm is established in mid-1982, SMS will continue
with research but at the same time focus attention on the training of Village
Extension Workers (VEW). Twenty-four VEW trainees will be selected from
higher educated young farmers or children of farmers to receive off-site train-
ing under the guidance of ATB. They will then be assigned to operate a group
of 16 training farms under the guidance of a supervisor and several assistants
and with in-service training from SMS and specialists in goat, rabbit and
beekeeping. At the end of one year, VEWs will be intimately familiar with
farming problems and will have assisted in modifying, if necessary, farming
methods in the light of those problems. Sixteen VEWs will remain to work
in the project, four of whom will specialize in animal husbandry.



- 38 -
4.13      In the next two years three batches of selected farmer applicants
totalling about 1,000 will be assigned to the farms to work alongside and
be guided by the 16 VEWs. Each batch will be divided into 3-5 groups; each
group will spend two months on the farm and 4-8 months in other training
activities or assisting in construction of project facilities.  At the end of
the training period for each batch, their project farms will be ready for
occupation.  These "key farmers," will assist other farmers who have not
received "training farm" instruction in establishing themselves and running
their farms. At this time VEWs will take up their extension posts, with four
in each main village, three of them being specialized in general cropping and
one in animal husbandry. From this point, the extension organization will
follow the Training and Visit System, under which VEWs will visit key farmers
once a fortnight and spend one day, during that period, receiving training and
information from SMS, who will continue being responsible for research
programs. The extension service will be serviced by a small soil laboratory
which could supply information on salinity and on soil fertility based on
simple soil tests. An animal health laboratory will aid veterinarians
in diagnosis, and an animal center will maintain a small selected supply
of improved poultry, rabbits, goats and dairy cattle for purchase by farmers.
The Animal Production Division of the Ministry of Agriculture will select and
purchase goats for screening at the Burg El Arab Center to be supplied to the
project animal center.   Improved rabbits and poultry will be supplied to the
center from Barrage, Montaza and Gomazah stations. Artificially inseminated
buffalo and Baladi cattle at three years of age will be supplied to the
center through the Animal Husbandry Fund of the Ministry of Land Reclamation.
4.14      Thus, by the time farmer settlment begins, the extension group will
consist of SMS, who could relate research results to farmers' needs, and VEW,
who will be familiar with and have personally dealt with farming problems in
the project area. To reinforce the extension program and communication with
farmers, arrangments will be made to work with the Center for Communication
in Development at Maryut.
Agricultural Cooperatives
4.15      In common with cooperatives in other New Lands areas, farmers are
expected to adopt a system of voluntary cooperatives where they find the
need. The Project Unit will be staffed to asist in this process. Under
the guidance of the cooperative specialist and with the assistance of extension
workers, it is likely that such voluntary cooperatives will be formed to
operate some of the village stores, to market specific crops and to operate
tractors. This form of voluntary organisation is possible under the new
legislation, which relaxes the element of compulsion and emphasizes the
benefits of voluntary and flexible arrangements. Because of the introduction
of this informal cooperative system it is necesssary that the Bank for Develop-
ment and Agricultural Credit (BDAC) be more flexible in the type of collateral
accepted for medium-term loans.
4.16      For farmers to successfully organize and operate cooperatives will
require training in cooperative management. Such training of selected farmers



- 39 -
will be provided under the guidance of the Agricultural Training Board (ATB)
which would have developed this capability with assistance of British Govern-
ment finance, by the time training is required.
4.17       Operation of input stores in each village will also be carried out
by individuals who would sell both subsidized and non-subsidized inputs. The
Egyptian Agricultural Organization provides credit for stock purchase for such
stores and supplies agricultural inputs such as fertilizers.
Farm Machinery Service
4.18      Tractors and farm machinery will be owned by farmers or small groups
of farmers (including cooperatives) or individuals residing in the project
area and will work for farmers on a custom basis. Credit will be provided
through the Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit for purchase of the
equipment. Operators will have to successfully pass a course in tractor
operation using the implements required for preparation on the project area.
The course will be arranged and guided by ATB and will follow similar courses
already carried out. On successful completion of the course the Project Unit
will issue a license to operate in the area. A machinery specialist will be
part of the Project Unit staff to promote and organize custom services,
arrange courses and issue licenses, and to inspect workshop services.
Agricultural Credit
4.19      The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC)
through its affiliated Bank for Development of Agricultural Credit (BDAC) of
Alexandria will be responsible for providing credits to the project farmers.
Government will relend to PBDAC the equivalent of the amount allocated for
farm machinery under the project at an interest rate of 5%. The amount
equivalent in terms of Egyptian pounds will be repaid to the Government in no
more than ten equal installments after a grace period of five years. Project
funds for farm machinery will be on-lent by PBDAC through the BDAC of Alexandria
to cooperatives, groups of farmers or individuals. The Government will bear
the foreign exchange risk on all on-lent IDA funds. When groups of farmers or
individuals apply for a loan for purchase of farm machinery, they will provide
assurances that the machinery will be used for custom service in the project
area. Lending conditions for medium-term loans for farm machinery will
include an interest rate not less than 8% (spread for PBDAC 3%) and downpayment
of at least 10% of the capital cost for investment loan. Other conditions
will be that the loan will not exceed ten years with grace period not exceeding
one year. Because settlers in the project area will obtain land titles only
after repayment of land charges it is necessary that BDAC will accept as
collateral for medium-term loans a lien on the equipment financed together
with a certificate from the Project Unit that the applicant is a settler of
the project. Credits for purchase of cattle will be provided to the settlers
through the Animal Husbandry Fund of the Ministry of Land Reclamation or
through the BDAC of Alexandria under prevailing terms. The BDAC of Alexandria
will also provide medium-term credits to the settlers for construction of
stables and short-term credits for crop inputs. Assurances on the credit
arrangements and lending conditions for farm machinery were obtained at
negotiations.



- 40 -
Community Development
4.20      Settler selection and recruitment will be planned and conducted by
the Ministry of Land Reclamation. Staff of this Ministry will work closely
with Governorate officials in each recruitment area to plan and supervise
transportation, briefing and welfare arrangements for the installation of
settlers and their families in the project area. During the reclamation period
and for the first three years of settlement, settlers and their families will
receive food rations under arrangements of the World Food Program with the
Government of Egypt.
4.21      After the arrival of settlers, the Community Development Section of
the Project Unit will have the responsibility for all community activities
in the project area including the development of an elective system of local
Government in the villages. The Community Development Section will also be
responsible for running the community development centers, women's training
and day-care programs, and youth and vocational training centers, for small
business activities (especially poultry and small stock production and market-
ing) and for health and population education. For these and related activities,
the Section will employ social workers (five at each main village) who will
be resident at each main village and will be provided with housing and
transport to visit the satellite villages. Most of the community development
activities will be carried out through selected village workers or "rural
guides". The social workers will form part of strong development teams,
concentrated at the main village, which will include agricultural extension-
ists, health workers and school teachers. They will endeavor to establish
close working relations with the members of these teams as there are programs
such as adult education, health care, environmental sanitation, family plan-
ning, etc., which require close collaboration between social workers and
education and health staff.
4.22      Village Councils, the same as those operating in existing villages
all over the country under the Ministry of Local Government, will be estab-
lished in each satellite and main village with the assistance of the Community
Development Section. The Village Council will be a representative committee
of all the community making up the village, and its responsibilities will
mainly be those of the development and maintenance of public utilities such as
community buildings, village roads and water and electricity supply systems.
To this effect, Village Councils will be empowered to impose a community levy,
similar to that under the local Government system. Steps will be taken after
some years of project operation to establish a representative body of the
settlers at the level of the project on the lines of the "Markaz Council"
under the local Government system.  Members of this body will participate in
the Regional Implementation Committee of the Project Unit to express settlers'
views.
Marketing of Project Output
4.23      A proportion of the wheat, maize, beans and milk produced in the
project will be consumed by the farm families themselves, along with some
vegetables. The balance of wheat, maize and beans will enter commercial



- 41 -
channels through local cooperatives or private merchants, and no difficulties
are foreseen with demand since Egypt is already a heavy importer of all
three commodities. There would be competition for milk between the SICLAM
plant of the Misr Milk and Food Company (MMFC) and local merchants. The
MMFC would provide staff to operate the main milk chilling center for the
project area, and would contract with private individuals on a bonus incentive
basis to operate the milk collection point in each village.   Of the milk
produced in the project area, some proportion will be retailed in liquid
form, while the balance will be processed mainly into white cheese and
yoghurt.
4.24      It is the Government's intention to set up a sugar beet processing
plant in the vicinity of the project. Farmers would be free to choose if they
wish to enter into contracts with the Sugar Company to supply the factory with
beet. If they did choose to produce beet, under a pricing system that allowed
incentive scales for quality and sugar content, they would likely have to
accept close supervision of beet growing operations by the Sugar Company,
which would provide key inputs required, such as seeds and plant protection
chemicals. The Company would also arrange for transportation of beet from
collecting points in the villages to the processing plant. Dried beet pulp
from the factory would be available as a livestock feed in the region.
4.25      Sunflower from the project will likely be processed at a factory
near Alexandria which currently handles production from the nearby areas and
has plans to expand its processing capacity. Farmers will cooperate together
in hiring transportation to the processing plant.
4.26      Potatoes and onions for export could be handled by the para-statal
Nile Company which is expanding its facilities in Alexandria, or by private
sector companies whose activities have been growing in recent years. For
domestic consumption, farmers would arrange among themselves to hire
transportation to the vegetable wholesale market in Alexandria where daily
sales by auction take place. A regular flow of vegetables to market in
Alexandria has already developed from other reclaimed lands close to the
project area, and no difficulties are foreseen in the marketing of vegetables.
The project will provide technical assistance to those farmers wishing to
form marketing associations or cooperatives to develop further outlets for
their produce.
4.27      A new abbatoir for the city of Alexandria is to be constructed
30-40 km from the project area. For farmers wishing to use this channel
for marketing their meat production, livestock will be taken to the abbatoir
either on the hoof or by truck. A system of fees will cover the services
provided by the slaughterhouse, farmers will probably be paid on the basis
of liveweight of the animals, and meat will be marketed in Alexandria or
other localities by private butchers dealing with the abbatoir.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.28      There will be special staff in the Project Unit to carry out
monitoring and evaluation activities who will be assisted where necessary by



- 42 -
consultants for specialized areas such as designing a base line study,
designing the monitoring and evaluation systems and setting them up. The
Engineering Section will be responsible for the monitoring of the irrigation
and drainage requirements, the efficiency of irrigation and drainage systems,
the field efficiency of irrigation and the quality of water used for irriga-
tion.  The Agricultural Section will collect data and observations from the
agricultural staff and, from time to time, they will conduct their own surveys
where needed. They will be particularly concerned with progress in crop
production, performance of new varieties, disease control, livestock produc-
tion, farm machinery operation and availability of agricultural credit and
inputs. The Community Development Section will collect data on the implementa-
tion of the settlement program and in particular on the degree to which needs
of settlers for social facilities, health and vocational education were being
met, on progress in setting up village councils, and any problems with mainte-
nance of communal facilities and on the employment situation in the project
villages. The three sections will prepare annual reports on all these matters
for the Director General of the Project Unit and the Regional Implementation
Committee, a copy of which will be sent to IDA. Where necessary, the annual
reports will be supplemented by special studies to investigate particular
topics in greater depth. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above monitoring and evaluation activities will be carried out by the Project
Unit and that annual monitoring reports will be sent to IDA at regular inter-
vals. Assurances were also obtained that the Project Unit will prepare
a completion report to be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the
closing date of the Project.
Implementation of Bilharzia Control Program
4.29      The Ministry of Health will be responsible for planning, executing
and evaluating the Bilharzia Control Program. The program will be operated
in the same manner and under the same management as the ongoing programs. The
application of molluscicide will be carried out by snail control units of the
Ministry of Health, which will also undertake bioassay monitoring of treated
waters and analysis of water samples for active molluscicide. The amount
of molluscicide to be applied will be determined on the basis of synoptic
data on canal discharge provided by the Ministry of Irrigation. The chemo-
therapeutic treatment and follow up of all infected persons will be carried
out by qualified personnel of the health centers and units throughout the
area, using oral drugs, acceptable to the Ministry of Health and IDA.
The special assessment unit established by the Ministry of Health will have
the responsibility for the overall supervision and evaluation of the program.
Particular emphasis will be given to the epidemiological evaluation which
will be carried out by the already established evaluation teams and will
include estimates of incidence and intensity of infection. In order to obtain
appropriate information on prevalence of different age groups, computer data
banking will be undertaken. The Ministry of Health will prepare and submit
to IDA a Plan of Operation which will stipulate the implementation and
monitoring and evaluation of mollusciciding and chemotherapeutical treatment.
At all times, the Ministry of Health will employ an adequately qualified and
experienced program director. After completion of the consolidation phase,



- 43 -
the Ministry of Health will apply with its own resources appropriate main-
tenance control measures on a continuing basis which will include continuing
monitoring and treatment of infected cases and molluscicidal operations when
and where required. Assurances on all the above were obtained at nego-
tiations.
Project Risks
4.30      The major risk of this project is that the management and organiza-
tional arrangements will not be adequate to design and execute on time a
project of this size and complexity, as well as to coordinate the work of all
the other organizations involved. Experience on other projects in Egypt has
shown that the major causes of delays on project execution are slowness in
taking decisions, particularly over key matters like the award of contracts,
poor supervision of contractors, inadequacies of staffing and untimely avail-
ability of local funding. The project has been designed as far as possible to
take these factors into account, by staging the development of the area and
adopting a simple irrigation design and by investing in advance engineering to
accelerate the start of construction. Organizational arrangements proposed
for the project also aim at providing the strong leadership and coordination
needed to overcome possible sources of delays. Assurances were also obtained
as to timely availability of local funding (paragraph 3.56).
4.31      The collaboration of the Ministry of Irrigation is essential to
ensure that the construction of project works will take place on schedule,
and that project irrigation and drainage structures will be well maintained
throughout the system. Because of the lengthy chain of structures involved in
supplying irrigation water to the area, and the rehabilitation works which
must be undertaken before the project can obtain water (para 3.11), there is a
risk that either the works may not be completed in time, or that weak manage-
ment of the system may result in insufficient water becoming available. In an
endeavour to reduce the first risk, assurances were obtained from the Ministry
of Irrigation regarding completion of works, and the second risk is dealt with
by closely involving the Ministry of Irrigation with the project implementation
through the proposed Central Coordination Committee (para. 4.02). This is
also expected to improve maintenance of irrigation and drainage works.
4.32      The possibility that agricultural production may not increase as
rapidly as projected is another risk of the project that would decrease its
economic and financial viability. This might arise through trace element
problems in soils, through slow adaptation of farmers to the new conditions or
from inadequate land preparation. In order to minimise these risks a compre-
hensive research and field trials program was started in September 1979 to
study likely soils and agricultural problems and provide data that would allow
management to adapt development methods or cropping patterns in a timely
fashion. In addition, the project will provide a particularly heavy training
program for farmers, with one settler in four receiving intensive training as
a farmer extension leader. This will be backed up by a full extension and
research service provided through the Project Unit.



- 44 -
V. PRODUCTION, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Agricultural Production
5.01      Agricultural production will result from the establishment of
cropping and livestock enterprises designed to produce cash income and a
considerable proportion of family food requirements.
Crop Production
5.02       (a)  Cropping Pattern.  While farmers will be free to select their
cropping pattern, once a sugar industry was established in the project area
(the subject of further studies) sugar beet would likely be the major winter
crop. Berseem will be the next major winter crop traditionally required to
provide high protein feed as the basis for animal production and to improve
soil conditions in the rotation. Potatos and onions will be grown in view of
the proximity to Alexandria markets and the possibility of exporting some of
the produce. Small quantities of wheat and fava beans will be grown mainly
for home consumption and green peas will be grown for the Alexandria market.
Except for sugar beet, which has been subject to a long series of trials in
Egypt on similar soils, all crops are already grown in the area.
5.03      Summer crops are given over to maize for cash sale and consumption,
fodder maize to provide livestock feed during the summer, and sunflower for
cash. Sunflower is not commonly grown in the area, but it is as profitable as
maize, requires low labor and would help reduce imports of vegetable oil.
Beekeeping would be carried out to assist pollination at one hive per feddan
of sunflower. Some small area of summer vegetables would be grown and water-
melon is used as an example. For the reasons explained in para. 5.16 two
cropping patterns have been considered for the project, one with sugar beet
and one without (Annex 1, Table 4). In both patterns the cropping intensity
is 200%. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that farmers in the project
area will be allowed to choose freely the crops they will grow in their farms
subject only to certain restrictions imposed for diseases control and scarcity
of water.
5.04       (b)  Yields.  In general, final yields would be slightly higher
than the present national average. Considering the substantial efforts now
starting up in crop research and the high input in training and extension in
this project, yields are not considered optimistic for 12 years hence.
Because sugar beet is a new crop in Egypt, a very conservative yield of 16
tons per feddan at full development was considered. It should be noticed that
the average yield obtained from the first year in the ongoing field trials was
22.7 tons per feddan.
5.05      Although experience in the area has shown that soils can be readily
leached and reclaimed before settlers begin cropping, it is assumed that
vegetable crops would not be grown for the first several years and that in the
beginning yields would be low. Several years will be needed to build up soil
fertility and for settlers to become accustomed to soil and climatic conditions.



- 45 -
5.06       (c)  Production.  Of the root crops predominant in the winter, sugar
beet will yield 128,000 tons at full development, followed by 30,000 tons of
onions and 20,000 tons of potatoes. Two thousand tons of peas, 1,800 tons of
wheat and 1,500 tons of fava bean will complete the winter crop production.
Summer crops in the project will produce 14,400 tons of maize grain, 8,000 tons
of sunflower and 20,000 tons of watermelon, at full development.
Animal Production
5.07       (a)  Type and Numbers of Livestock.  Livestock production will be
dominated at full development by Baladi X Friesian dairy cattle. Production
of milk and meat from buffalo will supplement cattle production but be rela-
tively minor by full development. Goats also will make an important contribu-
tion at the beginning but a minor one at full development when cross-bred cows
will dominate. Goats are not common in new lands but will provide signi-
ficant income early in the project and as a "bank" will allow for more
convenient sales when cash was required.
5.08      Early and regular meat production will be provided by rabbits.
Rabbit keeping is common in new lands but improved breeds will be introduced
to increase production. As with rabbits, new local poultry breeds will
also be adopted. It is assumed the project will support 7,600 Baladi X
Friesian adults and their followers, 2,400 buffalo and 3,200 adult goats
and followers. Nine thousand mature female rabbits and 100,000 hens will be
kept annually. Eight thousand beehives will be located in the project
area.
5.09       (b)  Yields.  As Friesian crossing with Baladi cattle takes effect,
milk yields would increase from 600 to 2,400 Kg per lactation and meat produc-
tion per adult would increase from about 60 Kg liveweight to 200 Kg liveweight
at full development. Buffalo milk yields would increase from 1,000 Kg to
1,800 Kg per lactation under the influence of crossing with improved stock
and better nutrition. Meat would increase from about 20 Kg to 100 Kg per
year.   Selected Zariby goats would yield about 300 Kg milk per year and
produce about 16 Kg meat liveweight. Rabbits would yield about 75 Kg live-
weight per year per farm and poultry about 20 Kg meat liveweight and 1,800
eggs per year per farm. Beekeeping operations would yield 90 Kg honey/farm.
5.10       (c)  Production.  About 14,500 tons of milk will be produced per
year at full development, mostly from Baladi X Friesian cattle (81%). At full
development a total of about 2,200 tons liveweight meat will be produced, 70%
being from Baladi X Friesians. Poultry will produce about 7.5 million eggs
and honey production will amount to about 140 tons (Annex 1, Table 4).
Markets and Prices
5.11      As discussed previously (Chapters II, IV) no difficulties are
foreseen with marketing of project outputs. Wheat, beans, maize, sugar from
sugar beet, oil from sunflower, milk and meat would substitute for imports. A
proportion of the potatoes and onions would be exported, and the remainder
would be sold domestically, along with other vegetable production from the



- 46 -
project, to help meet the continuously growing demand in Egypt for vegetables.
Prices used for financial and economic analysis are outlined in Annex 1,
Table 5.
Beneficiaries and Repayment Capacity
5.12      The main beneficiaries of the project will be the 4,000 farm
families which will settle on the newly reclaimed land, each receiving a farm
unit of 6 feddans. Settlers will be selected from among applicants currently
employed as agricultural laborers or cultivating (as either owners or tenants)
small holdings up to a maximum of 2 feddans in size. In their current occupa-
tions, the incomes of these families are likely to fall within the range of LE
40 - LE 130 per capita. For comparison, the Absolute Poverty level of income
in rural Egypt is estimated to be LE 60 - LE 70 per capita and the Relative
Poverty level of income LE 50 - LE 60 per capita. With the project, incomes
for the settler families are projected to rise as outlined in Annex 1,
Table 7. Further calculations of project rent and indices of rent and cost
recovery are shown in Annex 1, Table 8.
5.13      Existing legislation provides for the recovery of land reclamation
investment costs without interest from settlers over a period of 25 years.
Full recovery of irrigation and drainage maintenance costs within the project
area through an annual charge, together with recovery of capital costs of land
development and settler's house (without interest), would result in a rent
recovery index of 40%, which is judged to be adequate in this case. For
village water supply, electricity and telecommunications, normal user
charges will be applied. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
Government will recover from settlers the actual annual cost of maintenance
of irrigation and drainage works within the project area, together with the
capital costs of land development and the settler's house over a period of
25 years. There would be a three year grace period. It was also agreed
that Government will take into consideration in the assessment of land tax
to be collected from settlers the recovery of the O&M cost of the main
irrigation and drainage facilities of the project.
Economic Rate of Return
5.14      The project, as most land reclamation projects, is characterized by
a relatively slow improvement in reclaimed soils and thus a slow buildup in
agricultural production. It is also a settlement project i.e. the project
will establish 20 new villages, each of which will, in time, evolve into a com-
plete local economy with service facilities, and the range of non-agricultural
activities characteristic of an agricultural community. In addition, Govern-
ment plans are well advanced to construct a major new city in the region,
whose southern boundary will be immediately adjacent to the project area. The
New Ameriya City, scheduled to have a population of 150,000 by 1990 and
500,000 by 2000, will thus have a well-developed agricultural base in its
immediate surrounds, in contrast to other major new cities being established
in desert areas of Egypt. In the rate of return calculations which follow, no
account is taken of the secondary or multiplier effects arising from the
setting up of completely new economies. The benefit estimates for the project



- 47 -
are confined to the valuation at economic prices of the crops and livestock
products which will emerge from the reclaimed lands area (Annex 1, Table 6).
The cost estimates are made for two basic cases: for the first case "social
costs" are excluded, and for the second case "social costs" are included. In
the case where social costs are included, the rate of return arises from
comparing all project costs with the benefits which arise solely from agricul-
tural production. The "social costs" excluded in the first case comprise
investments needed in buildings for craft and vocational centers, schools,
health facilities, police and fire stations and post offices; houses for
school teachers and health workers; village water supply; village electricity,
telecommunications and streets. The annual operation and maintenance costs
associated with the investments listed are also excluded. Approximately 50%
of the investments excluded are for the buildings, 14% for the houses for
teachers/health workers, and 18% for village water supply. The rationale for
excluding these "social costs" is that without the project these costs would
have to be incurred elsewhere in Egypt over the next decade, wherever the
population was growing and requiring the new facilities represented. An
alternative way of regarding the exclusion is to say that the investments have
"social benefits" at least equal to their costs, which is equivalent to
dropping them out of the rate of return calculations.
5.15      The rates of return reported below also depend on a large number
of assumptions, which are displayed in the project file. These include
estimated crop yields, livestock productivity, physical levels of agricultural
inputs, the phasing of agricultural production over time (with no production
for the first four years of the project, and full production reached only in
the thirteenth year of implementation), and prices for outputs and inputs.
The project has also been debited with estimated losses of Bedouin families
who currently obtain some small amount of rainfed barley and sparse livestock
grazing from the proposed project area.   Of particular interest is the cost
of electricity for the pumping of irrigation water in the main canal to raise
it through lifts of 43 and 55 metres. This electricity is subsidized to the
user in Egypt at a cost of 9 milliemes per KWh. The economic cost is, however,
substantially higher. For a new thermal power station the marginal cost of
electricity to the consumer is estimated to be approximately 50 milliemes per
KWh. In the case of this project, which would use a relatively high proportion
of off-peak hydro-power, an economic cost of 35 milliemes has been used. In
the sensitivity analysis the solution has been tested at 45 and 50 milliemes.
The prices for outputs and inputs are outlined in Annex 1, Table 5. With
the exception of watermelon, cabbage, cauliflower, milk and eggs, all economic
output prices are based on international projections for the 1985/1990 period,
adjusted to the farmgate to account for handling, freight and processing
costs. A similar basis applies for fertilizers, animal feed concentrate, most
seeds, and machinery costs. Economic prices adopted for the three vegetables
mentioned are based on wholesale prices in local markets over the past five
years, suitably adjusted to the farmgate. For milk, the economic price
reflects the cost of reconstituting milk from imported skim milk powder and
anhydrous milk fat,, at 1980 prices. A premium of 20% is added to this re-
constituted milk price to reflect local preferences for the fresh product.
Prices for eggs and for green berseem and maize for animal fodder are based on
the local market. For the base case, agricultural labor is valued at a price



- 48 -
of LE 0.60 per day, which is about 60% of the prevailing average wage.
Sensitivity analysis shows that if the market wage rate were to be used, the
rate of return would fall by about one percentage point.
5.16      The Government plans to develop a sugar beet industry in the area,
which would involve settlers putting about one-third of their farms into
sugar beet during the winter cropping season. Since there is an element of
uncertainty about when a new beet processing plant would be established in
the vicinity, the agricultural analysis of the project has also been done for
the alternative cropping pattern which does not include sugar beet. Because
of uncertainties about the date at which sugar beet may be introduced into the
rotation the base case analysis is made on the rotation without sugar beet, in
which the proportion of wheat, fodder crops and winter vegetables is increased
to replace sugar beet. The rates of return for the base case and for the case
with sugar beet are 10.8% and 9.6% respectively when the investment costs of
settlers' houses are included. When all "social costs" are included the rates
of return are 9.2% and 8.2% respectively. Since a final decision about the
cropping pattern would not need to be taken until 1983, it is proposed that a
more detailed study would be conducted not later than the end of 1982, to
decide whether or not sugar beet is the more desirable alternative and whether
or not to invest in a beet processing plant. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that such a study would be carried out in time.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.17      Sensitivity analysis was performed, with "social costs" excluded,
for the cropping pattern without sugar beet. The results are presented
below:
Rates of Return (%)
Base case (electricity 35 mils/KWh, labor
valued at 60% of market wage, settlers' houses included)             10.8
Agricultural labor valued at market wage                                9.9
Value of Vegetables - up 20%                                           12.5
- down 20%                                        9.0
Electricity valued at:  45 mils/KWh                                    10.3
50 mils/KWh                                 10.0
Fertilizer costs up 20%                                                10.5
Yields of potatoes/onions down 25%                                      9.6
Net farm benefits lagged one year                                       9.8
5.18      The assumptions made in the analysis are conservative.  If less
conservative figures are used the rate of return would increase considerably.
For example, an extraction rate of 13% sugar from sugar beet has been assumed,
whereas a higher extraction rate may be achieved in practice. If the extrac-
tion rate were raised to 14%, and sugar beet yields were 20% higher than
assumed, this would raise the rate of return of the sugar beet option by 0.8%.
Similarly, with the amount of extension and training of farmers envisaged in
the project, it should be possible to produce potatoes and onions of much
higher quality than in other areas of Egypt. If a similar improvement took



- 49 -
place in the marketing of these two crops, it should be possible to raise to
50% the proportion exported, instead of the 25% assumed in the analysis. This
would raise the rate of return by 0.9%. Increases in the real prices of
vegetables over time can be envisaged in Egypt, as the growing population
presses on available land, whereas constant 1980 prices have been assumed.
With plausible relaxation of several conservative assumptions, the rate of
return could rise to over 13%. With the full costs of settler housing debited
against the project, the rate of return would be between 12% and 13%, its
exact level depending upon assumptions made about the value of housing stock
being vacated in their present villages by those selected to be settlers.
5.19      The project would create full time employment for an additional
8,500 persons at an investment cost of LE 5,500 per job. This compares
with the estimated capital cost for additional employment in the urban
sector of LE 9,000 per job. The majority of the beneficiaries would be
selected from among persons with no land or very small amounts of land in
the traditional rural sector, and would therefore be from the lower-income
groups of society.
Justification of the Bilharzia Control Program
5.20      In line with the Bank's policy on health programs (as components of
other programs), the justification of the Bilharzia Control Program is based
on qualitatively determined benefits. There are some measurable impacts of
the ongoing bilharzia programs, such as reduction in snail population affect-
ing transmission and reduction in overall prevalence and intensity of infec-
tion. By focusing evaluation efforts on children, more sensitive measurement
of the program's impact would be obtained. These impacts are being determined
through the established monitoring system. It is not possible to assess
quantitatively economic benefits of the disease control, such as increase in
work productivity of the infected population, because of the difficulty of
isolating the specific impact of the Bilharzia Control Program from other
health programs.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
(a) the Ministry of Irrigation will complete before December 31, 1983,
all the works necessary to secure the supply of water required for
the irrigation of the project area (para. 3.11);
(b) the Government will take the action required to ensure the conclu-
sion of the loan from the African Development Fund within six months
from the date of the Development Credit Agreement for financing the
bilharzia control component of the project or provide, within such
period with alternative financing arrangements (para. 3.56);



- 50 -
(c) a Regional Implementation Committee with representatives from
the regional offices of the implementing agencies who are respon-
sible for the project will be established before December 31, 1981
(para. 4.06);
(d) the Government and the Principal Bank for Development and Agricul-
tural Credit will apply the lending conditions for medium-term loans
for farm machinery described in para. 4.19;
(e) the Government will recover from settlers: (i) the annual main-
tenance cost of the irrigation and drainage facilities within the
project area; and (ii) the full capital cost of land reclamation
works and settlers' houses in the project area over a period of not
more than 25 years after a grace period of three cultivation years,
and will take into consideration in the assessment of the Land Tax
to be collected from settlers in the project area the recovery of
the O&M cost of the main irrigation and drainage facilities of the
project (para. 5.13); and
(f) the Ministry of Land Reclamation will complete by December 31,
1982, a revision of existing studies regarding the cropping pattern
for the project area with a view to determine the pattern most
economically advantageous and the desirability of sugar beet being
included and take appropriate steps for the implementation of its
recommendations after exchanging views with IDA on the findings of
such revision (para. 5.16).
6.02      Effectiveness of the credit will be conditioned on:
(a) the award by the Ministry of Irrigation of the contract for the
rehabilitation and repair of the Nasr Canal up to km 27 (para.
3.12);
(b)  the establishment by the Ministry of Land Reclamation of the Project
Unit and the appointment of its Director General and the heads of
the Engineering and Agricultural Sections (para. 4.05).
6.03      Agreement having been reached on the above conditions the proposed
project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDRs 60.9 million (US$80 million
equivalent) to the Arab Republic of Egypt on standard terms.



o                   0        '                  0-        0                               *' H               '  0      ' '       '''*            I    ''*'''0'00o   C
0000-   0        'H'oH  'H    '('H                              HO         "''oOHO            o'O      000'(I          H         000000H00
OH     000                           00-                   0-          0-H         00-                00-    H00H0 I -      OH'    H.HH'0H,'   OOo
0-     00                                HO (H      OH                 H-H    0'Ho'H'0O.       HO0O000HO0 HOP"'
H-OH-Hr
OoH  H       0o'                H"    000000-Ho-.               0-00000000000  0.
-                      -  H   0                                 "H      H   H                   H H  Ho-'-- 000         00H0'OH'000000O          0
*          F'  F' OH  0  H  H           H  000  H  H  HOP'                               (0'O     0  0.0                00' H  H  OHO  H   H  '0           HHH H
H      O H                      0100000000    0 HOP'  0000-H    H  H                                    OoO   HO'P'o0        0  Hoo' H  HOP'  H
000   000                         0O                                             H                  H   OOOHO   0-
OH        H          H  OH H                                           00  H   -  HO'                 on H   OH  -        0' -000   HjOO
oH  0  H  H-               H 0       HO                                HO -        '-H               '--H 0     H  H          H-H
00  'HHH            Ho'                0'OHO        OH-  0       HH                  H.'-         'H         Ho--     HO    0,0000  0
HO     H                             00                 0000 H       HH   H        HH                 OH                      HH     00O    H
H-H    H         H   0  HH           HO                                H           HP'                       H-OH             HH       H
ooo             HO      H'-'      H0'HH
V             O0                                H OH  0      0 H          0 H                 H H    000 0            H 00  '0       0-
OH  0  HOC OH 0  OH     H                H000-00000000OH                               0  00 0  0         0  00 0  00000          000-000-00000000000000
H0-                  (00000                0-0 0' OHOOOo,o      0  0000  oOHO    OOH-0'0000
OH HOH 00 0  0     0-              0- 00 00       '  OO0-.                      00-000000          HO' 0-00H'00,o0'-00    (HO' 00   00-0-00000-00000-
0'"'                   0-                 0-00                                                                                   '00                               O
OH  (H  OHO 0  CoO      00  OH 0  0      H' ,oHH 0                       0  000       0  00 OH 00       0- 00 OH 00000           00 H0HOOOH0000000-'o0
0   00 (HO OH 00-0      0   0  00 H      0  HO H                          0  000      0- 000000  H'-'     0  0000  000-0-0-       0- HO' OH OH'(H0-00OH000H0        00      H F'IO0
0   'o .o00
0-  0- 0-OH   000       H   OH 0  0      00 000 0000    oCCO              0  000      0- 00 0  000    (H 00 OH  00000             0OH0000000000 00 OooOo            H         
0   00 0000  HOC        00  0  H  0-      H  oHO                          H  OHoH'    (H 000   00         00000   00000           0  00 0- H-00-0-H'0--0-oo        00
00  H  (HOC  0-0-0      H   00 00        0  000(0   00000                 0  000       00000   0(H        0  0-000  0,000-00      OH 0000000-0' 00000000            0         0H
00 ooo   CoO       (0  0  (H 0-   OH 0000   (H H'-  0  00-0-          H  OHOO'    OH HOC   00        (H  HO 00  000000       00 0000  00000-H00WoOOo            -      H
0-0-00000               0                H  HO' 0-  00-   HOoO                         0  000   0         0  000   00000          00 OHO' H  O0-0000000000
0   0  0-000  0  0      H                00 0000   0000-op                             00 000   0         00 0-OH   00000-        0  H000  OCOH00000(HOH0-          0
O   00 OH 0  0  00      0                0  CoO CoOHOHo H                              o  oH  0  0        0  0-H O'00o00O'0-      0- 0000  00-00.000000000-0
0   0      0      0     00               00 0   0-                                                                                0  0   0                   0      H
0   H  000-  000        H   0  0  0      0- 0-0 0                        0  000       0- OH 0  OHo        HoCo   00000            0  0-0,0  00-0-0  OOoOHoH
-   00 00-0  000-       0   0  00 H      0       0-                      00 000        0  0000  000       o0-00-0-00-00           OH ooOHoCOO   OoCOHo0-            o
00  0  HO 0  0-00-      0   (H  0  0     0  oO  00                       00 00H        0- 000 H  00      ,Ho0-0000HHOH            0  00 0- o(HOH  00-00-OH          0- 0-
H   00     0      0     0-               0- (000   0                                                                              0- 0-00-   00              0-    01
0  0  0- o      0  0000   00-   oooo             0  000       (0000-  00        00 000-  00000           0  0000  000000000-0(0
. 0 0 0....0
0-  0000  0  000 0      0-  0  -  H      0- 0 0- 0  0  0   0  0- 0 0     0  0 0 0      (0 0 0 0 '0 0      0- . - 0- 0  0- --0 0- 0-  OOOOHOOOOHOOOOOO 0           0
0   00000000            0-  0  0  0      Ho 00' 0   00 0   0  000        (H  00-H      H  00 H  00        0  000 0  Co0-o0-       0- Ho o  0-00000-0-00-H
H - 'H
0-  0                   0-  0            0-          0                   0             0                                                                            HOP'
00
0-  0                   00  0            0           0                   0             H                  00                                                        0H 0             0-00



- 52 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                 A-1NEX 1
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                              Table 2
(WEST NUBARIYA)
List of Project Equipment!'
COST    LE      mil
Item                        Number    Unit            Local         IForeign          Total
Pricei
LE
A   FARM MACHINERY
- Wheel Tractors (60-65 HP)       150          6,000        0.080             0.820          0.900
- Trailers (4 tons)                42          1,900        0.040             0.040          0.080
Implement Sets                  Sum                       0.160            0.210           0.370
Special machinery               Sum                         -               0.010          0.010
Threshers (600 Kg/hour)          40          2,000        0.010             0.070          0.080
Spare parts for above           Sum                       0.020             0.260          0.280
Sub total                                         0.310            1.410          1.720
B1  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMFNT
- Hydraulic Excavators (3/4 m3)    2          55,000        0.010             0.100          0.110
- Bulldozers (125 HP)                2        45,000        0.010             0.080          0.090
- Motor Graders                      2        45,000        0.010             0.080          0.090
- Mobile Crane                       1        50,000           -              0.050          0.050
- Equipment for Repair Centers  Sum                         0.010             0.110          0.120
Spare parts for above           Sum                       0.010            0.060           0.070
Sub total                                         0.050            0.480          0.530
C   VEHICLES
- Station Wagons                    11         5,000           -              0.055          0.055
- Pick-Ups( i>ht)                  25          5,000        0.020             0.105          0.125
- Pick-Ups (3/4 ton)                4          6,000           -              0.024          0.024
- Vans                               2         6,500           -              0.013          0.013
- Trucks (7 tons)                   2         15,000           -              0.030          0.030
- Buses                              2        25,000        0.010             0.040          0.050
- Ambulances                        2         15,000           _              0.030          0.030
- Motorcycles                      66            600           -              0.039          0.039
- Spare Parts for above           Sum                       0.010             0.070          0.080
Sub total                                         0.040            0.400          0.446
D   BUILDING EQUIPMENT                                                     l
- Appliances for staff hmuses   Sum, 0.050                                    0.030          0.080
- Equipment for Schools           Sum                       0.140             0.175      I   0.315
- Equipment for Health Centers  Sum                         0.014             0.062          0.076
- Equipment for soil laboratry  Sum                         0.001             0.006          0.007
- Appliances for Women and                                l              i
Youth Centers                   Sum                       0.038             0.002          0.040
- Equipment forMilk Centers       Sum                       0.006             0.008          0.014
- Appliances for offices,
stores & other buildings        Sum                       0.011             0.021          0.032
Sub total                                         0.260            0.304          0.564
E   OFFICE AND
LABORATORY EQUIaMENT                                      0.010            0.110           0.120
TOTAL                                             0.670            2.709          3.379
Physical Contingencies                              0i 0060              0.271           0.331
GRAND TOTAL                  I                          0.730             2.980          3.710
1/ Excluding equipment for bilharzia control
May 1980



- 53 -
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                ANNEX 1
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                             Table 3
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
IBRD Fiscal Year                For                       For
And Quarter              Reclamation               Bilharzia               Total
Works                   Control
----------------------------US$ million----------------------------
FY 1980
March 31, 1980                     0.3                       -                    0.3
June 30, 1980                      0.6                       -                    0.6
FY 1981
September 30, 1980                 0.9                       -                    0.9
December 31, 1980                  1.0 1/                    -                    1.0
March 31, 1981                     2.6                      0.9                   3.5
June 30, 1981                      4.2                      1.8                   6.0
FY 1982
September 30, 1981                5.8                       2.7                   8.5
December 31, 1981                  7.5                      3.7                  11.2
March 31, 1982                    10.8                      4.8                  15.6
June 30, 1982                     14.2                      6.0                  20.2
FY 1983
September 30, 1982               17.5                       7.2                  24.7
December 31, 1982                 20.9                      8.4                  29.3
March 31, 1983                    26.1                      9.8                  35.9
June 30, 1983                     31.4                     11.2                  42.6
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                36.7                     12.6                  49.3
December 31, 1983                 42.0                     14.0                  56.0
March 31, 1984                    46.4                     14.0                  60.4
June 30, 1984                     50.8                     14.0                  64.8
FY 1985
September 30, 1984               55.2                      14.0                  69.2
December 31, 1984                 59.7                     14.0                  73.7
March 31, 1985                    61.2                     14.0                  75.2
June 30, 1985                     62.7                     14.0                  76.7
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                64.2                     14.0                  78.2
December 31, 1985                 65.7                     14.0                  79.7
March 31, 1986                    65.9                     14.0                  79.9
June 30, 1986                     66.0                     14.0                  80.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
1/ To be financed under PPF arrangement.
May 1980



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (WEST NUBARIYA)
Suggested Cropping Patterns-Crop and Livestock Production at Full Development
Yield at Full Development
Percent Area                  Area (Feddans)                   tons/feddan                 Production (tons)
A.  CROPS           Alternative   Alternative   Alternative   Alternative   Alternative   Alternative   Alternative   Alternative
A              B               A              B               A              B               A               B
l.Winter Crops
Sugar Beet             -            33.3              -           8,000              -           16.0               -            128,000
Fodder Beet           4.2             -             1,000          -               16.0            -              16,000
Berseem              33.3           33.3            8,000         8,000            25.0          25.0            200,000         200,000
Onion                12.5           12.5            3,000         3,000            10.0          10.0             30,000          30,000
Wheat                 8.4            4.2            2,000         1,000             1.8           1.8              3,600           1,800
Fava Beans            4.2            4.2            1,000         1,000             1.5           1.5              1,500           1,500
Potato               12.5            8.3            3,000         2,000            10.0          10.0             30,000          20,000
Peas (Green)          8.3            4.2            2,000         1,000             2.0           2.0              4,000           2,000
Cauliflower           8.3             -             2,000          -                5.0            -              10,000            -
Cabbage               8.3             -             2,000          -                8.0            -              16,000
Sub-total        100.0           100.0          24,000        24,000
2.Summer Crops
Maize (Grain)        33.3           33.3            8,000         8,000             1.8           1.8             14,400          14,400
Maize(Fodder)        25.0           25.0            6,000         6,000            28.0          28.0            168,000         168,000
Sunflower           33.3            33.3           8,000          8,000             1.0           1.0              8,000           8,000
Watermelon            8.4            8.4            2,000         2,000            10.0          10.0             20,000          20,000
Sub-total        100.0           100.0          24,000        24,000
TOTAL            200.0           200.0          48,000        48,000
B. LIVESTOCK
Meat                                                                                                               2,200           2,200
Milk                                                                                                              14,600          14,600
Eggs                                                                                                                 3S0             350                  P
Honey                                                                                                                140             140
July 1980



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Prices for Farm Outputs and Inputs
Price for Financial  Price for Economic                                                  Price for Financial  Price for Economic
Analysis              Analysis                                                           Analysis              Analysis
Item                      Unit          LE       US$           LE      uS$                    Item                 Unit           LE       US$          LE       US$
Seeds                                                             _
Wheat                           metric ton        84      120         200       286            Wheat                     metric ton        100       143         240       343
Barley                               "            81      116          140      200            Barley                         "             97       139         168       240
Maize                                "             97     139          168       240           Maize                          "            116       166         202       289
Fava Bean                            "           140      200         275       393            Fava Bean                      '            165       236         330       472
Potato                               "            93      133          110       157           Potato                         "            320       458         320       458
Onion                                "            63       90           88       126           Onion                          "         5,000    7,150         5,000    7,150
Sugar Beet                    "                   15       21           28        40           Sugar Beet                               3,500    5,005         3,500    5,005
Sunflower                                        160      229         345       493            Sunflower                                   225       322         414       592
Green Pea                            "           124      177          154       220           Green Pea                      "            275       393         275       393
Watermelon                           "             67      96           67        96           Watermelon                     "         4,200    6,006         4,200    6,006
Cabbage                              "           102      146          102      146            Cabbage                        "         3,000    4,290         3.000    4,290
Cauliflower                                      137      196         137       196            Cauliflower                    "         3,000    4,290         3,000    4,290
Berseem                                    350       500          350       500
Meat-Cattle  (liveweight)                        900   1,287           500       715
-Goat    (tiveweight)            "           800   1,144          450       644           Machinery Costs
-Poultry (liveweight)            "         1,200   1,716          550       787           Diesel Fuel               1,000 litres       25        36          220       315
-Rabbit  (liveweight)                      1,200   1,716          550       787           Gasoline                                    110       157          258       369
Milk-Cow      (4% fat)                           140      200          120       172           Tractor hire (65 HP)        100 hours       300       429         410        586
-Buffalo (7/ fat)                            200      286         168       240           Threshing Contract              "           500       715          500       715
-Goat    (5% fat)                            160      229         135       193           Cultivation Contract          feddan          9        13           10        14      >
Honey                                            500      715          500       715
Eggs                               1,000          50       72           50        72
Fertilizers
Urea (46:0:0)                   metric ton        89      127          188       269
Ammonium Nitrate (31:0:0)                          59      84          127       182
Ammonium Sulphate (20.6:0:0)                      41       59           84       120
Calcium Nitrate (15.5:0:0)                         35      50           63        90
Triple Superphoaphate (0:45:0)                     79     113          161       230
Superphosphate (0:15:0)                           27       39           54        77
N                                    "           193      276         409       585
P205                                              176     252          358      512
Animal Feed ConcenLrate              "             38      54          120       172
Livestock Fodders
Sugar Beet Pulp (dried)                          110      157          110       157
Berseem (green)                                    15      21           15        21
Maize   (green)                                    10       14          10        14
May 1980
U- -



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
(LE '000)
1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994-2014
Benefits
Crops                                 -         -         -         -         -      1,666    4,348    6,479    9,018   11,586   14,035   15,413   15,853   16,029                 16,029
Livestock                             -         -         -         -         -        696    1,514    1,950    2,391         2,916     3,552     3,837    4,463    4,797           4,758
Total                                                        -              -      2,362    5.862    8,429   11,409   14,502   17,587   19,250   20,316   20,826                 20-787
Costs (A)"
Project Investment                  649    4,667    10,776   16,422    14,569        7,381        84       -          -        -         -          200      -          -           -
Farm Costs - Crops                    -         -         -         -         -        631    2,009    2,483    3,222        3,571    3,938    4,063    4,106    4,121              4,121
- Livestock               -         -         -         -         -        604    1,558    1,635    1,763    1,811          1,854     1,883     1,890    1,890          1 890
Energy      _-                                       -              -        7L8    1,677    1,677    1,677    1 677         1 677    1,677    1,677        1,677    1,677          1,677
Project a.and M.                      -         21        80       128       318       566       738       764        764       764       764        764       764       764           764
Bedouin Lossas                        -         -          9         9        17        17        17         17        17        1/        17         17        17        17            17
Sugar Beet Factory                    -         -         -         -      8,000    9,000       -         -           -        -         -         -          _         -           -
Total                             649    4,688   10.865   16,559   23,692   19,876    6,083    6,576    7-443    7.-840    8.250    8.604    8-454    8-469                       8.64
Costs (B)-                                                                                                                                                                                4/
Project Investment                  649    5,950    13,230   19,780   17,403    8,199             84       -          -        -         -          410      -          -
Energy                                -         -         -         -        817    1,736      1,765     1,765     1,765     1,765     1,765      1,765     1,765     1,765         1,765
Project 0 and M                       -         21        o0       128       354       640       849       875       8/         o75       875       o75       875        875          U75
Others (as in (A))                          -              9         9    8,380   11,461    494    4,981    5,002    5,399             5.809    5.963    6,013    6,028             6,02R
Total                            649    5,971   13.319   19,917   26,954   22,036    7492    7,621    7.642    8.039    8.449    92013    8 Q 3.    8,668                       8&6Sh
1/  Investment, Energy and Project O.and M. costs exclude "social costs," viz , schools, health facilities, vocational centers, police and fire stations
and post offices, houses for school teachers and health workers, village water supply, village electricity and telecormnunications.
2/  Investment, Energy and Project O.and M. costs include "social costs."
3/  Investment stream includes replacement costs of 200 in 1991, 290 (1996), 280 (1997), 1,500 (2005), 290 (2008) and 280 (2013)
4/  Investment stream includes replacement costs of 410 in 1991, 290 (1996), 1,120 (1997), 1,710 (2005), 290 (2008) and 1,120 (2013).
May 1980



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NElW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA.'
Farm Model (6 feds.)-Income and Expenditure Flows
(Amounts in Constant LE of lqgB)
------------------------------_______------ Devrl opmcnt Years --------------------------------------
1           2            3            4                         6 6          7                                      I81-
Inflow
Value of Suhsistence Produ-tion 1/                                221          221          221         221          221          221          221          221          221          221
Marketed - Wheat                                                  -            -             29           34           21           29           34           39           38           38
- Beans                                                   3          l'           24            6           13           20           24           28           28           28
- Sulear Beet                                          240          270          309          354          350          420          456          480          480          480
- Onion                                                -            195          199          378          435          4 73         473          473          473          473
- Potato                                               -            -             93          140          37?          465          465          465          465          465
- Peas                                                              -             19           27           40           52           62           62           62           62
- Maize                                                  19          58           97          155          211          252          252          252          252          252
- Sunflower                                             96          129          160         2308          240          288          320          320          320          320
- Watermelon                                            -           -            134          201          268          335          335          335          335          335
- Milk                                                  93          118          124          145          201          259          356          378          378          378
M- eat                                                 102          108          130          134          266          214          241          322          297          322
- Other                                                121          211          296          2898         3 44         356          332          326          321          321
Cash Inconer 674                                                        1 060        1 57        20 7r0        790 18)          1       335           3,479       3 .449)       3,7
Farm Income                                                       9S         1, 281      1 741        7,291        31,24        3 194        3 ,571       3 700        3 67)        3,695
Short-Term Credit                                                 211          271          402         447          937           561          569          570          970          570
Mediim-Term Credi t                                               002          -            _     -            -            -            -            -                   -            -
WFP Food Rations                                                  113          113          113                                                                           -            -
Total Inflow                                              1,621        1,665         2, 2_738                3_561        3.945        4 13Q        4,270        4,240        4,265
Ootf low
Crop Costa                                                        211          271          402         447          957          5V            969          570          570         970
Livestock Costs                                                   179          181          170          194         198          202          203          203          203          203
Hired Labor                                                       -            -            -             3n           s0          85            95          101         101          101
Farm Expenditure                                                  911          452          972         671           798         848          966          R74          974          874
Short-Tsr- C re-lit RS-a-ment 2/                                  273          757          '7           4704        949         9I3 I1l                    403         69)           503
Medium-Term Credit Reoavment 2/                                   -            11"          11           110          110)         11)                                    -           -
Investment in livestock                                           034         -                         -            -            -            -            -            -            -
User Charges )J                                                   -            -             30           30           30           30           30           30           30          30
Project Cost Recovery 4/                                                       -            -           300          300          300          300          300          300          300
Balance                                                           47 2         q4        1.119        1J,54        1,768        2,064        2,342        2,463        2,433        2,459
1otal Outflow                                             1 ,621       1,665       2,2256        7,78        3,561        3,945        4, 19        4,270        4,740        4,265
1/ Beans LE 25, Maize LE 97, Milk LE 83, Meat LE 16.
2/ Including interest at 11.52 p.a.
3/ For domestic water supply, electricity, etc.
4/ See para. 5.13.
,lav 1191



-58 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 8
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (WEST NUBARIYA)
Cost Recovery
Item                        Present Worth Over             Annual Value at
Project Life 1/            Full Development
(LE)                     (LE)
1. Gross Value of Production                                16,005                   3,695
2. Cash Production Costs                                     4,284                      907
3. Net Income                                               11,721                   2,788
4. Less: Depreciation and Return on
Own Capital                         1,756                      300
5.       Imputed Value of Family Labor          3,664                      626
6.       Imputed Value of Management/
Risk Return                         2,344                      564
7.       User Charges for Domestic
Water Supply, Electricity,
Etc. and Taxes                        391                        90
8,155                   1,580
8. Rent/Surplus                                              3,566                   1,208
9. Rent as % of Net Income (8-3)                 (30%)                     (45%)
10. O&M Cost of Irrigation & Drainage              143                       30
11. Capital Recovery (LE 44 million                                          I
over 25 years=LE 440 per farm             1,270                       300
per year)
12. Total Direct Charges (10+11)                              1,413                      330
13. Rent Recovery Index (12-8)                    (40%)                     (27%)
14. Public Sector Outlays - Investment          10,205
- O&M                1,308       11,513
15. Cost Recovery Index (12 -14)                  (12%)
1/ All values are in present value terms, with a 35 year project life, and a
discount rate of 10%, for a six feddan farm.



- 59  -                                                           ANNEX  1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Settler Houses and Satellite Villages
Proposal for House for Settler Farmers                                   Village Houses Clustered Around "midana"
Living -~~.LZ*
Hosh 
X                                    I                                          0Rpeat
Q3    I
Cattte Stable       Shaded Roof
85.0
U    '-~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Scale 1/1000                                       Sketch 3
Sketch 1
Proposal for Satellite Village
(Actual Site Plan to be Adjusted for Topographical Features at each Site)
T7
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ it if t, M It IggS 
Sketch 2                                                                                  Cel z,al core of
cornmunity facilities,
market, school,
Scale 1/!5000          Sketch 4             hcalth center and
staff houses.
VWorld Bank  21618



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Implementation Schedule
Year        1981              1982               1983               1984               1985               1986
Quarter   1   2      4              3              4             1                      2 3    4   1   2 3   4 |2  3   4
CONSIHUCIION NASR CANAL EXIENSION       _             _ 1  1 111 1 1
CONSTRUCTION REGIONAL MAIN DRAIN                   m_mIII *1_1          m 1                -____
(7.200 Fed)
RECLAMATION WORKS (PART A)               m _     _                       m ( F_
LEACHING AND FINAL LEVELLING (PART A)                                            17,200 Fed)
CROP ROTATION (PART A)                              (     6                                         (7,20( Fed)
(1 6800 Fedi)
RECLAMATION WORKS (PART B)                        _       *   _  _    -                - _  _             - _
LEACHING AND FINAL LEVELLING (PART 8)                                                     (8,40      400 Fed
CROP ROTATION (PART B)                                                                                        (8,40  Fed40 Fed 
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT                                u _                   - '           - .         ui 
CONSULTANCY SERVICES                                                                                                                                                           1 -  -  i _   _  -  I -   -
OVERSEAS TRAINING
SUPPORT TO SETTLERS                                                                                                               -
81 LHARZIA CONTROL PROGRAM                                          __|   
I    -  I  == -                 I -    -                                        - I    I-   
Preparation of Des gn and Tender Documents
* _     U_ * Bidding and Award of Contracts
effi -  w  Mobilization Period
Construction
World Rank -21619



VWATER DISTRIBUTION
LIAISON MIN. IRRIGATION           ml
2
C
m
m
MAINTENANCE         _
CIVIL WORKS BUILDINGS
C,
MAI NTENANCE                  O
MACHNINERY -VEHICLES              Z
WORKSHOPS-STORE
RESEARCH-MONITORING
SOIL LABORATORY
EXTENSSIONTRACIING   Lm
TRAINING FARM       r                                                       -v   r
COOPERATIVES                   m                            _
m                            2                    M1
MARKETING                    w                             m                 C 1    mn
-=  _____o____C,                                                          o           C   CC
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     2~~                            ~ ~ 2                 
VETERINARY SERVICES                                            m               - > _v
CL INIC-Al CENTER                                            m                    m
r < 7~~>  m
~- o-
| SOCIAL AFFAIRS                  Oc_ 
o    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '~ m
Z
VILLAGE DEVELOPMENT    _ _        m
m.
C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
MONITORING-EVALUATION
ADMINISTRATiON                 z
rnH
FINANCE           o-
CI
I X3NtNV                                           -9-



- 62 -                                ANNEX 2
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
Related Documents Available in the Project File
A. DOCUMENTS RELATED TO PROJECT BACKGROUND
A-1   Feasibility Study of West Nubariya Extension Reclamation and
Settlement Project-Final Report by ULG Consultants, Ltd. (8 volumes)-
August 1979.
A-2   New Land Development Project (West Nubariya), Project Brief
Update-November 1979.
A-3   West Nubariya Reclamation and Settlement Project, Proposal for
Detailed Design of Works, First Year of Construction-Halcrow ULG
Ltd.- May 1979.
A-4   West Nubariya Project for Irrigation and Settlement, Costed
Technical Proposals for the Development Trials, ULG Consultants,
Ltd.- May 1979.
A-5   West Nubariya Settlement-Design Project.  Monthly Progress Reports,
Halcrow-ULG Ltd.
A-6   West Nubariya Development Trials, Monthly Reports, ULG Consultants Ltd.
A-7   El Nasr Canal-Remedial Measures Proposals, Sir William Halcrow and
Partners-November 1978.
A-8   Rehabilitation El Nasr Canal-Tender Documents.
B. DOCUMENTS RELATED TO PROJECT PROPOSALS
B-1   New Land Development Project (West Nubariya) Social Aspects-Detailed
Report of Mr. John Pilgrim, Consultant in Sociology, Member of the
Appraisal Team-March 1980.
B-2   New Land Development Project (West Nubariya) Building and Infrastructure
Analysis-Detailed Report, March 1980.
B-3   New Land Development Project (West Nubariya) Bilharzia Control-Detailed
Report of Dr. Gerald Webbe, Consultant in Bilharzia Control, Member
of the Appraisal Team-March 1980.
B-4   New Land Development Project (West Nubariya):  (a) Agricultural Research,
Demonstration and Training; (b) Livestock. Detailed Proposals Prepared
by Mr. Nigel Monteith, Agriculturist, Member of the Appraisal Team-
May 1980.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
C. DETAILED TABLES
C-1   Climatic Data.
C-2   Areas Served by Nasr Canal.
C-3   Pumping Stations-Operation During Peak and Off-Peak Periods (at Full
Capacity).
C-4   Pumping Stations-Operational Characteristics.
C-5   Pumping Stations-Energy Consumption During Peak and Off-Peak Periods
(Operation at Full Capacity).
C-6   Climatic Conditions for Water Requirements Calculation.
C-7   Daily Evapotranspiration ETO (Blanney-Criddle).
C-8   Length of Growing Season.
C-9   Crop Coefficient Kc.
C-10 Values of Kc for Initial Stage.
C-li Crop Water Requirements.
C-12 Irrigation Requirements.
C-13 Domestic Water Supply-Basic Assumptions.
C-14 Project Staff, Housing and Vehicles (a-c).
C-15 Other Staff in Project Area, Housing and Vehicles (a-b).
C-16 Project Staff-Cost and Phasing.
C-17 Buildings-Unit Cost.
C-18  Equipment for Houses and Buildings.
C-19 Staff Housing and Cost.
C-20 Detailed Cost Estimates (a-i).
C-21 Annual O&M Cost (Economic).



-64-                                 ANNEX 2
Page 3
C-22 Annual O&M Cost (Financial).
C-23 Annual O&M Cost for Services (Financial).
C-24 Replacement Cost.
C-25 Vehicles and Equipment Required for Bilharzia Program.
C-26  Molluscicide and Drugs Required for Bilharzia Program.
C-27 Value of Project Output at Economic Prices.
C-28 Farm Costs at Full Development of Economic Prices.
C-29 Foreign Exchange Effects.
C-30 Estimated Government Funds Required for the Implementation of
the Project.
C-31 Time Schedule for Establishment of Training Farm, Training and
Settlement of Farmers.
C-32 Statistical Cost Information.



__                                  _            _ _                                                \  __              I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B RD 15T30
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT                                                                                                                                          |
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   
West Nubariya                                                                 a                      ay   Fr,, 
\> / <,o,0 > <,/ X > M a r y u t F a r rr X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .y                                     F. 
0 a5lG           g ,                           0 S  3 '   '                                                                            ;\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r b.or    d|.b., .= S.- Phm-yCuos             
rr5          |             -~~~~~~~-~  Setondary~J.  C-Nls1   ARAB  REPUBLIC
__ youve ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Open Dr,.s                                                   _l   OF EGYPT
-zlri~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                          .  oul Wat.r Mom T-1,L  K LCIMETERC 0    2  1  
--M. n R..d,                                                             E      



