Document of              FILE  C(py
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rweprt No. P-2910-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
November 25, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankc authorinktlo_



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CJRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE) = US$1.43
1 US Dcllar            = LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COMECOM - Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
GDP     - Gross Domestic Product
GNP     - Gross National Product
GODE    - Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt:
M&LT    - Medium and Long Term
ODA     - Overseas Development Administration
PBDAC   - Principal Bank for Development
and Agricultural Credit
PPF     - Project Preparation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WEST NUBARIYA)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Education
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Irrigation
Ministry of Land Reclamation
Rural Electrification Authority
Alexandria General Water Authority
Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit
(PBDAC)
Amount:             SDRs 60.9 million (US$80 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Relending
Terms:             Government would on-lend to the Principal Bank for
Development and Agricultural Credit SDRs 2.15 million
($2.8 million equivalent) of the credit for a period of
10 years after a grace period of 5 years at an interest
rate of 5 percent per annum. Sub-loans by PBDAC woulcl
be at 8 percent interest.  The government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:       The project consists of (a) construction of irrigation
and drainage work to service 24,000 feddans (net) of
reclaimed desert land; (b) settlement of 4,000 small-
holder in 20 villages and provision of necessary eco-
nomic and social infrastructure; (c) provision of farm
.machinery, consultant services and training, and farm
credit. In. addition, the project includes a bilharzia
component to consolidate the national program and to
expand the control program into the project area and
Giza Governorate. Major project benefits include pro--
vision of agricultural land and increased incomes for
4,000 low income farm families and unquantifiable bene-
fits of increasing the control of bilharzia. The major
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
risk is whether the actual management and organization
of the project will be adequate. The design of the
project with a staged development, simple! irrigatiorn
system, and three tiered organizational structure
(Central Coordinating Committee, Project Unit, and
Regional Implementation Committee) should minimize tlhis
risk.  Assurances were also obtained that: the govermnent
would ensure the timely availability of adequate funds.
Cost Estimates:                                               US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
A. Reclamation Works
Irrigation and Drainage Works                     25.9       19.8    45.7
Infrastructure (roads, water supply,
electrification, telecommunications)             4.8        4.9      9.7
Farmers settlement                                 16.6      11.2    27.8
Equipment                                           1.0       3.9      4.9
Consultants - Training                             0.5        3.8      4.3
Services and Support to Farmers                     5.3       2.0      7.3
B. Bilharzia Control
Equipment and Chemicals                             2.9      14.3    17.2
Total Base Cost                                57.0       59.9   116.9
Physical Contingencies                          7.2        7.2    14.4
Price Contingencies                            40.1       21.6    61.7
Grand Total (incl. US$11.7 m
of taxes and duties)                              104.3      88.7   193.0
Financing Plan:                                               US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                                    -       80.0    80.0
African Development Fund                              4.4       5.6    10.0
World Food Program                                     -        3.1      3.1
Government                                           99.5        -      99.5
Farmers                                               0.4        -       0.4
Total                                               104.3      88.7   193.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                        US$ Million
FY    80    81    82    8-3   84    85    86
Annual                             0.6   5.4  14.2  22.4  22.2  11.9   3.3
Cumulative                        0.6   6.0  20.2  42.6  64.8  76.7  80.0
Rate of Return:    10.8 percent on 60 percent of project costs for which
benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3010-EGT, dated October 31, 1980
Agriculture IV, Projects Department,
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLI-C OF EGYPT
FOR A NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for SDRs 60.9 million
(US$80 million equivalent) to help finance part of the foreign exchange
cost of a new land development project. The development credit would have
standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (see M79-839) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 28, 1979. A special economic mission subsequently visited Egypt
during March/April 1980. The findings of the mission are incorporated in
the following discussion. Country data sheets reflecting the recently
updated and revised national accounts are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.       After more than a decade of inward-looking and centralist economic
policies, economic trends in Egypt have been influenced strongly since the
mid-1970's by the "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in
October 1973 and approved in a national referendum in May 1974. The
declared aim of this strategy has been to accelerate economic development
through the adoption of more outward-looking policies and greater emphasis
on the role of private investment. Specifically, the strategy envisages
(i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations and restrictions on
private economic activity; (ii) greater decentralization of decision-making
in state-owned enterprises; (iii) the attraction of foreign capital; and
(iv) expanded economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial
inflows of external assistance are considered essential to support the
strategy.
4.       To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
1/ Part I is substantially unchanged from Part I of the recent President's
Report for the Third Education Project (P-2897-EGT), approved by the
Executive Directors on October 7, 1980.



gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberaliza-
tion of foreign exchange regulations.  Starting in 1973 when the parallel
market rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued
by 44 percent from US$2.56 to US$-1.43 per pound at present. Exchange
restrictions were eased, specific. import allocations were replaced by
general import quotas, and more foreign exchange was made available to both
the public and private sector. S new investment law (1974, amended in
1977) offered attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements,
especially with the EEC, opened rnew markets for export products; at the
same time, bilateral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced.  A debt
management unit, which was establ.ished in the Central Bank, became opera--
tive in mid-1978.
5.       In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially
by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual
enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures; (ii) introducing
material incentives; (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales;
(iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements; and (v) undertak-
ing some investments from their own resources. Interest rates have been
raised several times and now starLd at 11 to 13 percent for lending (to th1e
non-government sector) and 6 to SI percent for term deposits. Provincial
authority to undertake regional cevelopment programs has also been
expanded.  Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment and pricing decisions. Effective decentralization can only be
achieved within the framework of a relative price system reflecting eco-
nomic costs of production. The slow pace of price reform constitutes a
major obstacle to greater decentralization.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
6.       The open-door strategy cnd subsequent policy actions, combined
with a favorable external envirorLment and the growth of domestic petroleum
production, have yielded impressive results.  Above all, they have led to a
rapid increase in Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which roseB from $1.4
billion in 1973 to $6.7 billion i.n 1979. During this period, oil exports,
workers' remittances, the Suez Canal and tourism emerged as major new
sources of foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of
agricultural and industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard
currency area. In addition, the Government managed to attract large
amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of medium and. long-term
capital averaged $3.3 billion per annum during 1975-79, compared with an
average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72.  The bulk of these aid flows
came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly concessional
terms.
7.       Increased foreign exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have
resulted in a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened
the country's creditworthiness. While short-term credits owed by the
Government to commercial banks peaked at $1.4 billion at the end of 1976,



-3-
1te27 w,ere reduced to $443 million at the end of 1978, largely with the help
o'f iong-term loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Development of
E-g,.pt (CO;DE).  During the same period substantial arrears in debt payments,
,Which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These changes have
solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms of new borrowings have also
eased the burden of the country's medium and long-term debt.  Although
-cy-pt's total medium and long-term public debt increased sharply during
*e-en~ years--from $2.1 billion at the end of 1973 to an estimated $11.0
billon'  at the end of 1979--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent
to about 20 percent during the same period. This reflects not only more
favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--
but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.
8.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way Lor a rapid increase
of investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of
exisEing production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding
interest payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to $7.9 billion in
1979; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange enabled greater imports of raw materials,
nntermediate goods--including fertilizer and pesticides--and spare parts,
thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had constrained local production.
Together with investments in new capacities and the vigorous expansion of
services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these developments sharply
accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices
rose at an average rate of close to 8 percent per annum during 1974-1979.
Much of the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufactur-
ing. transport and public utilities. Agricultural production increased
slowly (about 1.5 percent per annum).  The growth rate of GNP was even
higher, about 8.6 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in
workers' remittances from $189 million in 1974 to $2.1 billion in 1979.
The higher level of economic activity together with large-scale labor
m7azton to neighboring oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the
excess labor force that existed in the early 1970s.  In fact, labor shor-
tages have occurred in a number of occupations, especially in the construc-
tion sector.
10.      Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from about 18
percent in 1974 to about 30 percent on average in the 1976-79 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign sav-
ings as well as the rapid growth in national savings. The latter increased
frorn 7 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 19 percent in 1979, largely
reflecting the rise in remittance income. The domestic savings rate, how-
ever, while showing some growth since 1974, financed less than a quarter of
investment in the 1974-79 period. A major cause for this inadequate level
of domestic savings was the continuously low and often negative savings



generated by the consolidated government budget. During 1974-79, the cur-
rent budget showed a small surplus in only two out of six rears.  This wals
the result of high defense and security expenditures, large consumer sub-
sidies, fast growing interest payments and low financial rates of return
generated by public enterprises excluding the Suez Canal Authority and the
Petroleum Corporation.  The resuLt has been a continuous shortage of
domestic savings which has slowed down.the implementation of investment
projects and led to inflationary financing practices in the public sector.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The last two years mark the emergence of the petroleum sector as.,
the dominant sector in the Egyptian economy. Production of crude is at
present averaging close to 550,000 barrels a day.  After the 1979 round of
increases in the world price of oil, Egyptian oil exports doubled in
value.  In 1980 export revenues from crude petroleum and refined products
will be close to $2.5 billion compared to $800 million in 1978. The share
of the petroleum sector in GDP has risen from less than 3 percent in the
early 1970's to 8 percent in 1978 and is estimated at 22 percent in 1980.
Moreover, profit transfers and other taxes from the petroleum sector will
provide an estimated 30 percent of government revenue in 1980. It must be
stressed, however, that present production levels reflect very high procduc-
tion to reserve ratios and that maintenance of these production levels
after the mid-1980's would require more new discoveries.  Domestic consump-
tion is growing very rapidly so that the size of the exportable surplus may
be difficult to maintain.  It is hoped that recently discovered nationaL
gas fields prove to be large enough and can be developed rapidly enough to
release sufficient quantities of petroleum for export. It is also very
important that efforts to increase production of energy are complemented by
measures designed to achieve more efficient domestic use of energy.  In
this context more appropriate energy pricing is of crucial importance.
Bank financed studies on petroleum product pricing and natural gas use are
currently underway and should form the basis for a comprehensive reform of
energy use and pricing policies.
12.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum revenues and alsc the
higher tariffs for Suez Canal traffic, Egypt's foreign exchange earnings
continued to grow rapidly in 1979 and 1980. At $1.5 billion, the current
account deficit in 1979 was lower in relation to GDP (8.7 percent) than
in any year since 1973. Medium and long-term capital infLows declined
somewhat when compared to the level realized in 1978 ($3.1 billion compared
to $3.4 billion) reflecting the cessation of cash inflows from GODE ($500
million in 1978) and a drastic lecline in bilateral disbursements from Arab
sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about $300 million in
1978). This reduction was partly compensated for by a si;gnificant increase
in direct foreign investment ($710 million in 1979 compared to $439 million
in 1978) and an increase in non-Arab bilateral and multilateral aid flows.
As a result, the basic balance (current account plus net MLT capital flows)
showed a surplus ($598 million) and there has been a significant increase
in the level of foreign exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1980



indicate another sU;coiUS yeu: .o-.- thr L,a bla      . 'wi-th petroleum
revenues at about $2.5 billi-on, SuGz C;a-a earnin-gs Cl-ose to $850 million
and gross MLT capital flows reacting .3.7 billion, significantly higher
than in 1C'979.
13.      Reforms in eexch,angse  atce ar.  ilveetnent inc::cve po1icies have
contributed significantly to the recent ia,.rove-n rf s in tihe balanice of pay-
ments.  The current account. and Lne _-rcad  balance re-aa-in weak, however, and
in the mid-1980's Eg7pt w ll ha-.7e to deal with subsm,ntial debt-service
payments.  Longer-termr prospects depend on Egypt' s abil-Ly to improve her
trade balance.  In the absence of major new petroleuim.n discoveries, this
will require more efficient use of domestic energy resources, growth in
manufactured exports and a moderation in import growlh.  Continued care
must be taken, therefore, to keep iacentives appropr:.ate and to choose
investment projects taking account of their long-terra impact orn the balance
of payments.
14.      The domestic fiscal situasion and the inflationary pressures it
has generated remain an area of major con1cern. After 1978, inflation,
reaching 20 percent for the first time in decades, hnEis created considerable
social tension.  In the summer of 1980 a major reorgcnization of the
government was announced by President Sadat, includicg wide ranging eco-
nomic measures to redress a deteriorating social climat-e.  Most of these
measures mark a pause in the process of Liberalization and rationalization
of the price system.  The prices of some comnodco-es and services supplied
by the public sector have actually been reduced, subsidies have been
increased and there has becn an across the board increase in wages and
salaries.  Import duties have been lowered on a wide range of producer and
consumer goods.  The recent increases .n the fiscal contribution of the
petroleum sector as well as increased revenues from rhe enlarged Suez
Canal, may momentarily balance these increased subsidiies and public
expenditures. But the underlying public sector resouirce eqiuilibrium
remains precarious.  A better system for targeting sabsidies and a sweeping
rationalization of pxblic sector pricing policies are preconditions for any
long-term improvement in the fiscal situation. Moreover, without such an
improvement, it will not be possible to control inflationary pressures and
resulting social problems.  Recognizing the challenge posed by future
trends, the government has announced plans for tax reformr and a reform of
public sector financing practices.  A new National investment Bank is to
supervise and finance all gublic sector investment projects with the objec-
tive of economizing resources and speeding up the 4mrlementation of proj-
ects.  It has also been announced that a new expendit.ure tax will attempt
to compensate for the ver-y low level of revenues fromi direct income taxes.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Egypt has considerable potential for continumd rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief:  a large doiestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultu-ral resource base not yet
fully developed, varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key



geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily, how-'
ever, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic
for foreign savings will become maore pressing as net foreign contributions
decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained inl a number of
sectors, including infrastructure.  The expansion of new capacities has
been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate fiscal
resources and weakness in national coordination and sector programming.
Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial incentives
for production are often inadequate.  Higher levels of economic activity
together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical profes-
sional and technical skills.  Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect
a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.      Another key issue is po?ulation.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 41 million in 1979 with an average density
exceeding 1,300 per square kilomeater of agricultural land---the population
has grown at a rate of about 2.5 percent per annum in the 1970's, adding
almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost haLf of this
increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create great pressures on resources for consumption and investment ancl
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run.  ln the past years the
Government has made a new commitment to direct action on population
matters. While it has already initiated a more aggressive program (e.g.,
by introducing an intensified home visiting program under ithe second IDA
financed population project), it will take considerable time to achieve
measurable results in fertility reduction.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing dis-
parity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflatiDn and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups cDuld lead to serious social problems.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con--
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase the
efficiency of government administration through organization and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of domestic
resources and fiscal reform; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced program
to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) adopt urban and
rural strategies aimed at decentralizing urban growth and economic oppor-
tunities; (v) develop a coordinated export promotion policy; and finally
(vi) strengthen the general use Df prices as meaningful indicators of rela-
tive scarcities.  There is an ongoing dialogue on all these important
issues between the Egyptian authDrities and the Bank. They have also been
the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultaitive Group for
Egypt.



- 7-
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military medium and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1979 was estimated at about $11.2 bil-
lion. Bilateral loans comprised about 6.9 billion or about 62 percent of
the debt outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers'
credit were about 23 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being
held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the GODE and USA,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 5 percent of the total disbursed debt. Debt
service on medium and long-term debt was estimated at $1.3 billion in 1979
giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent.
20.      If progress towards overcoming structural constraints can be
achieved and the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the
deficit on the current account can be kept at about 12 percent of GDP on
average. The required capital inflows are large--but if they continue to
be available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing
capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on
harder terms. The burden of servicing medium and long-term debt as a per-
centage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctuate
between 20 and '25 percent over the next 5 years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed credit would be the World Bank's fifty-third lending
operation. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments made since 1970 to
$1971.6 million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted in
the development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, population,
transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education sectors.
Annex II contains a Summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
September 30, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors.  Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum of sectors in order
to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources
but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral
agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a
coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle
the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Third Education Project (P-2897-EGT),
approved by the Board on October 7, 1980.



assistance not only for adequate implementation of specific investment pro-
grams but for developing the domestic institutional capabilitv to articu-
late and implement future policies and investment programs. The Bank's
deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differentiated by
sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian authorities can
reasonably be expected to address these issues and impLement the programrs.
23.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive emnployment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". However, this sector is beset by complex
problems which stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and
lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives
for more efficient production. Efforts under Bank financed projects have
gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and
increasing production capacity and supply of essential conmmodities in
resource-based industries (cottoni ginning, textiles, cement: and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank is assist-
ing the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening
sectoral planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities
with the objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the
1980's. It has also financed sixt subsector studies in textiles, building
materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, ancd engineering
industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a package of'
policy and investment proposals, which are also embodied in our projects.
Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for further study with a
view to developing specific recorimendations about some of the major issues
facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment,
wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship to the private
sector. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study
on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for joint Bank/
Egyptian efforts in this area. FPinally, the Bank is assisting the Govern-
ment in a major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is
one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in
initiating studies to develop a brick master plan and cemerLt distribution
master plan.
24.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifacieted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy. It is a rcole that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending
follows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education,



power, gas development, rural and urban development, population and nutri-
tion, transportation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage),
development finance and industry.
25.      Bank Group disbursements in 1979 represent about 8 percent of
Egypt's medium and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total ex-arnal debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.1 percent and
2.9 percent, respectively, as of December 31, 1979. For the future, the
Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
(excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 5.5 and 3.5 percent
respectively in 1981. It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments
due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent,
respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
26.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $69 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1978); a fish farming
project (1979); and a building materials project (1980). IFC is discussing
several other private sector and joint venture projects.
PART III - AGRICULTURE: STRATEGY, BANK ASSISTANCE,
AND NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT 1/
27.      Agriculture continues to be the largest sector in the Egyptian
economy, contributing about 23 percent of GDP, employing 40 percent of the
labor force, and responsible for about 70 percent of the country's annual
non-oil export earnings. Although around 95 percent of Egypt's land is
desert, its cultivated soils are among the most fertile in the world and
the climate provides excellent growing conditions for year-round cropping.
Crop yields are high by world standards, but comparison with other
similarly endowed areas shows that there is considerable potential to
obtain higher yields.
Country Strategy and Previous Bank Assistance
28.      The country's growth strategy for agriculture development includes
a number of programs designed to increase yields on the old agricultural
lands, for which the Bank is providing assistance. The foremost need is
the creation of an economic climate in which the farmers will have adequate
incentives for expanding production, given access to new technologies. The
elaborate set of procurement prices and input subsidies has severely dis-
torted the market signals with consequent ill effects in resource alloca-
tion. The Government has started to correct at least some of the more
1/ The Egyptian agricultural sector is described in detail in the Basic
Economic Report, distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1978.



- 10 -
glaring distortions, although much more needs to be done over time.  The
Bank is undertaking an agricultural pricing study, and is engaged in on-
going discussions about possible further opportunities to ease price con--
trols and reduce subsidies.
29.      The basic physical factcrs underlying stagnating pro(ductivity in
agriculture are rising water tables and increased soil salinity. Since
1973, and assisted by four Bank-financed projects, the Government has made
sizeable investments in drainage structures, with the overall aim of pro--
viding about 4.5 million feddans with underground drainage systems.
30.      Another priority for increasing current yields is technological
change, particularly the breeding of higher yielding crop varieties respon-
sive to water and fertilizer and resistant to disease and pests. The key
is applied research, which, together with an improved extension service and
the availability of inputs, is essential for a fuller exploitation of the
country's growth potential. With the support of the Bank (through the
Talkha Fertilizer Project, FY74) and other donors, Egypt expects to
approach self-sufficiency in urea fertilizer by 1981.  The Bank has contri-
buted to seed research and development through the Fruit and Vegetable
Project (FY76), and to farm mechanization and agricultural services in the
Governorates of Sohag and Minufiya in the Agricultural Development Project
(FY78). The Fruit and Vegetable Project has moved slowly, mainly becausie
of administrative and management problems, and similar problems are emerg-
ing with the Sohag/Minufiya Project. The Government, with assistance from
the Bank, is making a concerted effort to improve implementation of theses
two projects with the help of training and technical assistance.
31.      The Bank's most recent agricultural project in. Egypt is providinig
medium-term funds for the rehabilitation and expansion of agroindustries,
in particular increasing the flowT of funds for smaller, private investments
(Agroindustries Development, FY80). The Bank's other financial assistance
to agriculture has been through t:he Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Loan and Credit (FY75), which financed imports of fertilizer, pesticides,
machinery spare parts and some tractors; and through a Cott:on Ginning
Rehabilitation Project (FY74). I:n addition the Bank is the executing
agency for a UNDP-financed program to assist in developing a M.{aster Plan
for Water Resources and Uses. This technical assistance program is provid-
ing a basis for the Government to choose among alternative development
policy options in the different sectors for which water use! is important
and within agriculture among alternative ways of alloca.ting irrigation
water, and to study possibilities for improving efficiency of water use.
New Land Development
32.       In spite of the reclamat:ion over the last few decades of over 1
million feddans, which is equivalent to about 15 percent of the country's
current farmland, Egypt has only about 0.15 feddans per capita under culti-
vation. With population increasing at a rate of more than 2.5 percent pier
annum, rapid urbanization has resulted in a loss estimated variously at



- 11 -
15,000 to 30,000 feddans of agricultural land per annum. The population
density is greater than in other high density countries: a ratio of 1,050
persons per square kilometer of arable land in Egypt compares to corres-
ponding ratios of 882 for Bangladesh and 800 for Indonesia.
33.      During the 1970's, shifts in the distribution of income that
resulted in increased food consumption and a population growth rate that
outstripped increases in agricultural output combined to force a rapid rise
in agricultural commodity imports. For two primary food commodities, wheat
and meat, imports now account for 75 and 25 percent, respectively, of total
consumption, compared to imports of 44 percent for wheat and virtually none
for meat 10 years ago.
34.      The Government, even though it continues to balance its agricul-
tural development program with significant investments in "old lands,"
believes it has very limited alternatives other than massive land reclama-
tion to solve the problems caused by the high ratio of population to arable
land and to increase food security. This is true, in particular, since
through such land reclamation the country can create employment at lower
cost than if employment would have to be created in other sectors, and
there is limited opportunity for employment creation on "old agricultural"
land areas. The proposed project, for example, would create directly about
8,500 jobs at an estimated average cost of around LE 5,500 per job. This
compares with the estimated capital cost for incremental urban employment
of LE 9,000 per job.
35.      In the early 1950s, the Government started reclaiming lands and in
the last two decades, a considerable proportion of public investment in
agriculture has been spent on land reclamation. In the 1978-82 five year
plan about 28 percent (LE 247 million) of the agricultural budget was allo-
cated specifically to new land development. The Government's future plans
are ambitious. In the next five years it is planning for the development
of about 900,000 feddans, and in the following five years another 1.3 mil-
lion. By the late 1990s Egypt plans to have an additional 2.8 million
feddans of newly reclaimed land, increasing its current arable land area by
more than 40 percent.
36.      Past performance is sobering and stresses the urgency to improve
selection and design of new land development projects. Of the existing
reclaimed land, less than 60 percent is under cultivation and possibly as
little as 35 percent is being cultivated with profit. The principal diffi-
culty has not been the unsuitability of the soils for crop production,
rather it has been the deficiencies in technical design, such as inadequate
drainage, and the "company" approach to managing reclaimed lands. The
proposed project would introduce institutional changes and sectoral
policies that, when reproduced elsewhere, would substantially strengthen
the country's new land development program, including, for example,
improved technical designs, a small farm settlement pattern, and the intro-
duction of effective management and adequate agricultural services.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The project was identified in April 1978, with the help of a
Bank/FAO-CP mission. With financial assistance from the Overseas Develop-
ment Administration (ODA) of the UK, the Egyptian Government worked with a
team of consultants to complete detailed feasibility studies of the project
area. The project was appraised in January/February 1980 by M4essrs. P.
Economides, G. Donovan and N. Monteith (Bank) and J. Pilgrim, D. Shoesmith
and G. Webbe (consultants). Negctiations were held in Washington from
September 24 to October 6, 1980, with the government delegation headed by
Mr. Samir Koraiem. A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex
III. The staff appraisal report entitled "New Land Development Project
(West Nubariya)" (No. 3010-EGT) dated October 31, 1980, is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
38.      The basic objectives of the proposed project are to improve income
distribution and generate employment for the rural poor; to initiate a pro-
cess of restructuring and strengthening agricultural institutions on
reclaimed lands; and to reduce dependence on imports and save foreign
exchange by increasing agricultural production. The selection criteria for
the project area settlers are specifically designed to assist rural house-
holds in the poverty group, and by creating new jobs and new agriculturaL
land the project will help ease the population pressure on existing lands,
thereby improving conditions of cither rural poor.
Project Description
39.      The project is located in West Nubariya west of the Nile Delta,
about 60 km from Alexandria and 160 km from Cairo. It is an esxtension oE
land reclamation that has been going on in adjacent areas since the early
1960s, including two relatively successful settlement programs. The only
people currently in the project area are a small number of Bedouin
families. About 4,000 farmers arnd their families would be settled in an
area of 24,000 feddans (net) of clesert land reclaimed for intensive agri--
culture, each settler family receiving 6 feddans. The settlers would be
selected according to existing guidelines, which, among other conditions,
stipulate that the settlers woulcL not previously possess or rent more than
2 feddans of land. In addition, for the project, the government would
agree to include by the end of 1981, in selection criteria the settlers
willingness to participate in training and educational programs and, when
necessary, in land reclamation works (Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.09).
Major Physical Components
40.      Irrigation water for the project area will come from the Nile
through the Nasr Canal. Part of the Canal (27 km) has already been



- 13 -
constructed, although it needs considerable rehabilitation for which funds
have already been allocated under the Fruit and Vegetable Development
Project (Loan 1276-EGT). The Government is financing, and work is already
underway, for the extension of the canal to 55 km. The proposed project
includes financing of a further extension of the canal to 67 km, which is
necessary to reach the western part of the project area. In August 1980,
the government invited bids for the repair of the first 27 km of the Canal,
and because the repair of this section is vital to the proposed project,
the conclusion of the contract for these works is a condition of credit
effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)). Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the repair of the Nasr Canal to 27 km,
its extension to 67 km and other works (enlargement of the canal
Riyah-el-Nassiri, and the construction of two pumping stations), all of
which are required to secure water for the project, would be completed
before December 31, 1983 (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
Basin irrigation would be applied in the whole project area while
irrigation canals would be concrete lined. With good land levelling,
training of farmers and adequate supervision, it is expected that the
overall irrigation efficiency will be satisfactory. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the government will supply the project area
with adequate amounts of water for obtaining optimum yields (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.06(c)).
41.      The project will finance a drainage system; otherwise waterlogging
would be expected to begin two or three years after the commencement of
irrigation.
42.      The project will provide low cost houses to the settler families
and service buildings to agriculture and community services, such as educa-
tion and health. The project will also provide other infrastructure
including a road network, domestic water supply, electrification, and tele-
communications.
43.      The project includes financing for agricultural machinery to be
bought on credit by farmers or groups of farmers. Machinery workshops
would also be provided; they would be managed and operated by the firm pro-
viding the machinery.
44.      A 130 feddan training farm would be developed to provide the basis
for research, extension and farmer training programs. Field trials are
currently underway to help design cropping procedures and provide informa-
tion for extension and training.
45.      The project provides for the application of a bilharzia control
program in the project area, and also funding to continue Bank supported
bilharzia activities in Middle and Upper Egypt, and in the Giza Governor-
ate. Before coming to the settlement area, immigrant settlers and their
families will be screened for bilharzia, and the infected cases will be
treated.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance
46.       The project would inclucle 307 man-months of consultin,ag time for
the following activities:
(a) detailed designs: about 116 man-months.
(b)  field trials, research and extension:  four full-time con-
sultants would be appointed to assist in estaLblishing and
supporting a research and extension program. Consultants
would also be financed to continue the field trials startedJ
by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA). A total of
155 man-months of consulting time would be required.
(c)  other services:  in addition to the above, 36 man-months of
short term speciali.sts are provided to assist th e government
in solving technical and managerial problems.
All consultants would be appointed under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04).
47.       In addition, under a 1 million dollar Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) approved for the project, consultants are preparing the final design
and tender documents for the first 7,200 feddans of land in the project
area. The first tender for civii works of about US$20 mill-ion will be
ready to be advertised as soon as the credit is approved by the Associa-
tion. The PPF is also funding the continuation of field trials which were
started with the help of funds from the Overseas Development Administration.
Organization and Management
48.       The Ministry of Land Reclamation would be responsible for overall
planning and coordination of the project. Under the Ministry a Project
Unit would be established to carry out the project activities.  A condition
of project effectiveness would be the appointment to the Unit of a quali-
fied and experienced Director General and the appointment of the heads of
the Engineering and Agricultural Sections (Development Creclit Agreement,
Section 5.01(b)). The Unit would also eventually include staff for sec-
tions for community development, administration, and finance.
49.       Government agencies wou'Ld be responsible for activities under thhe
project in their respective fields, including the Ministries of Irrigation,
Agriculture, Health, Education; l he Rural Electrification Authority and
General Water Authority of Alexandria; and the PrincipaLl Bank for Develop-
ment and Agricultural Credit. In order to insure close cooperation and
proper phasing of the work done by these various groups, in Cairo a Central
Coordination Committee has been established for the project: comprised of
representatives from the three key Ministries:  Land Reclamation, Irriga-
tion, and Agriculture. At the regional level, a Regional Implementation
Committee would be established by the end of 1981 to provicle support to the



- 15 -
Project Unit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05). The regional
representatives of all the agencies involved in the implementation of the
project would sit on the Committee, joined at a later date by farmer
representatives.
Implementation
50.      The project will be implemented over six calendar years, 1981-86.
The Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt would be the Borrower, and the
Ministry of Land Reclamation the principal implementing agency.
51.      The Ministry of Land Reclamation would plan and conduct the selec-
tion and recruitment of the settlers, working closely with governorate
officials. After their arrival, the Community Development Section of the
Project Unit would be responsible for helping families settle in the proj-
ect area. The Project Unit would be responsible for the supervision of the
construction activities and carrying out through its sections the
day-to-day work, such as operation and maintenance of project works;
agriculture research, training, and cooperative development; machinery
service and maintenance; and monitoring and evaluation. The Minister of
Irrigation will be responsible for the extension of the Nasr Canal to 67 km
and for the construction of the Regional Main Drain.
52.      The Ministry of Health would be responsible for planning, execut-
ing and evaluating the bilharzia project component, which would be operated
in the same manner and under the same management as the ongoing Bank pro-
gram. The Ministry of Health is responsible for preparing and submitting
to the Bank a plan of operation. After completion of the consolidation
phase, the Ministry of Health would apply with its own resources on a con-
tinuing basis appropriate maintenance control measures (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 4.06).
53.      In a subsidiary loan agreement, the government would onlend funds
to the Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC) with
repayment at 5 percent over a 10 year period, after a grace period of not
more than 5 years. PBDAC would be responsible for providing credit to the
project farmers. Project funds for farm machinery would be on-lent by
PBDAC to farmers and groups of farmers (including cooperatives), or indivi-
duals. The lending terms to the farmer would be at an interest rate of not
less than 8 percent and downpayment of at least 10 percent of the capital
cost for the investment loan. Other conditions would be that the credit
would not exceed ten years, including not more than a one year grace period
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(b)).
Cost and Financing
54.      The total project cost, including physical and price contingen-
cies, is estimated at $193 million, of which $88.7 million is in foreign
exchange. Consultants' costs have been estimated at US$10,700 per manmonth
(of which US$9,000 per manmonth are foreign exchange costs), including



- 16 -
overhead costs and fees, travel and overseas allowancesi.  Physical contin-
gencies have been assessed at 10 percent for equipment and consultants and
15 percent for civil works, except settler houses for which 10 percent was
allowed. Price contingency estiTaates assume increases in ]Local currency
costs of 18 percent in 1980, 15 percent in 1981, 12 percent: in 1982 and 10
percert per annum thereafter; and in foreign exchange costs of 10.5 percent
for 1980, 9 percent for 1981, 8 percent for 1982, 7 percent: for 1983-85 and
6 percent per annum thereafter.
55.      The proposed IDA credit of $80 million would finance the total
foreign exchange cost for the project's land reclamation works ($66 mil-
lion, excluding $3 million of assistance in kind from the World Food Pro-
gram) 1/ and $14 million of the :Eoreign exchange cost for the bilharzia
component (which totals $20 million). The remaining foreign exchange cosit
for the bilharzia component ($6 maillion) and all its local costs (equiva-
lent to $4 million) is scheduled to be financed by the African Development
Fund or other arrangements made by the government (Development Credit
Agreement, Section[ 3.08(a)). All local currency expenditures for the land
reclamation work ($100 million), except a ten percent downpayment for the!
purchase of farm machinery to be paid by the farmers, woulcd be financed by
the government. During negotiations, assurances were obtai.ned that the
government would provide, promptLy as needed, the funds; required for the
implementation of the project (Development Credit Agreement., Section 3.01).
Procurement
56.      Construction of civil works would be divided into the following
main contracts:
(a)  extension of Nasr Canal, est. $6.4 million;
(b)  construction of Regional Main Drain, est. $7.9 million; and
(c)  construction of irrigation and drainage works, infrastruc-
ture, buildings and housing, divided into two contracts, est.
$20 and $47 million.
These contracts would be tendered under international competitive bidding
according to the Bank's guidelines.
57.      Equipment, farm machinery and vehicles for land reclamation and
bilharzia, est. $6.3 million, would also follow international competitive
bidding procedures. Molluscicides for the bilharzia program would be pur-
chased through international competitive bidding (est. $14.3 million). One
of the oral drugs, currently produced by only one manufacturer, would be
purchased directly (est. $1.0 miLlion). The second oral drug (est. $1.3
1/ During the start-up period, the World Food Program plans to provide
three years' food ration to each settler family.



- 17 -
million to be used to treat S. Mansoni) has not yet been selected and its
procurement method would be decided later after the government consults
with the Association on the drug selected (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.08(b)). Local manufacturers would be allowed a margin of prefer-
ence of 15% or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower. Small con-
tracts of up to $50,000 equivalent for equipment may be awarded on a
competitive basis to reliable suppliers after quotations have been obtained
from at least three such suppliers whenever practicable. The aggregate
expenditure for items so procured would not exceed $400,000 equivalent.
Proprietary equipment (mainly spare parts) estimated to cost in aggregate
up to $300,000 equivalent may be purchased off-the-shelf from reliable
suppliers.
Disbursement
58.      The proposed IDA credit of $80 million would be disbursed as
follows:
(i) 40 percent of the cost of civil works;
(ii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange of imported equipment and
materials, 100 percent of local expenditure ex-factory, and
75 percent of local expenditure;
(iii) 85 percent of the cost of consultants' services; and
(iv) 100 percent of overseas training.
Project Benefits
59.      Production.  Crop and livestock production in the project area
would produce cash income, as well as a considerable proportion of the
family's food requirements. The cropping pattern would include berseem for
animal feed; maize for cash sale and consumption; and sunflower, potatoes
and onions for cash. In addition, small quantities of other crops such as
summer vegetables, wheat and green peas would be grown. The government is
proposing that settlers plant about one-third of their winter cropped area
with sugar beet in order to help reduce sugar imports and establish a sugar
industry in the area, but before the final decision is made to proceed with
sugar beet, a detailed study will be made (by December 31, 1982) to make
sure its returns are at least as high as alternative crops (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.03).
60.      Livestock activities in the area would include mainly dairy pro-
duction, supplemented by income from goats, rabbits, hens and beehives.
The project would include a milk chilling center to permit marketing of
milk not consumed locally.
61.      Role of Women.  Women play a key role in the settlement process,
and the loss of social ties in their former community, which is much more



- 18 -
difficult for women, makes resettlement very difficult. The advantage of
better housing, water, and electricity helps to compensate for these
losses, but medical, transport, and social services to be provided in the
project area will also be very imnportant to successful resettlement. To
help women overcome a traditionally subordinate and isolated position in
rural society, community developmnent services under the project would
provide education programs in literacy, health, population and training
centers for handicraft developmeat. In addition, the prov:ision of day-care
centers will make it easier for women to do their work and when possible to
take advantage of these activities.  Women are key laborers on small farrms,
and the project includes female professional staff and vil:lage auxiliary
workers to assist in animal husbandry, and in the distribution and
marketing of livestock products.
62.      Beneficiaries and Repayment Capacity.  The main beneficiaries of
the project would be the 4,000 farm families which wou:Ld settle in the
project area, providing a total of 8,500 new jobs in the economy. Under
the project, the estimated investment cost per job is LE 5,500 ($7,865);
this compares with the estimated cost for additional employment in the
urban sector of LE 9,000 ($12,873) per job. The settler families would be
drawn from rural poverty groups, very close to absolute poverty with annual
household income averaging about LE 500. Under the project these families,
after payment of operations, maintenance and capital costs, would be able
to earn an estimated income of a little over LE 2,000. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the government would recover from the
settlers the actual annual cost Df maintenance of irrigation and drainage
works within the project area. In addition, over a 25--year period,
interest free, the government would recover the capitaL coists of land
development and the settler's house.  It was also agreed that the govern-
ment would take into consideration in the assessment of the land tax to be
collected from settlers the recovery of the operation and maintenance cost
of the main irrigation and drainage facilities of the project (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.05).
63.      Economic Rate of Return.  The proposed project is characterized,
as are many land reclamation projects, by a relatively slow improvement ii.n
reclaimed soils and thus a slow building-up in agricultura:L production.
The project will establish 20 new villages, each of which will, in time,
evolve into a complete local economy with service facilities and the range
of non-agricultural activities characteristic of an agricu:Ltural commun-
ity. In addition, government plans are well advanced to construct a major
new city in the region, the New Ameriya City, which is scheduled to have a
population of 150,000 by 1990 and 500,000 by the year 2000. The project
would provide a well-developed agricultural base in the new city's immedi-
ate surroundings in contrast to other major cities being established in
desert areas. In the rate of return calculations no account is taken of
the secondary or multiplier effects arising from the setting up oF these
settlements.
64.      The estimate of the econ1omic benefits of the project are confined
to the valuation at economic prices of the crops and livesltock products



- 19 -
that will emerge from the reclaimed lands. Along the lines of other Bank
settlement projects, the investment costs have been adjusted to remove the
investments (and operation and maintenance cost) included in national pro-
grams that the Government would normally provide to any community, or that
would have to be incurred without the project. These excluded costs
include investment in educational and health facilities, and in village
electricity, water supply, telecommunication and streets. Witn respect to
the costs used to calculate the rate of return, of particular interest is
the cost of electricity for the pumping of irrigation water from the main
canal through lifts of 43 and 55 meters to the project area. Electricity
is subsidized for government operated pumping stations for agriculture at a
cost of 9 milliemes per kWh; in the calculations an economic cost estimated
at 35 milliemes (for the project area) has been used. Agricultural labor
is valued at a price (LE 0.60 per day) which is 60 percent of the
prevailing average wage.
65.      Because at the time of project appraisal the desirability of
sugarbeet over other crops had not been fully determined and because there
is an element of uncertainty about when a new beet processing plant would
be established, the agricultural analysis of the project includes an
alternative cropping pattern that excludes sugarbeet. The economic rate of
return with vegetables being grown in the winter instead of sugar beet was
found to be 10.8 percent. If one third of the winter cropped area is
planted in sugar beet, the rate of return was very conservatively estimated
at 9.6 percent. In the case of the sugar beet alternative, when less con-
servative assumptions are used with respect to (a) the extraction rate of
sugar from sugar beet, and (b) the proportion of potatoes and onions
marketed overseas, the rate of return increases from 9.6 percent to over 13
percent. The final decision on whether sugar beet is grown in the proj-
ect area does not need to be made until 1983 and before that time the
Government's study would determine the most desirable alternative (see
paragraph 59 above). Sensitivity analysis, assuming about 20 percent
variation in principal crop values (vegetables and sugar) and inputs
(fertilizer) in each case make about a percentage point variation in the
rate of return. It was also found that if net farm benefits lagged one
year, the rate of return would drop by one percent. All of these
calculations include 60 percent of project costs for which benefits have
been quantified.
66.      The justification of the bilharzia program is based on qualita-
tively determined benefits. It is not possible to assess quantitative
economic benefits of disease control, such as the increase in work produc-
tivity of the infected population, because of the difficulty of isolating
the specific impact of the program from other health programs.
Project Risks
67.      The major risk of the project is that the management and organiza-
tional arrangements will not be adequate to design and execute on time a
project of this size and complexity, nor be able to coordinate effectively
the work of all the organizations involved. The project has been designed,
as far as possible, to minimize this risk. The development works are



- 20 -
staged over a reasonable period of time and include a simple irrigation
design; and arrangements have been made for advance engineering to permit
speed up construction.
68.       The three-tiered organizational arrangement should provide ade-
quate leadership and coordination at the three critical management levels.
The Central Coordination Committee will ensure the timely collaboration of
the Ministry of Irrigation in the construction and maintenance of project
works to ensure sufficient water availability. The Ministry of Agricul-
ture's participation in the Central Committee should facilitate the pro-
vision of necessary extension and research staff support. The Central
Committee is also responsible for ensuring that funds required for the
project are included in the budget of the implementing agencies, which
should help insure local funds are available on a timely basis (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(b)). The Project Unit anid Regional
Implementation Committee, both located in the project area, should be abl]e
to monitor closely and coordinate the project's development and day-to-day
operations.
69.       The possibility that agriculture production may not i'ncrease as
rapidly as predicted is another project risk. The proposed research and
field trials would keep the project management informed of potential soil
and other problems related to cropping. The project provides for a partic-
ularly heavy training program for farmers, and it will be important that
these plans, in addition to the development of extension and research ser-
vices, are effectively implemented.
Environmental Impact
70.       The project would have an overall beneficial impact on the
physical environment and population, transforming the desert into culti-
vated fields. The installation cf a drainage system would keep the water
table at low levels and therefore maintain good hygienic conditions in the
area. Provisions of houses and infrastructure will help create a positive
social environment.  The government is providing for the compensation of
the few remaining Bedouin familie!s who graze their flocks over the project
area during part of the year and who will be displaced by the project.
These families will receive adequate compensation for the land that will no
longer be available for their USE!. The risk of spreading bilharzia in the
area would be minimized by the proposed control program; the molluscicide
to be used is harmless to humans and the chemical biodegradable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between, the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association and the Recommendations of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V Section 1(d' of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributedl to the Executive Directors separately.



- 21 -
72.      Proposed conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) Award of the contract for the reconstruction and repair of the
Nasr Canal (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(a)), and
(ii) Establishment of a project unit and appointment of its Director
General and the heads of the Engineering and Agricultural Sections
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(b)).
73.      I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 25, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  6
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA0E
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)            _
TOTAL           1001.4                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      29.6                                 MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Ab   1970 lb ESTIMATE  b        MIDDLE EAST        lATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  90.0        15C.0     390.0                698.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     298.0       275.0      463.0                545.0                  1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     25.9         33.3      39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9         42.2      44.0                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPL'LATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      62.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                 ..     101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       26.0         33.0      40.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0       1125.0    1343.0                598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.0         42.1      40.2                 44.0                     4i.4
15-64 YRS.                         55.0         54.7      56.3                 52.5                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2        3.5                  3.5                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.5       2.2                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                              6.0          3.6       3.0                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     45.0         39.0      37.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0         15.0      13.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8/c       3.0       2.3                  2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       206.0     187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           9.0      21.1                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0         99,0      91.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  102.0        104,0     109.0                103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          73.0         71.0      75.0                 69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         17.0      19.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      31.0        23.0      18.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0         51 0      54.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..          .      108.0                   ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          .       66.0                 62.5                     65.9
URBAN                               ..           ,.      88.0                 82.9                     80.4
RURAL                               ..          ,.       50.0                 45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           .         ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..           .         ..                   ..                     79.4
RURAL                               ..           .         ..                   ..                     29.6
pOPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2600.0       1910.0    1065.0/d             4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2730.0/d    1640.0/d  1150.0/d              1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            460.0        462.0     470.0                635.5                    480.3
URBAN                               ..        290.0     250.0
RURAL                               ..       2110.0    2090.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
MOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..       5.2
URBAN                               4.8          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..       1.8
URBAN                               1.6          ..
RLRAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      45.7
URBAN                              37.8          ..      77.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      19.0



- 23                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGSj
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0        69.0       72.0                  76.4                    99.7
MALE                 80.0         84.0      87.0                  92.2                    101.0
FEMALE               52.0         53.0      56.0                  59.9                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 16.0        32.0       46.0                 33.3                     34.4
MALE                 23.0         44.0      57.0                  41.9                     33.5
FEMALE                9.0         21.0      34.0                  24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 22.0           19.0      18.0                   9.8                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0        38.0       40.0                 39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                          16.0        25.0       29.0                 25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0           ..      43.5                  39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         4.0        7.5                 15.3                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0       132.0      137.0                139.0                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9        16.0       17.0                 29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    *-        22.0       21.0                 22.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           2.0        ..                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4      9318.2   11124.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3         7.2        8.0                  9.6                     22,2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.4        54.4       51.0                  47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2        18.8       26.0                 23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9         28.0      28.0                  26.1                    31.5
MALE                                 53.2         51.5      51.3                  47.4                    48.9
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1       4.3                   4.7                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6          1.6       1.6                   1.9                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGNEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e        17.4/e,f  22.0/*
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/e       42. 81e f  49. 2/
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/e        7.0/,.f   5.1/                    *
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e        18.7/e.f  14.8Th
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     120.0                262.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      86.0                 140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     163.0                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      72.0                122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      21.0                  22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      25.0                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55; /d Registered, not all practing in the country; /e Rural expenditures; /f 1964-65; LE National,
1974-75.
April, 1980



- 24 -                                                                         ANhNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFIIfTIONS OF SOCIAL. INfDICATOBS
Sae. Althogh the urea ac  dre        fo   sorcs   eorul  judged ohs  -s: a-thoritatine and reliable,  it should also be  otod that  bey nay err be inter-
taccealy   omprale  etose  f se  ackof  taearIod deftities.  and          . eepte use,d by diffeot   onrisI   oletagtedat.h.d.                            ce   ee
theleso. useful oc do-or It  order  of uagnitude, led100   red  .ad        oh.rreieeeIat inatcffrse hras    auis
TAo  ofoencegrops ea () rh  sae of ott  group1_;j   oftesbetcutr   o   2                     nr  greop cith somehat higf,- a-arag   lors   thaoh rcutr   oo
of-rho sujet  euoy   exep   ur'Cpia  Supus-Otoote                            Pg ouuhere  'Middle Inrlm   North Afti. Ir  an    idePs'i   H                ..e heousoIarege
socue-cohcurul uffirotteal-  Ir oho ceferero   greup dta the avrae   ar   opltinwegte          ihetrmea   Pe   ahtdiraet atd sh-u  ooly char.a
dtu   t   sntuiom    ato   ne    evrue    erltn   ater                          ill,o ome  ....nrt.        eoer    Teasserga   taonyusto   n   oaal    setau
of ... itd icato  at aTse-mogthlcunryan  rfeene   rops
Totl-  - Total suft   racmpiigln    oaad-l-d aes                                                    l    muol  od te      eda   ra                 bnyoitnt-i  ~leel.
TrIP Pit CAPITu (Oil) - IfOP omo oa pi~~ta estmats t curren   make  pries  ui-          ?nsti0noehsia   e     ttl   ra0                         omI-Pplno    eil
-.P.,   -lkt  .d kithh.. s.,d,H.    1. Ii. f.,-urha_J    and rua)dnddb'heIrNett tseru   optlbd
1071, and 1978 data.                                                            rehilitanion  oentees.  gositals eye ssttthlishse97s petaanenrly  staf ta
trilty   Inklorm   of coalt.        eqisetpe   apt;1976, 1708 elijfnee  midinife,6era.) ehhofr in'sfar   rodoo   andp pro1 ifed a
eel.lsniad   acr  plvciMPai gnealae   oProi ito               d tospitte, ardrua
POPULOoTIO.9 boil lIThO. IIATiSTICi                                        nobipitete loca  or. rural Hopitale an .       odi.l. an   a_eeoir ceters.d
doto.                                                                    eem  hopitalsdirido   hy th  vither of bed..                 ld.h th             _
dIfferent dein.     io   ofoterara  maYafed              ruprhii off                         hOl lInI                         .h.
lea; 1 f0  -190  qa-ud           IH    pt;  90 1970,cio                              Ontag1iie oSg-sthld  (rersoms eer huihldl  -t toay  urihn.1adrrl
locel, and frealo ifey   eapeiaiShy enAlloing1 at 776.1  1970r. Cnr Par7-                    hdwetllngs,            1- reprtml .pel.lrgeaclde.!i. ectpertann  ntru  tares and
fcrtilryoocdlng   o tro Ro ont   and peat fal  plannin pe oorooontA-es  tr. h.pt.lerri~iito                        b (nreth of delino ffb     na,  ron   ndora
urd ftrilltrp crenda for promotion  porotees.~~-   -1 bityfI,                  HOfU       oa,SIN,anGua  dellgrrsoc iey
the  inibeat ?     is elAol u  the deah rate, ad alto co ageP-tr-tatedo-                    fOC-TOd
suica cns tur.  ThIs  n achived  oop. atrPrilu  cares da :lioe to                 Mntd lhinrolmer -1aAtioa               t-    d--             -         .i!1Idi
th   inlaee - eo   funtereodoiori,abterhtnrilr                                           Pioeyitol-tna,ml  edfmle.  rotitl,rl   ndfel
sent lenol.                                                                     icuntriesoith  unitermal edurstiot eorolluemt ma y sthaceed..  11d0f.   t.ti.it.1perceet.
Pra .h.d -H Oi-yearI Ip-puletyt per ilqu ice klteiso  (100 hoizano rvda                                 Ieea,noainl  n   eoa  tann2neonrt  Prp
in -a      i are,                                                                         usuall  of 12-n  17-pear  of age;co9redpodeticrcirnetaee   eneeP,ll
only.MigVocational ~                                                                              . eeolmm Itreto   eod~     outou   tefuin
Alner),ad  eird    Oper  adonr)c  preraeeofod--e 00-                                              dety  rasdpaiuos   iseuda- nouuja,
,huait  rwhhre(ecr) doa   Annallrowhyrtesott.ta   id-                                              priary..  fecodme levels diiddhytuhr1oftauergn  h
P ulat ionGrwh   Rate (rrctr  - urlHI.har.-Atue   grow1.th rte e9  f  rocpp-                EDUCATINieryrae(ren)-itaeadltfhlotsd ndar)
utnt for       t 19 h0-6 L. 19 h-77  and 1970-ini.                                         Ad      a  pecnaeo   otlautpplainao   byer   n    nr
Cruao sieth rotc  )rertbooesnd)    AncuaG ~~~~~~'tin   ioh f oohouai    hK aid-pearo
popoluslo  lhi..  1970  en  1979 daia                                                      CoeiJMpClOn'
Ccue lachOao  Irn tcoatd -'.! Annua  doatha pe...        ua   ofP.~1  od-pe               ysin    Par  (re  ihuadpplain                      onegrcn   omra   nu
popof ur  iSTI90  ad17 a.                                                                        or   et~im    brsgtproa    nlIeI   unhua                        .here an
her h  y oorul  eprdunin    erIod- If aene      iene      rte't ages_    it  i  for- O_diycetrunec dj.eo. ifusr d  ooc                     f-  l  t -Ys of  .eusuneca forcaI
.nio rrtou    oal   lo-eraeagaoda   0  SO   90IeI17.                                           boaonat   earlpbi  per t'houss                        n- opoatln;ecuetu-_
aitY  Plto,     n-Uera   reronis frnarried -      c T  )-h.    cetgeo  tarietiuo.ie.h.ihedyfsnlo . -                                             1.         Y
onento  chl-ern    g   1-4yen   h  uyme hlrh-oen  devices.t Oh  .eusiers for                                           bhuetdroulmie b-  rtnsfoanera  fo  bonadlIeg.        t
al  srra  ot. uI s_ d   o    o....geaerly puhli1 pe  thtousa.id                                                                      fopleeoo     uCludet.do -cte b.r- eier
POO  0.1 hryD...c:ooo.. noutrioaan l.itIt years  w I.. egisrato  of.....  petiess  in.oftoo7t.i~
lod- of foo  Prnduccicnoerluptioo   (1y6-P-0O   - lndea of0 per  Paiaauu                         rsar Pruain(e tihautand toulpsn_-tbwthaoraeitt.L
prodtly                                                                                                         1 iittin   e 17e primarly to recodia  -teeotw.    _t  ne    des
lonoo   of  ug 1) ouc   are ColhlpatIdcnntinb tr-.ttt   Co.  need                             CIns  uoea   ttaat  nrPns oder-ted  ntenubrn
rraroloef              greaepodclto  ec    oetp" oedO                                            lbti   ol  duie   to   es,  fo ..din  adeonly          t  todineittI-nems
P    aAo, Sterof ...  oio ftc-n  ofld- re0ireen4 y fl) - Cooparethfd fihns1t,d.                                                           'plr-          i,    I,t.I   I
nncr.p oq16alr,               y o  netfoo  nupp ... rnaIlolei  ce fctdn pet np.p.a          ASd.nl              .d..    ..t           ..d
P.    0 day.LAafbleplir   opia   oetI    rdcto,d9oult                                         Tetelp Itohor Prcetithou"andel     coat..a...        ar7-t peiti, itn Idlng~di
h    1950od    6n0l 1960-70, 1970,9ok17078 dora.                                        fu ing  sopyrortog   of  ntotllbrPtc;OhO   91ad1T                            aa
no (nplpn  fo t00 d.y. nd  crh nopl  of fon  in drth...d un aldon. t-                 adcetliy    sooadgna   conaeofitllbrtrn    9
pgploecron 190ot     7,  . all 9cnr ae eutal roedb   N1kpond   fePiTnniO7 Nd  91dt
"P"  crc  1i960  guto   oa    rtotpodpad1  gr9et tfdIn9na8  ant                              Patloip nglun      . atehferer ih  p octal. val   an!d.  female-..Putt'r.
ordnurekunnrcbcotfrot - A'r.of  .-granuf  ocgtalpotrl  coil 1groo  eino,"rd'os"h"labo
Acrd fod  arnp;  96-fl  97-      r  1977. .daic. inh, 171  an6171  ara9Te0rar.lL'-Iaric97oictunooefack
ChoI  (aoulk) trouoro-ot "Pcrtuud  1nx1dahanrh    oLI orotto   oa   u
agogroph-k ytao1od, to nikdre,       I  rhopi    nfc  creup:  for rout   anno_ying" FI -ro-        J fft;dtf.I--                          -YI           b.   lb         i-
cr10ly Pot  dairnd _    00  fl0a_   ah'ou L ,lSh   I.(I    ar  19I7 Out1.h1d1 IIIT...LTIg
ofd ago p00d Phenun    1199uco10 birthsh                                                     - Let Ina1ti o     d iAhotluce   tort  Icn  Lor_  fpP    ypar  tof -f..   P.bo  a.lOua
ot-leiotadltadoqnarerdhy  plu r         nneeri a 1 ro   nc   cotot1i   o
ef  heo  rt .0-oo   ep_d-t  u.  i  o  o-rb y  ao  a .. dolorrlrlc   o   eot  Itn   oo   con-yrdo   oeaeprtpt
I c 'trunne ntandpunt lneatcd tnt noro -0.0d rf cotern fnnnialhdicg soy ho
ocoo_dro ro    I      dln  uohOnproanccohlr  ocn  of61  th5 c 197o0 c  sd r1 ral8 O-a pr bntl. .incmt.t.                    ounn         ra   enlrdrnd   ooteu
dco'ouooopri      acpo-      notue-     oofpat oIII  day -r-                the H.on AOR   ORCiEdorltnSlnAoluoPvurnosCre(pcnt    or
d-sr   .A-r ubcru       pli r -pt c- nenolut on-to -al-fotnbio                               an  nurol F- Poth-t of PoulatIo   furb   ucfrl ra oti-    oII     ena 'ih clui    poe'g
cc-,oto'tcrotu                ,        NI   ,p,li,cu, moo         oroIfoL,                      .. ...goe.. 1ydbt                       _   igh..i-                   td.t,I
q000   htuorsfpd o,(rrf.d _          ib  .r'atadrualon dhncuoi..R.qi-                          Dfhroui                    H..liE-I- -p..I;'6,17                                .
o' I    oh' tA  rot.d noc0rcpuopnhyIcu.  I-EconoadrooODtaLooo
con   -o-.r,.dcor..  cooo  uu  oopour,too  ccc.loo   toacrob                                         snomO   inOsnt  nf r19r7trodtouoten
ei:    d. tc "..i0i.  I-i-ono.cnos..c-rc-c- r.d..0 . on'h-                      .                                                      yrl  1



Popol.tonl:  41  Illion (mid-1979)                                                               -   25    -                                                           ANNEX I
GNP Per Capit  - USS460                                                                                                                                                  xge         6
EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amourt
Illion USS                       ACTUAL ANNUAL GROWTH RATE (at cOnstant 1975 prices)
(at currcnt prIces)
1979                        1975        976     1977       1978        '979      19800'
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Grosso D-entc Prod-ct/a                      7307.0                        8.4       11.3       6.1        9.0       890         7.0
Agricultu-e                               3844.0                        3.5        1.5      -2.9        5.6        3.9        2.5
I,dustry S Petroleum                     5696.0                        19.4       20.0      10.1       9.2        8.4        10.4
ServIces                                  7264.0                        5.8       12.5       8.8  -   10.8         9.8        6.o
Consumptlon                                 14893.0                        0.4        3.1       6.3        4.5       14.0        9.3
Gro-s  Inven                                 4988.0                       65.0        4.3      -2.2       28.0        1.3        8.0
Ecports Af GNFS                              5315.0                       19.4       23.4      10.9       -3.5       -S.2        9.3
lIports of GNFS                              7889.0                       23.7       -3.9       3.2        4.2        7.1       11.0
Gross Nati-nal SavIng                        348Z.0                       76.3      102.0       0.2       20.7        4.9
PR ICES
GOP GnflFtor  a/                                                         100.0      105.4    109.1       104.0      104.7      T21.5
E-cha-ge Rate                                                              2.15       1.97      1.75       1.54       1.43       1.43
Share oP GOP at h rket PrIces (%)                                                                     Avera-   Arnual Increase (0) at  -ont-ar prices
lat current~orices 5                                                                                   15  S Prices             -975 PrIvet
1960      1970       1975       1980                                                                           0-17               1970-1975   l975-1980
Grost Domest-c Product
A ricolt_re                           27.9       25.3      28.2       21.3                                                                              4.7                5.1           2.1
Ind-stry G Petroleum                 23.7       26.1       25.4       34.7                                                                              3.0               2.6          i1.4
ServIces                             42.9       40.8       42.8       39.5                                                                              6.3                4.4           9.7
CANNe-ptlo-                              87.3      90.6       90.4       88.8                                                                              4.4                8.0           7.4
Gross In-etment                          13.3      13.9       32.3       29.5                                                                              5.8                4.2           7.4
Evport of GNFS                           19.5      14.2       21.5       43.9                                                                              4..               22.8           6.5
Import of GNFS                          20.1      18.8       44.1       62.1                                                                              1.1               13.5           5.0
Gr-ss National SavInq                    12.9       7.7        0.9       17.O                                                                              7.2               17.2          22.3
As Sof GDP
1960      1970       1975       198
PUBLIC FINANCE
Carrnt"reven                                        18.5      21.3       34.1       30.0
Cu rren -expenditre                                21.5       22.0       39.9       34.9
S-rpi -  (-r) or def.ici   -                       -3.0o      -0 .7      -5.8       -4.9
Capital  -epedit-re                                 11.0 3    -.1        16.6       2.95
For-igt finan,l.g                                     -        0.0       56.0        9.2
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85        1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNI ,rowth rate (%)                                  4.5        5.0        8.6
GNP per capita gro. th rate (7)                       1.9       2.7        6.3
En-rgy con--rption 9rowth rate (7)                  54.9(1)   14.9(1)   13.2(1)
ICOR                                                   -          -        3.6
Marginal savings rate                                   -         -        0.46
Irport  l-sticlty                                    0.9        1.7        0.9
ia    Ac morket prices; co-ponents are expressed at factor cost ard will not add doe to e;clusion of net
indirect Ioces and tubsidies.
/b    Effective  rate computed as a -eiqhted average of the official aed parallel market rates.
j     Estimates
J.1uy 31, 1980
(I)   ElectrIcIty only.



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Amount (million
US$ at current       Annual Growth Rates At Constant 1978 Prices
prices
1979          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980 el
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports           3835          17.4      7.1      3.0   - 1.1      0.4      6.0
-  Primary                  3245          12.0    25.4    17.1   - 2.4    12.4        4O0
-  Manufactures              590          24.5   -14.1   -20.9       2.2   -28.9    -5.1
Merchandise Imports           6919          22.5   - 3.5   - 4.6       5.8    10.9
-  Food                     1740          29.5    19.2   -29.8    22.4    15.1        9.8
-  Petroleum                 243         -34.4   -23.7   -53.1       2.8    16.8       -
-  Machinery and            2801          62.6    24.8    14.8       1.8    27.4    10.0
Equipment
-  Others                   2135          20.2   -26.2      6.1      1.2   - 7.8      4.9
PRICES
Export Price Index                          81.4    88.0    94.7   100.0   1.32.0   190.n
Import Price Index                          81.8    85.7    92.4   100.0   1L3.7   128.5
Terms of Trade Index                        99.5   102.7   102.5   100.0   1:33.7   147.9
Composil:ion of Merchandise Trade    Average Annual Increase
(% at current prices)                at constant 1978 prices
1975               1980                  1975-1980
Exports                      100.0              100.0                        3.2
Primary                     53.3               88.0                      12.0
Manufactures                46.7               12.0                    - 6.4
Imports                      100.0              100.0                       4.5
Food                        23.6               26.2                       5.5
Petroleum                    6.9                4.2                    - 28.8
Machinery and               23.7               35.7                      2Q.8
Equipment
Others                      45.8               33.9                    -  4.2
July 31, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE 0? PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(aillions USS at current prices)
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978    1979    1980 e/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non Factor Services                         2251     2503      3319      3949     4053    5315    678n
-  of which merchandise f.o.b.                                1818     1875      2169     2404      2512    3835    508n
Imports of Goods and Non Factor Services                        3959     5141      5182     5765      6492    7889    q6n0
-  of which merchandise c.i.f.                               3618      4608      4659     4792      5434    6919    8400
Net Factor Income                                                 70       122      413       470     1098    1067       785
Current Account Balance                                       -1638    -2516    -145n    -1346    -1289   -1507   -2035
Private Direct Investment                                         87      225       444       477      439      710     Ono
MLT Loans (Net)                                                 1725     2985      1680      2660     2n78    1420    1625
- official                                                    1515     2881      1556     2580      IQ57    1125    13n5
- private                                                     210       104       124       80       171      295     32n
Other Capital (Net)                                           -  97    - 752    - 628    -1600    -1113   - 586   - 490
Changes in Reserves                                               10       58      - 46     -iqi      - 63    - 37
International Reserves                                           355      296       342       533      596      633
- of which gold                                                103      103       103      103       1n2      in?
Reserves as Months Imports                                       1.1      0.7       0.8       1.1      1.1      1.0
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                             2227     3612      2305     3349      2812    1985      2350
Offical Grants                                                1303     1076       792      445       345
Concessional Loans                                             120     1444       668     1855      1600
-  DAC                                                         55       199       421      591       799
-  OPEC                                                          3     1142       171      137        03
-  IDA                                                          12       49        42       42        45
-  Others                                                       50       54        34     1085       663
Non Concessional Loans                                         804     1092       845      1049      867
-  official export credits                                    379       639       214       24        44
-  IBRD                                                        -         14        36       37        57
-  Other multilateral                                          -          6        -       256        18
-  Private                                                    425       433       595      732       748
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                  2810     4793      5724     8051      9879   11000
-  official                                                   1963     3852      4674     6761      8455    0450
-  private                                                    847       941      1050     1290      1424    1550
Undisbursed Debt                                                1575     2370      2964     4434      4248    45n0
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                                            516      594       664      1095     1207    1370    1840
-  Interest                                                     7n      114       110      339       386     400      615
Debt Service Ratio  2/                                          21.0     21.4      16.8     23.5      22.0    20.2    22.6
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                               6.3      4.7       5.1       5.1      4.6      n.a.
Average Maturity of New Loans                                   17.2     18.5      23.3      18.7     27.9      n.a.
e/ Estimate
1/  Total amount of concessional and non-concessional loans is US$1875 million.   No further
breakdown is available.
2/ Total debt service payment/exports of goods and services excluding exports by foreign
oil companies.
3/ Includes service payment due on Arab loans
July 31, 1980



-28 -                                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1:0
THE STATUS OF LANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(September 30, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                  less cancellations
Numbers            FY          Borrower       Purpose                                Bankc      IDA    Undisbursed
Ln  243-UAR          60            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5        --
Cr  181-UAR          70            UAR          Nile Delta Drainage                      ---    26.0          1.8
Cr  284-UAR          72            ARE          Railways I                                       30.0
Cr  393-UAR          73            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                     --      36.0         2.7
Cr  412-UAR          73            ARE          Development Industrial Bank 1/           --      15.0
Cr  423-UAR          74            ARE          Cottcn Ginning Rehabilitation            --      18.5        2.8
Cr  437-UAR          74            ARE          Population I                             --       5.0
Cr  484-UAR          74            ARE          Talkla Fertilizer                        --      20.0
Cr  524-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ird. Imports                         ---     35.0         0.3
Ln 1062-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ir.d. Imports                       35.0        --         0.4
Ln 1064-EGT          75            SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0        --        1-.1
Ln 1085-EGT          75            ARE          Toureh Cement                          40.0        --         2.7
Ln 1098-EGT          75            ER           Railways II                            37.0        --         8.2
Cr  548-EGT          75            ARE          Telecommunications I                     ---    30.0          (.9
Cr  576-EGT          76            ARE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/        ---    25.0          0.3
Ln 1239-EGT          76            APA          AlexEndria Port                        45.0        --        28.5
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76             ARE          Fruit. and Vegetable Dev.              50.0        --        34.9
Cr  637-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                  --      40.0        19'.2
Ln 1285-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                10.(        --        1(0.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                 52.0        __        23.4
Ln 1369-EGT          77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                56.0        --        37.7
Cr  681-EGT          77            ARE          Education I                              --     25.0          4.5
Cr  719-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                   ---     27.0         9.1
Ln 1439-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                 27.0        --        27, 0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                 12.0        __        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77            EEA          Regional Electrification               48.0        __        20.9
Ln 1456-EGT          77            ARE          Industrial Imports                     70.0        --        23.6
Ln S-005-EGT         77            ARE          Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.         2.5        __         0.8
Ln 1482-EGT          78            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                  100.(        --        33.3
Cr S-20-EGT          78            ARE          Water Supply Engineering                 --       2.0          --
Cr  774-EGT          78            ARE          Telecommunications II                    --      53.0        52.3
Ln 1533-EGT          78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III        40.0        --        20.5
Cr  830-EGT          78            ARE          Agricultural Development                 ---     32.0        30.0
Cr  831-EGT          78            ARE          Urban Development                        --     14.0         13.7
Cr  850-EGT          79            ARE          Popul]ation II                           --      25.0        23.8
Cr  868-EGT          79            ARE          Education II                                    40.0         37.4
Ln  S-14-EGT         79            ARE          New V7alley Phosphate Engineering
andl Technical Assistance           11.0        --         3.5
Cr  909-EGT          79            ARE          Tour:''sm-                                      32.5         32.4
Ln 1732-EGT          79            ARE          Gulf of Suez Gas                       75.0        --        61.6
Cr  935-EGT          79            ARE          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power         --     37.0         37.0
Ln 1733-EGT          79            EEA          Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 4/102.0           --       102.0
Cr  988-EGT          80            ARE          Agro:industries                                 45.0         45.0
Ln 1804-EGT          80            DIB          Deve:Lopment Industrial Bank IV        50.0        --        50.0C
Ln 1837-EGT          80            ARE          Textiles II                            69.0        --        69.0
Ln 1842-EGT          80            ARE          MIDB                                   30.0        --        30.0
Cr 1024-EGT          80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                   --      50.0        50.0
Ln 1849-EGT          80            ARE          Pulp and Paper                         50.'D       --        50.0
Ln 1886-EGT          80            EEA          Powe:^ III 3/                           7.0        --         7.0
Cr 1052-EGT          80            EEA          Power III 3/                                   120.0        120.0
Cr 1069-EGT          81            ARE          Education III3/                                  40.1        40.1
Totals                                                                               1125.0    823.1        978.2
Of which has been repaid                                                               62.3        .4
Total now outstanding                                                                1062.7    822.7
Amount sold                                                   7.5
Of which has been repaid                                      7.4                       0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                       1062.6    783.2
1/  Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Signed on November 7, 1980.
4/  Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0



- 29 -                                 ANNEX I1
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(July 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year         Obligor                  Type of Business                            Loan         Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                               4.80          .835         5.635
1977         Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry                   0.43         0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                   20.0          3.00         23.0
1979         Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                      5.97        1.52           7.49
Company
1979         Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                      1.93          .55          2.48
Company
1980         Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                           30.0            -          30.0
1980         Crocodile Tourist        Crocodile Tourist Project
Project Company                                                    4.41          .857         5.267
67.51        6.962        74.472



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1970; C'Losing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 5 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. This work has been delayed, in part,
because of a shortage of cement. Work is complete on other major
components including some 1,700 km surface drains and eleven pumping
stations.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 mil'Lion Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closinp Date: July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some 1,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area. Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of ti]le
drains is about two-thirds complete. Progress on this activity has been
slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement.  Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as scheduled.
Progress on procurement is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982.  Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Indu-strial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of Deciember 20, 1974:
Effectiveness Date: March 19, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.3 million and $0.4 milliDn remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Any uncommitted funds will be cancelled by the
closing date.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing nate:
December 31, 1980
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-Financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items
are already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further
delayed project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is
expected to be only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date; August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1980. A draft decree which would establish
a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways inter alia
considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries is
under discussion.
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May
16, 1975; Effectiveness Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to the
Telecommunications II project. Physical installations have been about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement and in building construction.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 110
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Project; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 19,75; Effectiveness
Date: February 19, 1976; Closing ])ate; April 30, 1981
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been
disbursed as of October 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Pori: Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19
1976; Effectiveness Date; August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress on the executiou of the main civil works znd dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of rmost equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the project is now
expected to be completed only by June 1982; the closing date of the loan
will, therefore, have to be extendLed.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 197G; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over t:wo years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed
component has major problems, which the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials to agree on revrised modes of management. The
Agricultural Development Lending lInit in Bank Misr is attempting, with
assistance from the World Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers
proceed with their respective investments, and to identify additional
sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded to allow financing of
agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT -- Upper Egypt Drainage II P'roject; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit both of June 11, 1976,.
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date; June 30, 1983
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on
some 1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is
about 55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans,
field drainage is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall
has resulted from a delay of almost two years with supply and erection of
USAID financed equipment for three PVC pipe-making factories. Two of these
factories are now in production anid the third is almost ready; this should
accelerate the installation of tile drains.  Contracts for these drains
have already been awarded covering the entire project area.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1292-ECT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No difficulties are
foreseen in financing this, although some government equity contribution
would be required in the next two years to supplement the companies'
internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial covenants as
well as project c6sts. Early management problems have now been overcome
and both companies have developed effective project implementation units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded
in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
is expected to start shortly. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts
have been completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts
are now being financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being
made on meter replacement and reduction of waste and AWA's regularly
submitted reports reflect good general progress. An application for a
general tariff increase is with the Governor for consideration by the
Alexandria Local Council but approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical
assistance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been
procured and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be
constructed 17 are completed and are operational, and the remainder will be
operational by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being
re-equipped are operational. About 82 percent of Credit amount has been
disbursed and nearly all of the remainder has been committed.



-- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT -. Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and UJS$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Daite: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion
achieved on some 264,000 feddans out: of a total area of 815,000 feddans.
For construction of four new and renovation of two existing pumping
stations, the contractors have started civil works and procurement of
equipment following award of contracts in December 1979. The Bank has
cleared the award of four contracts for installation of field drainage
covering 75 percent of the project: area of 400,000 feddans. The
establishment of a KfW financed PVC pipe making factory has been delayed
and this could further delay the project.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Physical progress is gooc. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date-. June 30, 1982
As of September 30, 1980, about $40.0 million has been disbursed
and about $50.7 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the
total loan. Utilization of the lcan proceeds has been slow mainly because
of delays in procurement of equipment for public sector firms.
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Proiect; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2., 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies.  The closing date wa,s
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a
rehabilitation and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln, No. 1533-ECT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily. As
of October 31, 1980, $19.5 million had been disbursed and the loan had been
fully committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date; September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and
materials to be financed under the Credit have been processed.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Implementation is about a year behind appraisal schedule.
Satisfactory progress has now been made in the procurement of tractors,
project-related training, monitoring and evaluation, and field preparation
for implementation.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date; December
31, 1982
There has been significant progress in the staffing of the project
unit. Implementation of the shelter components is, however, seriously
behind schedule, partly due to lack of understanding regarding the project
and partly due to lack of local design capability. IDA supervision
missions are being intensified to help improve progress.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction on over 50 (of 153 sites) is underway. Implementation of the
training program has started, while IEC implementation has had a slow
start-up, and about 40% of the home visiting program has been implemented.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the 23
institutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed
by mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE



36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of l0
institutes are expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. All
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for about 50
percent.  All technical assistance has been contracted and implementatiol
is about 9 months ahead of schedule.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date. October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and
erection has started at mine site; laboratory texts of phosphate -rock are
being carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Project implementation :s in progress.  The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor has started work in the field.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - IUS$35 million - Shoubrah El Khneima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 19'9; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment are under
preparation and likely to be issued by late 1980.
Cr. No. 988-ECT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1985
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments under the loan which have just begun had reached about
$9.0 million as of September 1980; no disbursements have yet taken place.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date;
June 30, 1985
Action otn effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date;
December 31, 1985
Effectiveness action underway. Contractor has mobilized. Fifteen
km out of the 55 km high pressure pipeline has been laid.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (not
yet effective); Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-EGT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date; (not yet effective);
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                                     April 1978-January 1980
(b) Agencies preparing the project:                 Ministries of- Land Reclama-
tion, Irrigation, Agricul-
ture, Health and Education
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:         October/November 1977
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                    April 1978
(e) Date of departure of appraisal mission:         January 1980
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:             October 1980
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                  May 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.       Conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i)  Conclusion of the contract for the reconstruction .and repair of
the Nasr Canal (para. 40).
(ii)  Establishment of a project unit and appointment of its Director
General and the Heads of the Engineering and Agricultural Sections
(para. 48).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
2.       Other conditions:
(i)   Completion by the Ministry of Irrigation before the end of 1983 of
all works required to secure the supply of water for the project
area (para. 40).
(ii)   Establishment of a Regional Implementation Committee by the end of
1981 to assist the Project Unit (para. 49).
(iii)   Application by the PBDAC of interest rate not less than 8 percent
and down payment of at least 10 percent for medium-term loans for
purchasing farm machinery. Government would on-lend to PBDAC at 5
percent for 10 years after not more than 5 years grace (para. 53).
(iv)   Completion, by end of 1982, of a study to determine desirability
of sugar beet over alternative crops (para. 59).
(v)   Government to recover from the settlers the annual cost of
maintenance of irrigation and drainage works within the project
area; and over a 25-year period, interest free, the capital costs
of land development and the settler's house. The government would
also take into consideration, in assessing the land tax, the
recovery of the operation and maintenance cost of the main
irrigation and drainage facilities of the project (para. 62).



A              i                                                                      .                                                                                   97



IBRD 15130
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NEW LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
West Nubariya                                                                          s                             Fm46
Ma,yut  F.-~
+~~~              ~ ~~~~~~~                                                               ~~~~~                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rz yo  u IF I  / 
, /          t. . A- R--d^ f.- th.f9X                                                                                   <     ,, 
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -              \     / Aoulr[X                                                                      )          >    f
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .00                                                                      y  
\~~~~~~~~~~ /U Aro/u  omn                                                                                                                   ana__W%                              ,\IAA
--                        .&'N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-1-4
N                                           .N
-                                                  NZZOZN.                   Second Nry  Ccnols                        1    2    3         5                       .. .(
o                    A          - _  -'N;                                                             ~ub e Wuter M n 1NS          e wyel 4    _      <        4-        1  <    =        <=
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il
o0ZX N.~    N         MarFU.cF re
Area ReserUed for the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~M  stt- ,I.g,
A-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD
N          A A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                         E=A-- .l fl.. rp
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5--  -~AA AEPABLI
A                                                                                                                                      A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 '
-.     D AM A



