OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS      CREDIT NUMBER 1083 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(New Land Development/West Nubariya Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1083 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Fz                       , 1981, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter     ailed the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the African Devel-
opment Fund (hereinafter called ADF) a loan (hereinafter called
ADF Loan) to assist in financing Part E of the Project, on the
terms and conditions included in an agreement (hereinafter called
ADF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
ADF; and
(C) the Borrower has established within its Ministry of Land
Reclamation, for the purpose of coordinating the activities of
the Borrower's agencies involved in Project implementation, a
central coordination committee (hereinafter called the Central
Coordination Committee);
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Preamble to this Agreemnt and in the General Conditions have the


﻿-2-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project area" means a net area of about 24,000 feddans
adjacent to the already reclaimed lands in the West Nubariya
area, located in the northwestern part of Egypt;
(b) "Project Unit" means the project unit to be established
pursuant to the provisions of Part B (1) of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;
(c) "MLR" means the Ministry of Land Reclamation of the
Borrower, which undertakes the major responsibility for the
implementation of the Project;
(d) "Project Center" means the village to be selected as the
Project Center from among the main villages established under the
Project;
(e) "PBDAC" means the Principal Bank for Development and
Agricultural Credit, a banking institution of the Borrower estab-
lished and operating under the Borrower's Law No. 117 of 1976;
(f)  "BDAC" means the Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit operating in the Project area, an affiliate of PBDAC,
established in accordance with PBDAC's Law;
(g) "Implementing Agencies" means all the agencies of the
Borrower involved in the implementation of the Project as provided
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and which include, in addition
to MLR, the Project Unit and PBDAC, the Ministries of Irrigation
(MOI), Agriculture (MOA), Health (MOH) and Education (MOE), the
Rural Electricity Authority (REA), the Alexandria General Water
Authority (AGWA) and the Regional Implementation Committee
(RIC);
(h) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and PBDAC pursuant to the
provision of Section 3.07 of this Agreement, and the term
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided in said Agreement;
(i) "Egyptian Pounds" means the currency of the Borrower;
and
(j) "Project preparation advance" means the Project prepara-
tion advance provided by the Association to the Borrower pursuant


﻿-3-
to an exchange of letters between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, dated January 11, 1980.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 60,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project preparation advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid service charges thereon. The unwith-
drawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project preparation
advance shall be cancelled as of the same date, and the balance of
the amount of the Credit allocated to Category (7) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be reallocated,
as of the same date, to Category (5) of said table.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
-f Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-4-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1991, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project (sub-
stantially tarough its Ministry of Land Reclamation with the
assistance of the other Implementing Agencies as stated in Sched-
ule 3 to this Agreement) with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, agricultural, financial
and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all governmental and
administrative action required to ensure that each of the Imple-
menting Agencies shall duly perform, through adequate and suit-
ably qualified staff, the functions assigned to it under Schedule
3 to this Agreement towards the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall empower the Central Coordi-
nation Committee, inter alia, to: (a) approve the annual work
plans under the Project; (b) ensure that funds required for the
execution of the Project are included in the proposed annual
budgets of the Implementing Agencies; and (c) review the execu-
tion   of the Project and contact the Implementing Agencies in
connection with the performance of their responsibilities stated
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause MLR to employ in
accordance with a time-schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association, and in consultation with the concerned Implement-
ing Agencies: (a) engineering consultants in order to assist in
the preparation of the detailed design and tender documents
and in the supervision of construction works under the Project;
(b) agricultural consultants in order to assist in the preparation
and implementation of agricultural research and extension programs
for the Project area; and (c) technical and managerial consul-
tants on a short-term basis in order to assist in solving special
problems encountered during the period of Project execution, all
with qualifications and experience and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure the establishment, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement
and by December 31, 1981, of the Project Regional Implementation
Committee and the assignment to it of the responsibilities stated
in said Schedule.
Section. 3.06. In order to secure the irrigation water
required for the Project area, the Borrower shall: (a) ensure
the completion by its Ministry of Irrigation, not later than
December 31, 1983, of (i) the reconstruction of the lining of the
Nasr Canal on about 5 km and repair of the remaining lined part to
km 27, (ii) the enlargement of the canal Riyah-el Nassiri from km
20 to km 73, (iii) the extension of the Nasr Canal to km 67, and
(iv) the construction of pumping stations 4 and 5; (b) review
regularly with the Association the irrigation water requirements
for such area; and (c) take all action necessary to ensure the
supply to such area of such quantity of irrigation water as shall
be necessary for obtaining optimum yields from the selected
cropping patterns.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure:
(a) the procurement of the agricultural machinery provided
under Part C (1) of the Project by MLR; and
(b) the distribution, for use only in the Project area, of
such machinery by PBDAC, through its BDAC operating in the Project
area, to farmers or groups of farmers (including agricultural
cooperatives) or individuals residing in the Project area. For
this purpose, the Borrower shall relend to PBDAC out of the


﻿-6-
proceeds of the Credit the equivalent of the amount allocated
under Category (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, or such other amount as shall be
allocated from time to time to said Category, under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement acceptable to the Association pursuant to which
PBDAC shall, inter alia:
(i) repay the equivalent in terms of Egyptian Pounds
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent (such
equivalent to be determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal of the proceeds from the Credit
Account) in no more than ten equal or approximately
equal annual installments after a grace period of
not more than five years;
(ii) pay interest at the rate of 5% per annum on the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time; and
(iii) further relend, through its BDAC operating in the
Project area, the equivalent in terms of Egyptian
Pounds of the amount so relent to it to farmers and
groups of farmers (including agricultural coopera-
tives) or other individuals in the Project area for
the purchase of such machinery. Amounts so relent
shall represent not more than 90% of the purchase
price of such machinery and shall carry an interest
rate of not less than 8% per annum and a repayment
period of not more than ten years, including a
grace period of not more than one year.
Section 3.08. (a) In order to secure the funds required for
the implementation of the bilharzia control program under Part E
of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) take all action required
to ensure the conclusion of the ADF Loan Agreement within six
months from the date of this Agreement; or (ii) provide the
Association, within such period, with alternative arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, for financing said Part of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Health to
exchange views with the Association in regard to the most appro-
priate drug to be procured under Part E of the Project, for the
chemotherapeutic treatment of S. mansoni.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall enact, by December 31, 1981,
the selection criteria for settlers in the Project area, which
shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby such settlers shall
be recuired to participate in training and educational programs,
and, when necessary, in the land reclamation works under the
Project for a specified period.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the


﻿-8-
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing
Agencies to maintain separate Project accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Implementing Age9cies
to furnish annually, through MLR, to the Association a statement
in such form and details as the Association shall reasonably
request, covering all expenditures and sources of funds in respect
to the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (a) ensure the carrying
out by MLR, through the Project Unit, of monitoring and evaluation
activities of all engineering, agricultural and social aspects of
the Project; and (b) ensure the preparation and the furnishing to
the Association, during the period of Project implementation and
thereafter for the next 5 years, of an annual report covering
the findings of such activities and the analysis thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain within MOH a supervision and
evaluation unit, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
which shall be responsible for the overall supervision and evalua-
tion of the bilharzia control program under Part E of the Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure that MLR will
complete, by December 31, 1982, a revision of existing studies
regarding the cropping pattern for the Project area, with a view
to determining the pattern most economically advantageous and the
desirability of sugar beet growing in such area; and (b) exchange
views with the Association on the findings of such revisions and
take appropriate steps for the implementation of its recommenda-
tions.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause all the Implementing
Agencies, each within its respective jurisdiction, at all times
to operate and maintain in accordance with programs or requests
made by the Project Unit all machinery, equipment, buildings,
roads and facilities provided under the Project and to make
promptly all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance
with appropriate engineering, agricultural and financial
practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall (a) take into consideration,
in the assessment of the land tax to be collected from settlers in
the Project area, the recovery of the operation and maintenance
costs of the main irrigation and drainage facilities serving the
Project area, and (b) recover from said settlers (i) on an annual
basis, the maintenance cost of the irrigation and drainage
facilities within the Project area, and (ii) after a grace period
for the first three cultivation years, the full capital cost of
land reclamation works and of settlers' houses in the Project
area over a period of not more than 25 years.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its agencies responsible
for potable water, electricity and telephone services in the
Project area to charge consumers in said area in accordance with
said agencies' normal billing rates applicable to rural areas.
Section 4.06. Upon the completion of the b,.lharzia control
program referred to in Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause its Ministry of Health to continue such program as part
of its activities, and shall provide said Ministry with all such
equipment and materials as shall be required for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has concluded the contract or contracts for
the construction works referred to in Section 3.06 (a) (i) of this
Agreement; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the Borrower has established the Project Unit and has
appointed suitably qualified and experienced persons as its
director general and heads of its engineering and agricultural
sections.
Section 5.02. The date                 , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Sectiok 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and the Under Secretary
of Economy for International Finance of the Borrower are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY                348 GAFEC UN
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By       0-40 &L/44               4
'Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/I    gA
r 1Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                    40%
(a) irrigation works         7,240,000
(b) other works             30,800,000
(2) Goods, equipment and          1,990,000         100% of for-
materials for other                            eign expendi-
than Parts C (1) and                           tures, 100%
E of the Project                               of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory and
75% of local
expenditures
(3) Goods under Part E            9,900,000         100% of for-
of the Project                                 eign expendi-
tures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory and
75% of local
expenditures
(4) Machinery under               2,130,000         100% of for-
Part C (1) of                                  eign expendi-
Project                                        tures, 100%
of local ex-
penditures ex-
factory and
75% of local
expenditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Consultants'                  2,820,000         85%
services
(6) Overseas training                80,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(7) Project prepara-                760,000         100%
tion advance
(8) Unallocated
5,180,000
TOTAL        60,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Disbursement under Category (3) in the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be made only after the Borrower
(a) shall have concluded the ADF Loan Agreement, or (b) shall have
provided the Association with the financing arrangements referred
to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to


﻿- 14 -
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount *of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the CTedit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under thexDevelopment Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are (a) to increase agricul-
tural production, (b) to improve income distribution and generate
employment by selecting from overpopulated rural areas of small-
holders for settlement in the Project area, and (c) to initiate a
process for restructuring and strengthening agricultural institu-
tions in the reclaimed lands. The Project consists of:
Part A:   Irrigation, Drainage and Land Levelling
The carrying out of irrigation and drainage works required
for the reclamation of a net area of about 24,000 feddans of
desert land for intensive agriculture. Such works consist of:
(1) extension of the Nasr Canal from km 55 to km 67;
(2) construction of off-take structures in the Nasr
Canal and of an irrigation distribution system;
(3) construction of a regional main drain;
(4) construction of a field drainage system and a network
of open branch drains;
(5) primary land levelling, to be followed by the construc-
tion of the tertiary canals and field channels; and
(6) final land levelling after the initial leaching.
Part B:   Settlement of Smallholders
Settlement of about 4,000 families in, the Project area in
16 satellite villages and 4 main villages (one of such to be
selected as the Project Center), to be established under the
Project. Such settlement involves:
(1) construction of a road network linking the new villages
to the Project center and to main population centers,
and of village roads and streets;
(2) establishment of a domestic water supply network,
including the construction of storage reservoirs
and booster stations;


﻿- 16 -
(3) establishment of a distribution network for the supply
of electricity to the Project area, including the
installation of 11 KV lines, low voltage network and
street lighting;
(4) establishment of telephone network, including the
installation of overhead lines, manual and central
exchanges;
(5) construction of houses for settlers;
(6) construction of buildings and provision of equipment
and facilities for agricultural services; and
(7) provision of facilities for community services, includ-
ing:
(a) construction of schools in 20 villages iR the
Project area, comprising classrooms, workshops and
other facilities for students in grades 1 through
9, and one secondary school for students in grades
10 through 12;
(b) establishment of a rural health center at the
Project center, a rural health unit at each main
village (other than the Project Center) and a
branch clinic at each satellite village;
(c) construction of buildings for social services;
and
(d) construction of staff houses.
Part C:   Agricultural Machinery
(1) Provision for sale to farmers or groups of farmers or
other individuals in the Project area, for use only in
the Project area, of about 150 tractors together with
implement sets (three of such tractors shall be allo-
cated for training and research purposes), about 40
threshers and about 40 trailers.
(2) Establishment, equipping and operating of a major
workshop for tractor repair and overhaul at the Project


﻿- 17 -
Center and a satellite workshop for tractor minor repair
at each main village (other than the Project Center).
(3) Provision of sample machinery for testing purposes.
Part D:   Field Trials, Training
(1) The establishment of a training farm and the conducting
on it of cropping procedures for the Project area.
(2) Provision of facilities for continuing the field trials
currently undertaken on the Maryut Farm.
(3) Provision of training fellowships for extensionists and
subject matter specialists.
Part E:   Bilharzia Control
The provision, for supporting the current programs for
bilharzia control in middle and upper Egypt and for extending such
program to the Giza Governorate and to the Project area, of
about 950 tons of molluscicide, 2,000,000 courses of Metrifonate
and 260,000 courses of an appropriate drug for S. mansoni, in
addition to transport and related equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Responsibilities of the Implementing Agencies
Except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the
Association or warranted by practical necessities, the Borrower
shall adopt such procedures as shall ensure the carrying out by
the Implementing Agencies of their responsibilities towards the
execution of the Project in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
A.   At the Central Level
The general responsibility of carrying out the Project
rests with:
(1) The Ministry of Land Reclamation (MLR)
MLR shall be responsible for:
(a) the overall planning and coordination of Project activi-
ties, utilizing the services of the Central Coordination Commit-
tee;
(b) the preparation of the detailed design for irrigation
and drainage works and, in collaboration with the concerned
Implementing Agencies, the design for roads, domestic water
supply, Project buildings and settlers' houses, electrification
and telecommunications works;
(c) the preparation of all tender documents and the execu-
tion of all contracts, for the procurement of works or goods
required for the implementation of the Project, with the exclusion
of Part A (1), (2) and (3) and Part E of the Project;
(d) the employment of consultants;
(e) the carrying out, with the assistance of MOA and other
appropriate agencies, of programs for agricultural research,
extension and training of settlers;
(f) the adoption of criteria for selection of settlers and
the carrying out of settlement operations, including the provision
of financial assistance in the initial period of settlement
(including the provision of food to settlers), administrative


﻿- 19 -
assistance for the establishment of cooperatives and the carrying
out of plans for community development and for other social
activities;
(g) the monitoring and evaluation of all Project activities,
except Part E thereof;
(h) the distribution of irrigation water within the Project
area;
(i) the maintenance of all irrigation and drainage facili-
ties, except the Nasr Canal and the regional main drain, and of
Project buildings and staff houses; and
(j) the provision of domestic animals of selected breeds for
sale to settlers.
(2) The Ministry of Irrigation (MOI)
MOI shall be responsible for:
(a) the completion of the ongoing works for securing irriga-
tion water for the Project area, and the preparation of all tender
documents and the execution of all contracts for the procurement
of works or goods required for the implementation of Part A (1),
(2) and (3) of the Project;
(b) the operation of the five pumping stations of the Nasr
Canal and control of water delivery from it according to the needs
of the Project area; and
(c) the maintenance of all irrigation water works up to
the offtake structure on the Nasr Canal, and of the regional main
drain.
(3) The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
MOA shall be responsible, in addition to its assistance to
MLR, for providing agricultural extension and research staff
to the Project Unit.
(4) The Ministry of Health (MOH)
MOH shall be responsible for:


﻿- 20 -
(a) the preparation, not later than December 31, 1981, of
plans satisfactory to the Association for implementing the
bilharzia control program (Part E of the Project) in the different
areas covered by such program, and the carrrying out of such
program, including the procurement of goods under it; and
(b) planning, establishing, staffing, operating and main-
taining the health facilities included in the Project.
(5) The Ministry of Education (MOE)
MOA shall be responsible for:
(a) the preparation of curricula for schools and teacher
training courses under the Project;
(b) the provision of plans for and the supervison of school
construction;
(c) the staffing and operating of the Project schools;
(d) the carrying out of functional literacy programs in the
Project area; and
(e) the maintenance of school buildings and staff houses.
(6) The Rural Electricity Authority (REA)
REA shall participate in the preparation of plans for elec-
trification in the Project area, and shall be responsible for
making the electrical connections, operating and maintaining the
electricity network and charging and collecting electricity fees
from customers.
(7) Alexandria General Water Authority (AGWA)
AGWA shall participate in the preparation of plans for
domestic water supply in the Project area and shall be responsible
for:
(a) making the water connection and operating and maintain-
ing the domestic water supply network; and
(b) charging and collecting water fees from customers
according to its regular rates.


﻿- 21 -
(8) The Principal Bank for Development and Agricultural
Credit (PBDAC)
PBDAC shall prepare plans for its buildings in the Project
area and shall be responsible for:
(a) providing credit to settlers for the purchase of agri-
cultural machinery pursuant to Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(b) staffing and operating its offices in the Project
area for the provision of agricultural credit to settlers; and
(c) maintaining its buildings and staff houses.
B.   At the Regional Level
(1) The Project Unit
(a) Organization: The Project Unit shall be established
at the Project Center and shall be headed by a qualified and
experienced director general. It shall include four sections for
engineering, agriculture, community development and administration
and finance.
(b) Responsibilities: The Project Unit shall be responsible
for the supervision of construction works and for the day-to-day
activities under the Project; in this connection, the Project
Unit shall (A) prepare an annual work program for the Project,
together with the budgetary requirements thereof, for submission
to MLR, and (B) operate and maintain the Project facilities, and
provide all engineering, agricultural, administrative and social
services in the Project area.
(2) The Regional Implementation Committee (RIC)
(a) Organization: RIC will be composed of representatives
from the regional offices or departments of the Implementing
Agencies, which are responsible for the Project area, and shall
include, after the settlement activities, representatives of
farmers in the Project area.
(b) Responsibilities: RIC shall coordinate, at the regional
level, the activities of the Implementing Agencies related to the


﻿- 22 -
carrying out of the Project and to the operation and maintenance
of the facilities established under it.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 24 -
Arab Republic of Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Arab Republic of Egypt if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Arab Republic of
Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 25 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works under the Project, estimated
to cost not more than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract and
$2,000,000 in the aggregate may be awarded under competitive
bidding advertised locally pursuant to the Borrower's applicable
procedures.
2.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost not more
than $50,000 equivalent per contract and $400,000 in the aggregate
may be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from not less
than three reliable suppliers.
3.   Contracts for proprietary equipment estimated to cost
not more than $300,000 in the aggregate may be purchased directly
from reliable suppliers.
D. - Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more for civil works and $100,000 or more for
goods:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association


﻿- 26 -
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies ofi such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198±.
FOR SECRETARY


