Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14827
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH)
JULY 3, 1995
Country Operations Division
Central-Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Cedis per US$1.00)
1988     1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual average              202.3   270.0   326.3  367.8  437.1  630.1
End of year                 224.9   303.0   344.8  390.6  520.8  822.0
ABBREVIATIONS AND PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA  -  Automatic System of Customs Data Entry, Control and Management
ERP         -  Economic Recovery Program
ESAF        -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
Fl          -  Financial Institution
GIC         -  Ghana Investment Center
GLSS        -  Ghana Living Standards Survey
GOG         -  Government of Ghana
HPAEs       -  High performing Asian Economies
IMF         -  International Monetary Fund
IRS         -  Internal Revenue Service
KtW         -  Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MFEP        -  Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MSD         -  Management Services Division
NRS         -  National Revenue Secretariat
OECF        -  Organization of Economic Cooperation Fund
PAB         -  Public Agreements Board
PAMSCAD  -  Program of Actions to Mitigate the Social Costs of Adjustment
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
PEP         -  Public Expenditure Program
PFP         -  Policy Framework Paper
PIB         -  Prices and Incomes Board
PIP         -  Public Investment Program
PSAG        -  Private Sector Advisory Group
SAC         -  Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF         -  Structural Adjustment Facility
SAP         -  Structural Adjustment Program
SDR         -  Special Drawing Rights
SEC         -  State Enterprise Commission
SIDA        -  Swedish International Development Agency
SOEs        -  State-Owned Enterprises
VAT         -  Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                                  July 3, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ghana - Private Investment and Sustained
Development Promotion Credit or Third Structural Adjustment Credit
(Credits 2236. 2236-1. 2236-2-GH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ghana Private Investment and
Sustained Development Promotion Credit (Credits 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH), prepared by the
Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did not prepare a Part II.
This credit, also known as the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III), was approved
in May 1991 in the amount of US$120 million and closed in July 1993. The project's principal
objective was to improve Ghana's enabling environment for private investment. It focussed on
measures (i) to improve incentives for private savings and investment by liberalizing the regulatory
framework and rationalizing indirect taxes; and (ii) to reduce the size and improve the efficiency
of the public sector through divestments, civil service reform, and improved public expenditure and
public enterprise management. Moreover, the maintenance of macroeconomic stability was rightly
regarded as a sine qua non for raising private investment.
The PCR provides a balanced and insightful review of how and why the project came to
have its mixed results. The PCR identifies some weaknesses in project design, e.g., inadequate
specification of divestiture targets and processes, and unrealistic assumptions about the pace at
which key institutional reforms could be achieved. With regard to implementation, good progress
was achieved in improving the regulatory framework and in rationalizing taxes. But there was
disappointingly slow progress in public enterprise and civil service reform and in improving public
expenditure management. More importantly, the SAC's implementation period was marked by the
reappearance of macroeconomic imbalances which still remain to be fully corrected.
Release of the second tranche was delayed by the "coming off track" of the stabilization
program in the latter half of 1992 owing to election-related overruns on government expenditures
and shortfalls in revenues. This slippage in fiscal discipline led to increased inflation, exchange rate
depreciation, increased interest rates, and other effects that led in turn to the decline of private
investment, which fell to a low 4 percent of GDP over the project period, rather than rising as
targeted. The PCR notes that release of the second tranche was arguably still premature as it was
based upon Government undertakings to effect fiscal corrections only partially achieved during the
project period. The main lesson is that maintaining a stable macro framework is critical for ensuring
adequate private sector savings and investment.
Mainly because of the slippage in fiscal discipline and the related fall in private investment,
the project outcome is rated as marginally unsatisfactory. The institutional development impact is
rated as modest. The PCR finds that the project's benefits, mainly in terms of reforms in the
regulatory framework, appear likely to be sustained in the near term. Thus, sustainability is rated
as likely. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH)
PREFACE .................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ......................................  iii
PART 1. WORLD  BANK  REVIEW  OF SAC III  .........................  1
A. Credit Identity             ........................1.............. 
B. Background                          ................. 1
C. The Credit    ..................................                                          2
1. Objectives                  ........................                                  2
2. Design                     ........................                                    3
3. Ownership                    ........................                                  3
D. Implementation    .................................                                        4
1. Promotion of Private Investment and Savings ..... ............      .                 4
a. Macroeconomic Framework  ..........................  4
b. Tax Policies and Administration ........................  5
c. Regulatory Framework   .............................  6
2. State-Owned Enterprise Reform ...............                                          6
a. Performance Contracts ..............................   6
b. Divestiture and Reduction in Size of SOE Sector  ....                  .........  7
3. Public Expenditure and Poverty Alleviation  ..... .............     .                  7
a. Expenditure Allocations .............................  8
b. Poverty Alleviation ................................  8
c. Budget Procedures, Expenditure Control, and Monitoring  ....                 ....  8
4. Civil Service Reform              ........................                             9
a. Civil Service Productivity  ............................  9
b. Personnel and Payroll Management ......................  9
c. Improving Economic Policy Formulation  .................   10
E. Program  Impact and Sustainability   ...................... ...   10
1. Results      ....................                .....................   10
2. Sustainability              .....................................   11
F. Bank Performance   ...................................   12
G. Borrower Performance                   .................................    13
H. Lessons Learned               .....................................    13
TWs octuen.thas a restzcted distuibutdon and may be used by recipients only in the pezforumice of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authonzadon. l



- 2 -
PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(NOT  SUBM           TED)                      ...................................   15
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...........................   16
A. Related ]DA  Credits                 ................                  ..................    16
B. Credit Position  ............                          ..........................    17
C. Credit Timetable   ....................................    17
D. Staff Inputs . ........................................ 18
E. Mission Data .......................................  18
ANNEXES
Annex  1.  Letter of Development Policy  ...............................    19
Annex 2.  Policy Matrix  .........................................    33



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Private Investment and Sustained
Development Promotion Credit, also called the third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III)
of the International Development Association (IDA) to the Republic of Ghana. The Credit
(2236-GH) of SDR 84.6 million (US$120 million equivalent) was approved on May 7, 1991,
signed on June 10, 1991, and became effective on July 19, 1991. It was disbursed in two
tranches. The first supplement (Cr. 2236-1-GH) of SDR 4.7 million (US$6.1 million
equivalent) was approved on November 26, 1991, signed on February 7, 1992, and became
effective on July 22, 1992. The second supplement (Cr. 2236-2-GH) of SDR 4.7 million
(US$6.5 million equivalent) was approved on December 23, 1992, signed on January 26,
1993, and became effective on July 6, 1993. These credits supported the Government of
Ghana's program to promote private investment and sustained development, described in
Annex 1.
2.    The first tranche of US$60 million equivalent was released upon effectiveness.
Release of the second tranche, which had been scheduled some eight months after
effectiveness, was delayed by almost twelve months, until February 1993. The delay was due
initially to delays in implementing some of the reform measures and later to the re-emergence
of large fiscal imbalances. The latter was due partly to by exogenous factors, such as falling
cocoa prices, but more significantly to election-related slippages in expenditure and revenue
targets. The Credit, including supplements of IDA reflows, was fully disbursed by August
1993.
3.    Japan's Organization of Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and Germany's
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) co-financed the Credit with loans of T6.3 billion and
of DM 20 million, respectively, released by February 1993. The Swedish International
Development Association (SIDA) also supported the program with a grant of SKr 10 million
(US$1.6 million equivalent) under the Fifth Dimension to cover debt-servicing by the
Republic of Ghana on IBRD loans.
4.    The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division, Central-Western Africa
Department, Africa Region, (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and m, and the Annexes).
On several occasions, the Borrower was requested to present its own evaluation but none has
been received. Thus, Part II is not included.
5.    Preparation of this PCR is based on the Initiating Memorandum, the President's
Report, the Credit Agreement, relevant Country Economic Memoranda, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, other internal Bank documents, as well
as discussions with Bank and IMF staff and with Government officials.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.    Introduction
1.    Ghana is well endowed with a broad range of natural resources. It has traditionally
depended on production and exports of primary products, especially cocoa and gold.
Agriculture employs 60 percent of the labor force; it accounts for 48 percent of GDP. The
service sector employs 25 percent of the labor force; it accounts for 36 percent of real GDP,
largely in trade and public sector services. The industrial sector accounts for about 16
percent of both GDP and employment; it is relatively diverse and well-developed by Sub-
Saharan African standards. Inappropriate economic policies and deteriorating external terms
of trade led to substantial declines in GDP in the 1970s and early 1980s. Between 1970 and
1983, import volumes fell by a third, real export earnings declined by 52 percent, and
domestic savings and investment declined from 12 percent of GDP to less than 6 percent.
The annual inflation rate exceeded 100 percent.
2.    The Government's gradualist adjustment strategy, adopted in 1983 under the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP), turned the economy around. In the 10 years prior to the
introduction of the ERP, real GDP fell by 2 percent per annum; in the years since its
introduction, real GDP has risen by 5 percent per annum. The ERP enjoyed substantial donor
support, including financial assistance from the IMF and other multilateral and bilateral
donors. The IMF, under various facilities, provided assistance totalling SDR 763.8 million
and the Bank provided nearly US$1 billion in quick disbursing adjustment loans.
3.    By the eve of Board approval of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) in
1991, the ERP had moved Ghana from a grossly overvalued multiple exchange rate system to
a market-determined system; from a quantitatively controlled trade regime to a low tariff
import regime; and from an economy with price controls to one without. The financial sector
had been partially reformed; however, much more remained to be done to enhance financial
intermediation. Reform of the tax regime, investment regulations, public enterprises, public
expenditure management, and the civil service remained to be started.
4.    SAC III was cofinanced by Japan's Organization of Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), Germany's Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), and Sweden's International
Development Agency (SIDA). The IMF supported the program through an ongoing Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) covering the period of November 1988 to March 1992
and subsequently through an Enhanced Surveillance Program.



- iv -
B.    Objectives and Design
5.    The broad objective of SAC III was to support the Government's program to promote
higher levels of private investment and savings in the economy, as a basis for faster growth
and poverty reduction. The Credit's specific objectives were: (i) to maintain a stable
macroeconomic environment that facilitates private investment and savings; to improve
incentives for private investment and savings; to promote a more dynamic supply response to
the program; and to expand economic opportunities for private initiative; (ii) to improve
efficiency and financial performance; to increase accountability; and to reduce the size of the
public sector; (iii) to ensure that public expenditures are consistent with the macroeconomic
framework; to improve allocations for operations and maintenance; to increase efficiency of
public spending and improve the focus on poverty alleviation; and to strengthen budget
procedures, and expenditure control and monitoring; and (iv) to improve effectiveness of
public administration; to enable the Government to attract and retain qualified staff; and to
strengthen personnel and payroll management. The Government's Letter of Development
Policy (attached as Annex 1), and the Policy Matrix (Annex 2) set out the program's objectives
and the concrete measures needed to achieve them.
6.    The Credit suffered from several weaknesses in design. First, its coverage was too
broad, and it lacked depth and specificity in some areas. As a result, although tranche release
conditions were met, substantive progress was not always apparent. Second, the private
investment and savings targets were too ambitious, in terms of both the speed and the size of
the response. Third, the projected implementation period was overly ambitious-only eight
months had been allowed between Credit effectiveness and second tranche release. During this
period, a number of complex institutional measures were to have been taken-on involving
the private sector in formulating an action program, on divestiture, on civil service personnel
and payroll management, and on public expenditure management. Fourth, several
components were imprecisely defined. The targets and processes for the divestiture program
could have been better specified, and the details of the pay and grading reform of the civil
service could have been spelled out. This also would have helped to define "satisfactory
progress" and for purposes of second tranche release, thus making a definitive assessment of
the status of compliance with program undertakings more straightforward.
C.    Implementation
7.    Nor did implementation of the program proceed as planned. To a large extent, this
was simply the flip-side of the optimistic design. But serious delays also occurred as a result
of setbacks in macroeconomic performance during 1992. Because of an 80 percent wage
increase granted to civil servants in late 1992, during the run-up to presidential and
parliamentary elections, there were substantial overruns on government expenditures. There
were also major election-related slippages in budgetary revenue collections and in other
program measures. The second tranche was released in February 1993, almost 12 months
later than projected in the implementation schedule. The decision to release the tranche was
based on agreement with the Bank and the Fund on the macroeconomic framework for 1993;
in the event only one half the fiscal correction was actually implemented. The other half of
the needed correction looks likely to be implemented in 1994.
D.    Results
8.    Significant progress on SAC III's private sector development components was
achieved. Many restrictive regulatory provisions were repealed and most of the restrictive



- v -
clauses in the 1985 Investment Code were amended. The number of industries reserved
exclusively for Ghanaians was reduced (from 20 to 4); minimum foreign capital requirements
were reduced (from US$60,000 to US$10,000 for joint ventures, and to zero for export
trading enterprises); and the investment license requirement was eliminated. The program
also resulted in significant reductions in, and rationalization of, corporate tax and import tax
rates. The top marginal corporate tax rates were reduced from 55 and 50 percent to
35 percent for all sectors, making Ghana one of the lowest corporate tax-rate countries in the
developing world-similar to many East Asian and Caribbean countries. In addition, the non-
uniform special import sales tax of 1040 percent, was reduced to a single uniform rate of 10
percent. The overall import duty structure was reduced to three tiers of 0, 10, and 25
percent-from the previous four tier structure of 0, 10, 20, and 25 percent.
9.     More limited results were achieved on public enterprise reform, civil service reform,
and public expenditure management. On divestiture, 28 State Owned Enterprises (SOEs)
were divested between 1991 and 1993. Sales contracts were signed for another 16 SOEs, but
sales were not consummated. In the absence of physical targets for divestiture under the
Credit, there was no objective basis to relate actual performance to what was expected under
the program. Nor were there process benchmarks for evaluating how the divestitures were
accomplished. The performance contracts signed with 13 priority SOEs had positive effects
on profits; however, their efficiency-increasing effects were muted by continuing Government
controls on pricing and procurement. On civil service reform, there was only limited
progress in revising the pay grading structure. On public expenditure management, there
were some improvements, including the preparation of a rolling three-year public investment
program and increased attention paid to recurrent cost implications of the investment program.
But very significant gaps in overall expenditure management remain.
10.   The program's bottom-line impact on private investment and savings was much
smaller than targeted under the Credit. (See Below.) The projected increase in private
investment and savings did not materialize. On the contrary, both private investment and
savings declined during the program period. In part this was because the targets were too
ambitious. But the larger reason was the macroeconomic instability in 1992 that carried over
into 1993. Indeed, the large election-related fiscal shock (in terms of much higher civil
service pay and benefits) and political uncertainty had a negative effect on private savings and
investment.
Investment & Savings: Actual vs. Target
1990    1991    1992      1993
(Percentages of GDP)
Gross Investment         Actual          14.4    15.9    12.8       13.9
Target                   16.9    17.8      19.0
Private Investment       Actual           7.6      8.1      4.3      4.0
Target                    8.8     9.8      10.6
National Savings         Actual           7.4      9.3      4.2      0.2
Target                    9.1    11.5      13.5
Private Savings          Actual           5.8      6.1      6.4      1.2
Target                    5.5     7.5      13.5



- vi -
E.    Sustainability
11.   SAC III's private sector achievements on taxation and regulatory framework appear
likely to be sustained. They have been locked-in by administrative changes. And since the
Credit closed, the Government has taken a number of important steps that also point towards
sustainability. On regulations, the Government is in the process of approving into law a new,
more liberal Investment Act. On taxation, it has prepared a value added tax (VAT) to be
introduced in 1995. Preparation of this component of the Credit helped to develop substantial
private sector ownership through the establishment of, and discussions in, the Private Sector
Advisory Group (PSAG). The establishment of PSAG has since spawned other groups (with
wider participation) for public sector-private sector interactions, such as the new Private
Sector Roundtable and the Private Enterprise Foundation. The process set in train under SAC
III thus helped to empower the private sector in the policy formulation process. Arguably,
this was SAC III's most important achievement.
12.   For public enterprise reform, civil service reform, and public expenditure
management, ownership remained weak throughout the program period. However, there is
considerable evidence that ownership is now developing, and that the reform process is
beginning to build momentum. On privatization, the Government has passed an omnibus bill
converting statutory corporations into joint-stock companies, thereby facilitating their sale. In
an important step, it has recently sold some of its shares in the largest state-owned company,
Ashanti Goldfields, and in seven minority holding companies traded on the stock exchange.
On civil service restructuring, it has established two steering committees (with high-level
leadership) to examine public service reform and capacity building in Government. On public
expenditure management, it has for the first time completed its own public expenditure review
and is developing a medium-term strategy for improving public expenditure management.
F.    Lessons Learned
13.   The main lessons to be learned from SAC III are:
*     Maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework is critical for ensuring
adequate private sector savings and investment. This requires appropriate
fiscal and monetary policies. Looking to the future, the Ghanaian
Government should focus on establishing the structural foundations for
sustained macroeconomic balance. Without this, the desired private sector
response may not be forthcoming, and faster growth will not be achieved.
*     Broad-based stakeholder participation and ownership speeds implementation.
Good program design requires intensive preparatory work and significant
inputs from those who will be called on to implement program measures.
Without it, the risks of slippages in a time-bound program are larger than they
need be. Substantial up-front actions at the onset of the program are an
effective test of stakeholder ownership and participation.
*     Realistic projections prevent unnecessary disappointments. In designing an
adjustment credit, care should be taken to be realistic about the projected
speed of the economic response to the reform program; otherwise, the credit
may raise expectations that cannot be met. Confidence in reform may be
undermined.



- vii -
*      Clearly defined tranche release conditions facilitate implementation and
supervision. They establish a more objective basis for assessing whether
actual performance is in line with program undertakings.
*      Follow-up enhances sustainability. Divestiture, public expenditure
management, and restructuring of the civil service are critical areas where
dialogue and reform must continue if Ghana is to achieve faster growth.






PROJECT COMPLEIMON REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2.-GED
PART 1: WORID BANK REVIEW OF SAC IH
A.    Credit Identity
Credit Name:         Private Investment and Sustained Development Promotion
Credit (SAC III)
Credit Numbers:      2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH
RVP Unit:            Africa Region (AF4CO)
Country:             Ghana
Sector:              Macroeconomic
B.    Background
1.    In 1983, following a decade of decline, Ghana introduced sweeping reforms under the
Economic Recovery Program (ERP). Enhanced revenue collections, complemented by
substantial external aid, enabled the Government simultaneously to rebuild the country's social
and physical infrastructure and to restore fiscal balance. The improved fiscal balance in turn
facilitated monetary restraint. Inflation was brought down from 123 percent in 1983 to 40
percent in 1990. The official exchange rate was devalued substantially, and a foreign
exchange auction was introduced. The extensive price control system was progressively
dismantled, and interest rates were liberalized. Quantitative import restrictions were phased
out. The ERP was supported by substantial IDA financial assistance, as well as financial
assistance from the IMF and other multilateral and bilateral donors. The IMF, under various
facilities, provided assistance totalling SDR 763.8 million, and the Bank provided nearly
US$1 billion in quick disbursing adjustment credits.
2.     SAC III was intended to support Government efforts to deepen the adjustment
process. It complemented ongoing sector adjustment loans in agriculture and finance and
supported the Government's stabilization program described in Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) 1991-93.' It was also a logical follow-up to two previous adjustment operations (SAC
I and II), and earlier Economic Recovery Program Credits. Stabilization of the economy was
a major goal throughout the reform period, but the program's focus on structural measures
had increased over time. From 1983 to 1986, the policy focus had been on macroeconomic
stability and trade and exchange rate reforms. Between 1986 and 1991, the focus broadened
Joint Government of Ghana, Bank, and IMF. Ghana: Policy Framework Paper January 1992-December
1994.



- 2 -
to include structural reforms-starting with industry and education in 1986, and followed by
financial sector reform in 1988 and agricultural reform in 1991.
3.     When SAC III was being designed in 1990, Ghana's savings and investment rates
were 7 and 14 percent respectively. Though substantially higher than at the start of the ERP,
they were still low-even by Sub-Saharan African standards. It was thus recognized that if
Ghana was to grow faster, it would need to save and to invest more. Since public investment
was expected to grow more slowly than in the past, growth in private investment would need
to lead overall investment. This would require restraint on the fiscal deficit to ensure that the
resources would be available for the private investment, coupled with measures to ensure the
efficiency of public expenditures and public enterprises. Given the private sector's apparent
uncertainty about Government intentions, the Government also needed to move toward greater
openness, less intervention in private economic decisions, a more transparent legal and
regulatory system, and better dissemination of information on the economy and on policies
and greater assurances about the Government's commitment to private-sector-led growth.
Given the very strong presence of the Government in the enterprise sector,2 public enterprise
reform and privatization were also seen to be key areas.
C.     The Credit
1.     Objectives
4.     SAC III's broad objectives were to support the Government's program to promote
higher levels of private investment and savings in the economy, as a basis for faster growth
and poverty reduction. Its specific objectives were: (i) to maintain a stable macroeconomic
environment that facilitates private investment and savings; to improve incentives for private
investment and savings; to promote a more dynamic supply response to the program; and to
expand economic opportunities for private initiative; (ii) to improve efficiency and financial
performance of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs); to increase accountability; and to reduce the
size of the public sector; (iii) to ensure that public expenditures are consistent with the
macroeconomic framework; to improve allocations for operations and maintenance; to
increase efficiency of public spending and improve the focus on poverty alleviation; and to
strengthen budget procedures, and expenditure control and monitoring; and (iv) to improve
effectiveness of public administration; to enable the Government to attract and retain qualified
staff; and to strengthen personnel and payroll management. The Government's Letter of
Development Policy (attached as Annex 1), and the Policy Matrix (Annex 2) set out the
program's objectives and the concrete measures needed to achieve them.
5.     SAC III was co-financed by Japan's Organization of Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), Germany's Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW), and Sweden's International
Development Agency (SIDA). The IMF supported the program through an ongoing Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) covering the period of November 1988 to March 1992
and subsequently through an Enhanced Surveillance Program. SAC III plus related co-
2   Private manufacturing accounted for only a small share of the total, consisting of mostly very small
enterprises. According to the 1987 industrial census, some 92 percent of 8,351 recorded Ghanaian
private enterprises had fewer than 30 workers; medium- and large-scale enterprises constituted only 8
percent of the total; and only 52 firms (some 0.6 percent of the total), employed more than 500 workers.
The public sector dominated manufacturing in 1990, even after seven years of reform. The Govemment
still had majority ownership in more than 230 small and medium State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) and 17
large and strategic SOEs, which accounted for 60 percent of employment and 66 percent of value added
in the sector.



- 3 -
financing helped fill the balance of payments gap for the 1991-93 period. This was a central
topic of discussion at the Consultative Group Meetings in 1991 and 1993.
2.    Design
6.    To achieve these objectives the Government's program focussed on maintaining
macroeconomic stability as a sine quo non of a sustained supply response, and on:
*     reducing and rationalizing direct and indirect tax rates and liberalizing the
regulatory framework for private investment;
*     rationalizing the SOE sector through divestment and through increased
efficiency of core enterprises;
*     reforming the civil service; and
*     improving the management and poverty orientation of public expenditures.
7.    The thinking behind the Credit's design was as follows. Maintenance of
macroeconomic stability would build private sector confidence in the incentive framework,
while reductions in corporate tax rates, liberalization of the regulatory framework,
privatization, and continuing commitment to a market-determined exchange rate and a liberal
trade regime, were expected to signal Government's strong commitment to a hospitable
environment for private investment. Emphasis on public expenditures for poverty alleviation
(through increased spending on primary health and education and better provision of public
goods and services) would strengthen the country's human capital and better allocation to
infrastructure and operations and maintenance would help crowd-in private sector growth.
Finally, cutbacks in the size of the civil service and reforms in its pay and grading were
expected to increase its effectiveness and reduce the budgetary cost of the civil service.
8.    The Credit had two tranches. The first was made available on effectiveness. The
second was be made available after a satisfactory review of progress that depended on eight
specific conditions as well as implementation of the overall program. The program was back-
loaded. Most of the measures were to be implemented after approval of the Credit. Indeed,
even agreement on many of the specific measures was to follow approval of the Credit. A
few changes in tax rates were implemented up front.
3.    Ownership
9.    The content and design of the program was developed through policy dialogue
between the Bank and a few Government ministries, including the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning. The Ghanaian private sector also participated in formulating parts of the
program. Credit design was based on diagnostic work carried out collaboratively with the
Government and Bank staff to ascertain the impediments to private investment. The dialogue
between the Government and private sector through the establishment of the Private Sector
Advisory Group (PSAG) was instrumental in developing specific measures to remedy the
identified problems. A joint IDA/Government report entitled "Towards a Dynamic
Investment Response", prepared in 1990, had identified the key areas where reform was
required to promote private investment. The PSAG, consisting of representatives from
Ghana's private sector, was then asked to develop a consensual set of recommendations in
respect of the regulatory framework and the tax regime. Though the latter's recommendations
took longer than expected-they were made nearly a year after approval of the Credit-the
consensus and ownership that developed as a result of PSAG's discussions no doubt
contributed to their implementation and sustainability.



-4 -
10.   Ownership of the various components was uneven. While reforms of the tax regime
and the regulatory framework had stronger Ghanaian ownership and greater depth, the same
was not true for areas involving SOE reform, civil service reform, and public expenditure
management. The greater attention to involving private sector stakeholders no doubt
contributed to the greater ownership of the private sector components. This involvement and
ownership was lacking for the other components. Indeed, the very broad scope and lack of
specificity for those components provided early clues about their limited ownership. Had
stakeholders been involved, the targets and processes for the divestiture program would most
likely have been specified and the details of pay and grading reform of the civil service
spelled out. This would have helped to define more clearly what is meant by "satisfactory
progress" and "progress in implementation" in reform areas that constituted second tranche
conditions, thereby making a definitive objective assessment of "satisfactory progress" easier.
D.    Implementation
11.   The second tranche was released almost al year later than scheduled. The slow pace
of implementation of legal and regulatory reforms, of divestiture, and of civil service reform
was accompanied by increased macroeconomic instability, especially in terms of a higher
fiscal deficit. The latter was mostly election-related, reflecting an 80 percent increase in
salaries for civil servants, but it also reflected slippages in revenue collections, from a fall in
international prices for Ghana's major exports-cocoa, gold, and timber.
12.   Major structural reforms were implemented during the program that were aimed at
promoting private sector growth. These reforms can be divided into four categories:
promotion of private savings and investment, state-owned enterprise reform, public
expenditure management, and civil service reform.
1.    Promotion of Private Investment and Savings
13.   Maintenance of macroeconomic stability amd exchange rate reform, rationalization of
taxes, and liberalization of the regulatory framework were to help promote private investment
and savings.
a.     Macroeconomic Framework
14.   Following steady improvements in macroeconomic management from 1986 to 1991,
there was a sharp reversal in 1992. None of the Government's macroeconomic targets were
met. Performance in the real economy was also worse than projected. Real GDP growth has
been targeted at 5 percent; only 3.9 percent was achieved. Poor performance in agriculture,
where cocoa production fell, and in the manufacturing sector were major contributors.
15.   But the major problem was fiscal policy. During the run-up to the elections, civil
servants demanded and obtained a 80 percent wage increase in October 1992, which was
made retroactive to July 1992. The Government also agreed to pay out to all employees of
SOEs and subvented organizations, end-of-service benefits that had accrued up to (and had
been frozen) in 1990 when a pension scheme was adopted. Workers began receiving cash
payouts from accumulated funds, starting with 20 percent for workers at SOEs and 25 percent
for subvented organizations in 1992. These payments alone amounted to some (120 billion, or
6.5 percent of GDP in 1992. The balance was to be given in three equal installments at an
interest rate of 16 percent, to be paid semi-annually. On the revenue side, there were serious



collection shortfalls in both direct and indirect taxes; part of the cocoa tax shortfall was due to
the decline in world cocoa prices.
16.   The fiscal slippages overwhelmed monetary policy. Broad money grew by 52 percent
in 1992, with most of the growth coming in the last quarter of the year. While inflation for
1992 averaged 10.1 percent (as against 18 percent in 1991), there was excessive liquidity in
the monetary system. As a result, the average inflation rate for 1993 was 24.4 percent.
17.    Management of the exchange rate system was broadly satisfactory during the program
period. The Government's program to ensure and maintain market-determined exchange rates
was successful. The foreign exchange markets, unified in April 1990 with the introduction of
a weekly wholesale auction of foreign exchange, were strengthened in 1991 by a change
permitting all export proceeds, except for cocoa and gold, to be sold to banks and bureaus.
This gave commercial banks a larger share of export proceeds. In March 1992, the Bank of
Ghana terminated its weekly wholesale auction of foreign exchange and replaced it with an
interbank market.
18.   During 1991, the cedi's nominal value depreciated by 12 percent against the U.S.
dollar, but the real effective exchange rate remained broadly stable. Throughout 1992, the
cedi's external value declined (particularly during the final quarter) as financial policies
became increasingly expansionary. Consequently, on an end-period basis, the real effective
exchange rate depreciated by 15 percent in 1992. There was further depreciation in 1993.
Although the Central Bank tried to exert moral suasion to keep the exchange rate steady, it
gave up this effort after July 1993, when the exchange rate depreciated substantially in
response to the expansionary monetary policies of 1992 and 1993.
b.    Tax Policies and Administration
19.   The rationalization of the tax regime was a major achievement of SAC III. The 1992
and 1993 budget helped merge personal and corporate income tax rates, harmonize rates
across sub-sectors, eliminate the super sales tax, and make the non-uniform special import
sales tax rate unifonn at 10 percent.
20.   The top marginal tax rate on personal income was reduced from 55 percent at the end
of 1990 to 40 percent in 1992, reducing the difference between the top marginal tax rates on
personal and corporate income. By lowering corporate tax rates on financial institutions, and
printing or publishing businesses, differences in corporate tax rates among different businesses
were also reduced. The top marginal rate on financial institutions was reduced from 50 to 45
percent in 1991 and to 35 percent in 1993. For printing, publishing, and commerce, the top
rate was reduced from 50 percent to the standard 35 percent in 1992. Progress was also
made in negotiating agreements with principal trading partners to avoid double taxation. The
period for carryover of losses was extended, and the withholding tax on dividends was
reduced from 15 to 10 percent.
21.    There was also a rationalization of the indirect tax regime. The "super" sales tax on
imports was eliminated, and the special sales tax on imports was made uniform at 10 percent
in 1992. The four-tier import duty structure was reduced to three-tier with duty rates of 0,
10, and 25 percent. The standard rate of sales tax was reduced from 22.5 percent to 17.5
percent with a drop in the concessional rate from 10 percent to 7.5 percent in 1991 and the
standard rate was lowered to 15 percent in the 1993 budget.



- 6 -
c.    Regulatory Framework
22.   The Government repealed several acts and decrees and amended a few others.
Although liberalization had to await the recommendations of the PSAG, which was available
in April 1992, the reforms were quite substantial. By early 1993 the regulatory framework
became as liberal as the Credit and the diagnostic report had initially envisaged. Private
investors are expected to benefit significantly from these changes.
23.   In the event, the Government repealed the Manufacturing Industries Act (1971), the
Price Control Decree (1974) and the Control of Sale of Specific Goods Decree, (1976). The
Government also amended or removed restrictive aspects of a number of other Acts and
Decrees, including the Industrial Relations Act (1956 and 1965), and Labor Decree (1967), so
that firms with paid-up capital of US$10,000 to US$100,000 would be allowed to hire up to
two expatriates automatically, and firms with US$100,000 and above, could hire four.
24.   Several amendments were made to the 1985 Investment Code and Regulations.
Industries reserved exclusively for Ghanaians were reduced from 20 to 4 and the minimum
foreign capital requirement was lowered from US$60,000 to US$10,000 for joint ventures and
to zero for export-trading enterprises. Payment of royalties and fees to foreign firms and
requirements for investment licenses were liberalized from the end of 1992. The Government
has now drafted a new, more liberal Investment Act, which incorporates these amendments
and intends to make the Ghana Investment Centre a promotional rather than a regulatory
body.
2.    State-Owned Enterprise Reform
25.   The overall objective of the SOE reform was to improve efficiency and financial
performance by increasing accountability and to reduce the size of the sector. Though there
was progress under the program, much more needs to be done in this area.
a.    Performance Contracts
26.   The State Enterprise Commission (SEC) monitors the performance of state owned
enterprises. Accordingly, thirteen performance agreements were executed during the life of
this Credit between the Government and "core" enterprises. These agreements were expected
to improve SOE efficiency, by identifying specific responsibilities of both parties and by
establishing performance targets.
27.    The following thirteen core enterprises reached agreement with the Government on
updated corporate plans: Volta River Authority, The Electricity Corporation of Ghana,
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, Posts and Telecommunication Corporation, Ghana
Airways, Ghana Railway, The State Shipping Corporation, The Ghana Cocoa Board, The
Ghana Italian Petroleum Corporation, The Ghana National Petroleum Corporation, The Ghana
Supply Commission, Ghana National Procurement Agency, and Ghana Oil Company Limited.
Though some utilities were nominally given tariff-setting authority under their performance
agreements, they were not allowed to raise their tariffs.
28.   These companies' after-tax profits rose considerably over this period. But there
appears to have been little sustained impact of the performance contracts on efficiency. In part
this was because pricing and procurement decisions did not actually shift to the SOEs. There



has been some increase in tax payments by SOEs. Nor did the envisaged separation of
commercial and non-commercial operations materialize.
b.    Divestiture and Reduction in Size of SOE Sector
29.   Ghana's divestiture program, aimed at reducing the size of the public sector, has
progressed slowly, in part because of the time needed for initial preparation but mainly
because of nontransparent procedures used for implementing divestiture. Of the more than
263 or so majority-owned public enterprises in 1988, only 64 had been divested by end-
1993-that is either liquidated or sold to the private sector with more than 50 percent of the
proceeds collected. Of this, only 28 were divested between 1991 and 1993, the programn
period for the Credit. Though sales contracts were drawn up for another 16 enterprises
during that period, little or no payments were made by the prospective buyers. These
numbers do not include the recent sale of government shares in the Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation, the largest mining company in Ghana, and in seven minority-owned companies
listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange.
30.   In the absence of specific targets under the SAC III program, it is difficult in
retrospect to judge whether the divestiture of 28 SOEs during the program period was
satisfactory, but in any event, the pace of divestiture was clearly slow. The lack of a codified
set of procedures for divestiture and the use of non-transparent processes by the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC) for implementing divestiture raises questions about the
design of the divestiture under the Credit.
31.   DIC practices for obtaining bids and selecting the winner were not transparent. There
were no standardized contracts, or bid documents, and selection criteria for tenders. Tender
documents did not specify non-price terms up front. Thus price bids could not be compared
because they came with different non-price terms. Post-bid negotiations were carried out with
most or all bidders simultaneously, on both price and non-price terms, instead of being
pursued first with the highest bidder. Thus selection of winners has been a slow and non-
transparent process contrary to international norms, even when there were a sufficient number
of bids. Reservation prices were based on replacement value instead of market value of SOE
or liquidation value of its assets, making for fewer bids.
32.   This ad-hoc and non-transparent process must have reduced investor interest because
of both high transaction costs and a highly uncertain outcome. Bidders were too few and
where there were many, most of them were not serious investors, as is evident from the large
number of sales contracts for SOEs that were not consummated during the program period
and after. Bid prices were not optimal so as to leave room for further negotiation. And
many bids were placed without the backing of financial support, which was possible because
of the absence of a bid-bond requirement.
3.    Public Expenditure and Poverty Alleviation
33.   The primary objectives of the public expenditure component of SAC m were to
ensure that public expenditures were consistent with the macroeconomic framework; to
improve allocations for operations and maintenance; to focus more on alleviating poverty; and
to strengthen budget procedures, and expenditure control. While election pressures thwarted
efforts toward the first objective, some progress was made on the others.



- 8 -
a.    Expenditure Allocations
34.   Ghana and IDA were to agree on the 1992 allocatiore for recurrent expenditures and
on the 1992-94 Public Investment Program (PIP) as one of the conditions for tranche release.
Although election-year expenditure pressures caused slippages, which shifted the balance of
expenditures toward remunerations, the Government has subsequently made considerable
efforts to re-establish the pattern of expenditures that prevailed prior to 1992. Furthermore,
in keeping with the progress made in internalizing the public expenditure review process that
has taken place over the years, the Government has taken the lead in carrying out the 1994
Public Expenditure Review. Increasing attention has been paid to recurrent cost implications
of the PIP through improved information and budgetary processes. The PIP continued to
emphasize improvements in economic and social infrastructure. Improved fiscal information
and better integrated oversight of development and recurrent budgets were expected to help
meet the recurrent costs of the investment program. These important areas of progress
notwithstanding, the question of actual spending and its intersectoral allocation were not
addressed by the Credit, or by its implementation.
b.    Poverty Alleviation
35.   The 1992 development budget included regional information on expenditures, which
helped adjust social sector expenditure allocations to reflect regional priorities for poverty
alleviation. The Government made commitments to ensure that the development budget
would focus on services of most benefit to the poor. It incorporated poverty concerns in the
budget by analyzing the distribution of actual expenditures in 1991 and by assessing actual
experience in the use of poverty guidelines-including proposals for possible adverse
modifications and extensions. In the 1993 budget-to counteract possible income
distributional effects of the higher petroleum prices in the budget-C10 billion was set aside
for an expanded program of social infrastructure rehabilitation and development in rural areas
and in densely populated urban areas aimed at improving sanitation, water supply, and
education and health facilities for the poor. Weaknesses in expenditure reporting procedures
however, make it difficult to assess whether the shift in expenditures toward poorer regions
and toward these programs actually took place. Nevertheless, the regional exercise generated
considerable interest. Because of this work, poverty-related information is now contributing
to discussions during Ghana's budget preparation.
c.    Budget Procedures, Expenditure Control, and Monitoring
36.   As one of the conditions for tranche release, the Government revised the contract
approval process. Biannual expenditure reports were prepared, but their data remained
provisional. To further strengthen the expenditure monitoring system, the Government is
preparing the introduction of a comprehensive commitments-based expenditure monitoring
system.
37.   Also, starting with the 1992 budget, there has been very substantial progress towards
presenting the budget in a "broad-based" format and including regional information in the
development budget. These innovations represent a significant enhancement in budgetary
presentation. They make the budget more meaningful as a gauge of public spending financed
by taxation and borrowings. The broad-based budget expenditure concept includes not only
3  With the carryover of the tranche release to 1993, the review also considered the 1993 budget and
expenditure allocations.



-9-
narrow budget expenditures, which are the sum of recurrent budget, and the domestically
financed portions of the development budget and net lending, but also externally financed
expenditures. Though progress was made in presenting a government budget that includes
donor-financed development expenditures, there is still a long way to go before donor-
financed projects become an integral part of the budget process.
4.     Civil Service Reform
38.   Key objectives of the Credit were to improve the effectiveness of public
administration, to enable the Government to attract and retain qualified staff, and to
strengthen personnel and payroll management. Notwithstanding the substantial increase in
civil service salaries in 1992 and several interventions designed to improve public sector
effectiveness, public servants spent most of their time and effort learning how to work within
new, representative institutions.
a.     Civil Service Productivity
39.   The program aimed to improve civil service efficiency over the medium term. Steps
to reduce overstaffing and to improve the pay and grading framework were taken as planned
in 1991 and 1992, and closer links were established between the management services and
budget divisions of the Government. Gross redeployment numbers for the civil service were
on target during 1991 and 1992.
40.   After the 1991 salary adjustment, a simpler grading structure was expected to be
introduced in 1992 supported by SAC III. This grade structure was to improve equity by
removing anomalies in the existing system, relate pay to skills, establish a cadre of managers
with its own pay and career provisions, reduce the number of occupational groupings to
simplify management and improve mobility, and provide a better foundation for career
development generally. The number and overlap of grades was to be reduced, and relativities
between grades improved, with higher skill categories being granted larger percentage
increases than lower skilled workers.
41.   As noted, during 1992, the Government granted an 80 percent salary increase to civil
servants, which was intended to reduce the still-substantial disparities between the civil service
and the rest of the public sector; the increase was made retroactive to July 1, 1992. Along
with the general salary increase, the Government also pushed forward with its program of pay
reform. First, it introduced a revised grading system in the Traditional civil Service designed
to simplify personnel management by reducing the number of grades and decreasing the
currently extensive overlap between them. Second, through the pay increase, the relativities
across grades were improved; higher skill categories were granted larger percentage increases
than lower-skilled workers. However, it was clearly not a cost-effective way to improve pay
relativities; only 10 percentage points of the 80 percent increase can be attributed to pay and
grading revisions.
b.    Personnel and Payroll Management
42.   Government efforts to strengthen personnel and payroll management were sustained.
Over the years the Management Services Division (MSD) of the Office of the Head of the
Civil Service has played a key role in bringing about improved efficiency. It has instituted
ongoing job inspections and management reviews and has tried to streamline organizations and
reduce duplication of functions. It has also played an important role in annual manpower



- 10 -
budgeting carried out by the Finance Ministry. As a condition of tranche release, an
integrated personnel and payroll management information system was developed.
43.   Work on the computerized personnel and payroll management system has progressed
well. Personnel and payroll data for all civil servants and education service employees are
now being computerized centrally, and the system is expected to become operational after a
period of testing-18 months behind the original schedule-by September 1994.
c.    Improving Economic Policy Formulation
44.   The role of the Policy Analysis Division in the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP) is to help improve the implementation of economic policy reform and to
ensure better coordination with related sector programs. A study was undertaken by the
Government on how to strengthen its organization, operation, and staffing.
E.    Program Impact and Sustainability
1.    Results
45.   The results of the program supported by the Credit were mixed. Reforms in all areas
were implemented broadly as programmed. But in some areas the impact was small because
the program's measures did not address the central problem. In other areas, the impact of the
program's measures was undermined by the election-related fiscal shock in 1992.
46.   Private investment and savings, instead of rising as projected under the program, was
substantially lower in 1992 and 1993 than in the previous two years. Table 1 shows that
private investment fell from 8 percent of GDP in 1991 to around 4 percent in the subsequent
two years. This was largely because the election-related fiscal shock and political uncertainty
had a negative effect on private investment behavior. Private savings (as a share of GDP) fell
sharply in 1993.
Table 1. Investment & Savings: Actual vs. Target
1990    1991    1992      1993
(Percentages of GDP)
Gross Investment         Actual          14.4    15.9    12.8       13.9
Target                   16.9    17.8      19.0
Private Investment       Actual           7.6      8.1      4.3      4.0
Target                    8.8     9.8      10.6
National Savings         Actual           7.4      9.3      4.2      0.2
Target                    9.1    11.5      13.5
Private Savings          Actual           5.8      6.1      6.4      1.2
Target                    5.5     7.5      13.5
47.   Private Sector Development.  As noted, the regulatory framework was substantially
liberalized and tax rates were significantly reduced and rationalized. Success in these areas
was due in large measure to the consensus-building carried out under the PSAG. By the time



- 11 -
SAC III closed, segments of the private sector still had doubts about Government intentions
for private sector development; but the private sector/public sector dialogue had clearly
begun.
48.   SOE Reform. Though 28 SOEs were divested between 1991 and 1993 and
transferred to buyers, no codified set of guidelines on Divestiture Procedures was called for
or developed under the program. Performance contracts were signed between Government and
13 SOEs to improve their efficiency, but pricing and procurement decisions continued to be
made by the Government Ministries rather than SOEs. Efficiency improvements in those
SOEs thus remain limited.
49.   Public Expenditure Management. The program succeeded in ensuring that
budgetary allocations were in line with Government objectives to increase recurrent
expenditures for operations and maintenance as well as development and recurrent
expenditures for education and health. The program, however, was unable to ensure that
actual expenditures were in line with those allocations. This was largely because of basic
weaknesses in Ghana's budget execution, accounting, and monitoring systems, which were not
a focus of the program. These issues are now being addressed. The recently completed
Government-led Public Expenditure Review has provided a candid analysis of the problems
that need to be addressed; the Government is now preparing strategy and action plan to
address them.
50.   Civil Service Reform. The planned civil service reform measures were mostly
implemented. But by themselves they were not sufficient to raise the productivity of the
service and thus to achieve the program's objectives. A new information system on the
payroll and a limited new pay and grading system were adopted; there was also limited
redeployment. But no significant restructuring or downsizing of the civil service was planned
under the program; nor was it achieved. Nor were the objectives of improving productivity
of the service and of recruiting better trained professionals met. Recruiting and retaining
better trained professionals and managers with higher pay have not been feasible fiscally,
given the large size of the service and the election-related pay increase that was granted to all
civil servants. Nor could significant downsizing and restructuring of the civil
service-necessary for raising productivity-have taken place without taking much more time
to develop Ghanaian consensus on the appropriate role, scope, and size of the civil service.
This process is now beginning to get underway.
2.    Sustainability
51.   While the results of the program were mixed, the direction of the reforms initiated
under the Credit has been maintained. Indeed, the Credit has set in train a number of
processes that appear likely to improve over time. Many of the implemented reforms
involved institutional changes that will be difficult to reverse. Liberalization of the regulatory
framework and rationalization of the tax code involved legislative changes and their reversal
would require considerable prior political debate. Similarly, actual transfer of SOEs to
private buyers cannot be reversed without confiscations. Government also is considering
further actions in key areas. In addition, the establishment of the PSAG has given the private
a reserved seat at the policy table; this will be difficult to reverse.
52.   SAC III's private sector achievements on taxation and regulatory framework appear
likely to be sustained. They have been locked-in by administrative changes. And since the
Credit closed, the Government has taken a number of further steps that also point towards



- 12 -
sustainability. On regulations, the Government is in the process of approving into law a new,
more liberal Investment Act. On taxation, it has prepared a value added tax (VAT) to be
introduced in 1995. It is noteworthy that preparation of the Credit helped to develop
substantial private sector ownership through the establishment of, and discussions in, the
Private Sector Advisory Group (PSAG). The establishment of PSAG has since spawned other
groups (with wider participation) for public sector-private sector interactions, such as the new
Private Sector Roundtable and the Private Enterprise Foundation. The process set in train
under SAC III thus helped to empower the private sector in the policy formulation process.
Arguably, this was SAC III's most important achievement.
53.   For public enterprise reform, civil service reform, and public expenditure
management, ownership remained weak throughout the program period. However, there is
considerable evidence that ownership is now developing, and that the reform process is
beginning to build momentum. On privatization, the Government has passed an omnibus bill
converting statutory corporations into joint-stock companies, thereby facilitating their sale. In
an important step, it has recently sold some of its shares in the largest state-owned company,
Ashanti Goldfields, and in seven minority holding companies traded on the stock exchange.
On civil service restructuring, it has established two steering committees (with high-level
leadership) to examine public service reform and capacity building in Government. On public
expenditure management, it has for the first time completed its own public expenditure review
and is developing a medium-term strategy for improving public expenditure management.
F.    Bank Performance
54.   The Bank played a key role in the design of the SAC. But in retrospect, the design of
the program had. some weaknesses. First, it covered too many reform areas, and lacked depth
and ownership in some areas. Second, several components could have been better specified.
The targets and processes for the divestiture program could have been specified, and the
details of pay and grading reform of the Civil Service could have been spelled out. This
would have helped to define "satisfactory progress" and "progress in implementation" in the
various reform areas that constituted second tranche conditions, thus making a definitive
assessment of "satisfactory progress" easier for purposes of tranche release. Third, the
performance targets for private investment were too ambitious in terms of both the speed and
the size of the investment response by the private sector.
55.   The projected implementation period was overly ambitious-some eight months had
been allowed between Credit effectiveness and second tranche release. During this period, a
number of difficult institutional measures were to have been taken. It took more time than
planned to establish the PSAG, to implement the divestiture plan, to institute changes in civil
service personnel and payroll management, and to improve expenditure management.
56.   There was excessive turnover of task managers for the Credit. There were three
during the two years between appraisal and second tranche release. Notwithstanding the
discontinuities in task management, economic expertise at the Resident Mission in Accra
throughout the period averted any lapse in supervision of the program's structural reforms.
But the lack of continuity no doubt contributed to the Bank's limited monitoring of the fast-
changing macroeconomic situation in 1992. Still, it is unlikely that closer monitoring by the
Bank could have prevented the large wage-award, which was dictated by internal political
dynamics within Ghana.



- 13 -
57.    Arguably, the second tranche should have been held up until at least the first half of
1993 so that the macroeconomic outturn could be compared with the 1993 budget. However,
it was judged that the tranche should be released against Government undertakings, given the
strength of Ghana's past track record. Also, reserves were low, the terms of trade were
deteriorating, and further delay, given the associated delay it would mean for donor co-
financing, risked destabilizing the macro-economic situation. Also, the newly elected
Government had adopted a very tough budget and had agreed on the macroeconomic program
for 1993 with Fund and Bank staff. In the event, however, only half the programmed fiscal
correction in 1993 was actually achieved, as the newly installed Parliament strongly advised
against the implementation of the large second-round petroleum price rise that underpinned
the budget estimates. The remaining half of the fiscal correction looks likely to be achieved
in 1994.
58.    Sixty-four staff weeks in FY92 and FY93 were recorded for SAC III supervision in
the Bank's Time Reporting System. These figures do not include time spent on the Public
Expenditure Review, the Economic Management Support Project, and the Policy Framework
Paper, all of which contributed to the SAC III dialogue with the Government.
G.    Borrower Performance
59.    Borrower performance, in terms of implementation of the reform package was
satisfactory in 1991 but not in 1992, especially on the macroeconomic front. It was effective
in respect of the liberalization of the regulatory framework and the reduction of corporate tax
rates. However, it was slower than expected in the reform of the civil service, public
enterprises, and public expenditure management. The Government's inability to move
expeditiously and more directly in these areas suggests some ambivalence in parts of the
Government about the pace of these reforms. This was probably a reflection of the timing of
the measures, which coincided with the preparations for the elections. However, from the
vantage point of increasing private savings and investment, the larger difficulty was the major
slippage on the stabilization front; this was also election-related.
H.    Lessons Learned
60.    The main lessons to be learned from SAC III are:
*     Maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework is critical for ensuring
adequate private sector savings and investment. This requires appropriate
fiscal and monetary policies. Looking to the future, the Ghanaian
Government should focus on establishing the structural foundations for
sustained macroeconomic balance. Without this, the desired private sector
response may not be forthcoming, and faster growth will not be achieved.
*     Broad-based stakeholder participation and ownership speeds implementation.
Good program design requires intensive preparatory work and significant
inputs from those who will be called on to implement program measures.
Without it, the risks of slippages in a time-bound program are larger than they
need be. Substantial up-front actions at the onset of the program are an
effective test of stakeholder ownership and participation.
*     Realistic projections prevent unnecessary disappointments. In designing an
adjustment credit, care should be taken to be realistic about the projected



- 14 -
speed of the economic response to the reform program; otherwise, the credit
may raise expectations that cannot be met. Confidence in reform may be
undermined, with negative "externalities" for other operations and
programmes.
*      Clearly defined tranche release conditions facilitate implementation and
supervision. They establish a more objective basis for assessing whether
actual performance is in line with program undertakings.
*      Follow-up enhances sustainability. Divestiture, public expenditure
management, and restructuring of the civil service are critical areas where
dialogue and reform must continue if Ghana is to achieve faster growth.



- 15 -
PART Il: PROGRAM REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank has requested the Ghanaian authorities to submit their own evaluation of
SAC III, but this document has not been received.



- 16 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related IDA Credits
Year of
Loan title                                Purpose                            approval  Status
Reconstruction Import (RIC 1)             Emergency imports for the             1983    CompLeted
(Cr. 1393-GH)                             agricultural and transport
$40.0 M                                   sectors.
Export RehabiLitation                     Partial emergency assistance          1984    Completed
(Cr. 1435-GH)                             to road transport and port
$40.0 M                                   subsectors.
Export Rehabilitation                     Strengthening institutional           1984    Completed
(Cr. F009-GH)                             capacities of key organiza-
$35.9 M                                   tions in export sector.
Export Rehabilitation T.A.                Strengthening institutional           1984    Completed
(Cr. 1436-GH)                             capacities of key organiza-
$17.1 M                                   tions in export sector.
Second Reconstruction Imports Credit  Import requirements for                   1985    Completed
(RIC 11)                                  agriculture, transport, mining
(Crs. 1573-GH & A003-GH)                  and manufacturing sectors.
$60.0 M
Industrial Sector Adjustment              To complement various reforms         1986    Completed
(Crs. 1672-GH & A013-GH)                  in the incentives framework.
$53.5 M
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I)  Trade liberalization, cocoa               1987    CompLeted
Crs. 1777, A025-0, A025-1)                sector, public expenditure,
$125.8 M                                  reform of SOEs, public sector
management.
Education Sector Adjustment               To improve pedagogic effec-           1986    Completed
(Cr. 1744-GH)                             tiveness and recast financing
$34.5 M                                   to make public and private
expenditures cost effective
and affordable.
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit    To support ongoing reforms in             1988    Completed
(FINSAC)                                  financial system.
(Crs. 1911-GH, 1911-1-GH)
$106.6 M
SAC II                                    To improve incentives for sav-    1989    Completed
(Crs. 2005-GH, 2005-1-GH, 2205-2-GH)  ings and investments.
$134.0 M                                  To strengthen balance of
payments.
Education Sector Adjustment II            To support ongoing education          1990    Scheduled to close
(Cr. 2140-GH)                             sector reform.                                Dec. 31, 1994.
$50.0 M
Financial Sector Adj. II                  To support ongoing reforms in         1991    Scheduled to close
(Cr. 2318-GH)                             financial system.                             Mar. 30, 1995.
$100.0 M



- 17 -
B. Credit Position
As of November 30, 1993 (in US$ Million)
Outstand-
Credit              original        Disbursed *           Canceled              Repaid            ing .
2236                  120.00             115.19                -                  -               117.16
2236-1                  6.10               6.79                -                  -                 6.37
2236-2                  6.54               6.59                -                  -                 6.54
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements a
FY92              FY93              FY94
Cr. 2236
Appraisal estimate (USS)                                 60.00             120.00               -
ActuaL (USS)                                             56.96             115.19               -
Actual as % of appraisal (X)                              95%               96%                 -
Date of final disbursement: Apr. 14, 1993
Cr. 2236-1
AppraisaL estimate (US$)                                  6.10              6.10                -
Actual (USS)                                                -               6.79                -
Actual as % of appraisal (%)                                -               111%                -
Date of final disbursement:  Apr. 2, 1993
Cr. 2236-2
Appraisal estimate (USS)                                    -                 -               6.54
Actual (US$)                                                                  -               6.59
ActuaL as X of appraisal (X)                                          -                       101X
Date of finaL disbursement:  Aug. 27, 1993
a   The credits were fully disbursed.  Disbursed and outstanding totals differ from the original
amount of the credits in terms of US dollars because of changes in the USS/SDR exchange rate.
C. Credit Timetable
OriginaL date                           Actual
Initiating HemorandLxn                          1D/15/90                             10/15/90
Appraisal                                        10/10/90                            10/10/90
Negotiations                                    03/08/91                             03/08/91
Letter of Development PoLicy                    04/06/91                             04/04/91
Board Approval                                  05/28/91                             05/07/91
Loan Signing                                    06/10/91                             06/10/91
Effectiveness                                    07/01/91                            07/19/91
Second Tranche Release                          07/05/92                             02/22/93
Closing Date                                    07/31/93                             07/31/93



- 18 -
D. Staff Inputs
(staff-weeks)
FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92      FY93      FY94      Total
Preparation/preappraisal                     1.0     17.3      27.1         -         -        -       45.4
Appraisal                                      -         -    32.3          -         -        -       32.3
Negotiations/Board approval                    -         -     14.2         -         -        -       14.2
Supervision                                    -         -      4.1     33.1      25.4       1.3       63.9
TotaL                                  1.0      17.3     77.7      33.1     25.4       1.3       155.8
As of January 4, 1994.
E. Mission Data
Month/    No. of         No. of        Staff-
Mission type                       year      weeks        persons         weeks     Date of report
Preparation                         9/90      1.5             4            6.0      Sep. 1990
Pre-negotiation                     1/91      2.0             4            8.0      Jan. 24, 1991
Appraisal                          10/90      2.0             8            16.0     Nov. 1990
Supervision 1                  10-11/91       2.5             2            5.0      Nov. 1991
Supervision 2                       5/92      3.0             3            9.0      May 20, 1992



-19-                             Annex 1
Page 1 of 13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH)
Letter of Development Policy
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. Conable:
Re: Ghana's Program to Promote Private Investment and Sustained Development
1.    As part of its Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), the Government of Ghana is
implementing a wide range of economic reforms in the economy. By this letter, the Government
of Ghana requests from the International Development Association an adjustment credit to support
a program to promote private investment and sustained development. To this end, let me briefly
recapitulate our experience with the reforms that we have introduced, and then describe in some
detail the objectives and further actions that we intend to implement in 1991-92. Accompanying
this letter is a matrix that presents a timetable for these actions.
Background
2.    Ghana's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) has, since 1983, led to considerable
improvements in economic growth and development. We have made progress on many of the
broad objectives set out at its inception. The country's economic and social infrastructure have
been rehabilitated; fiscal and monetary discipline have been largely restored; and investment has
increased substantially, although the response from the private sector so far has been
disappointing.
3.    The major policies underpinning the efforts since 1983 have included the achievement of
a more realistic exchange rate, prices have been deregulated across a wide range of product
markets, accompanied by trade liberalization which increasingly enabled international competition
to discipline the price setting behavior in domestic markets. Improvements in government
revenue mobilization and the removal of subsidies in many areas contributed to a movement of
the government budget from large deficits into surpluses. Public sector employee-incomes have
increased, though modestly, funded in part by savings from the redeployment program.
Improved development spending contributed to rehabilitation in several areas including transport



-20-                             Annex 1
Page 2 of 13
infrastructure, and the cocoa, timber and mining sectors. Increased budgetary support has also
been provided for education and health.
4.    Since 1987, the ERP has been implemented through a Structural Adjustment Program
(SAP), supported by two IDA credits and cofinancing from bilateral and multilateral sources, that
sought to consolidate the gains of the initial phase of the ERP. The adjustment reforms have
focused on stimulating growth, savings and investment; strengthening the balance of payments
position; and improving resource mobilization and utilization.
5.    The structural reforms initially focused on macroeconomic policy issues relating to trade
and exchange rate management and restoration of fiscal and monetary discipline. From about
1986, however, emphasis has shifted to growth oriented structural initiatives. Programs and
projects have been implemented within the productive areas of agriculture and industry and the
social sectors of health and education.
6.    Economic performance over the reform period has generally been satisfactory. While
the annual growth of real GDP per annum has averaged 5.3 percent in the period to date, it has
not been even, besides inflation rates and current account deficits remain high. Domestic savings
and investment levels, particularly from the private sector, are, however, still inadequate to
sustain growth at even current rates.
7.    Under the ERP, the problem of poverty has been addressed through increased growth,
improved rural terms of trade, and more efficient allocation of public expenditures. While the
impact of the ERP on the poor has been by and large beneficial, there is still some cause for
concern. Further efforts are also required to maintain and further enhance the rural terms of
trade. It has to be recognized that increases in revenue as a share of GDP will now naturally
taper off, once the large gains from improved administration are exhausted. This means that
prospects for public expenditure growth will be more limited, and greater attention will have to
be paid to the growth focus of these expenditures.
Objectives
8.    The fundamental objective of macro-economic policy is attainment of sustainable growth
with development through commitment to market-based resource allocation. Fluctuations in
production have also exposed the fragility of the economy and underscore the need for continued
structural reforms and investment to improve the ability of the economy to adjust to changes in
the internal or external environment. Within the medium term framework specific objectives for
1991-92 include: ensuring a real GDP growth of about 5 percent per annum; reducing the average
annual inflation rate to 8 percent by 1992; generating sizeable overall balance of payments
surpluses; and ensuring the improvement of living standards through poverty alleviation
measures.
9.    The maintenance of real GDP growth rates at 5 percent per annum calls for increased
savings and investment efforts. While public effort must be maintained at the relatively high
current levels, the need for private sector efforts to assume the dominant share in both savings
and investment is crucial for the achievement of these targets. Incentives encourage savings and
investment must include maintenance of a market-determined exchange rate system, positive real
interest rates and flexible agricultural producer prices.



- 21 -                           Annex 1
Page 3 of 13
10.   Increased availability of investment opportunities would provide incentives for holding
cedi-denominated assets. Revived support for the productive sectors should be visible in the
implementation of the corporate restructuring program and the on-going Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprises (SME) project. In addition, the increasing budgetary allocation for rehabilitating and
expanding economic and social infrastructure and support for agricultural extension and research
would provide an impetus to private sector activities.
11.   To achieve the inflation targets, continued tight fiscal and monetary policies and supply
enhancing policies will be pursued.  Fiscal policy will be directed at further increasing
government savings. Monetary policy will be implemented within the framework of increased
reliance on open-market liquidity management.
12.   The external payments position still remains weak. The thrust of policy will shift from
reliance on receipts from traditional exports to non-traditional exports. Development efforts will
increasingly focus on our capacity to diversify production and exports, based on efficient
production practices and maintenance of a realistic, competitive exchange rate. Private sector
initiatives will be supported to achieve the intended investment and production goals.
13.   The sustainability of the program crucially depends on the equitable distribution of the
benefits of the reform program. While physical infrastructure has been improved significantly
over the period, there is a need to enhance the quality of human capital. Parallel sectoral
programs in agriculture, health, population and education will be implemented and, together with
the specific PAMSCAD programs incorporated in the PIP, will help alleviate poverty.
14.   The next phase of the reforms consists of continued implementation of macro-economic
policies that strengthen the incentive framework for savings, investment and production and
ensure macroeconomic stability. We will emphasize measures to improve the enabling
environment for private investors through tax reform and revisions in the legal and regulatory
framnework. Further progress will be made on state enterprise and civil service reforms. Public
expenditure will support activities in key productive sectors and social services.
Exchange Rate Policies
15.   Exchange rate policy has been driven by the need to deal with the severe price distortions
and the inadequate foreign exchange supply. In the wake of the unification of the foreign
exchange markets achieved in the second quarter of 1990, the policy focus will seek to ensure
the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate in the evolving inter-bank system.
16.   Policy actions during the program period will, therefore, include further widening of the
market to accommodate more participants, and deepening through the complementary
development of flexible open market operations in domestic currency. Monetary policy will
continue to be reinforced by fiscal policy.
17.   Over the medium term the focus will be on increased private capital inflows and
production for exports; although we will continue to need concessional loans and grants. In
furtherance of development of a unified foreign exchange market, the surrender of export
proceeds from goods other than cocoa and gold will be shifted from Bank of Ghana to the deposit
banks by the middle of this year.



- 22 -                           A x1
Page 4 of 13
Private Sector
18.   The private sector's role in achieving the growth targets of the economy is crucial.
Increased activity will satisfy three key objectives - higher investment, production, and
employment generation. Limited government budgetary resources for increased public investment
and the continuing modest response to date of the private sector underscore the need for fresh and
expanded efforts.
19.   Further economic incentives will include the commitment to maintain a flexible exchange
rate system.  In addition, supportive policies that will ensure a stable macro-economic
environment will continue to be implemented. This will include maintenance of low rates of
inflation, higher budget surpluses and a sustainable balance of payments position. The banking
restructuring exercise currently under implementation will improve the effectiveness of the
financial intermediation process, lead to reduction in costs of credit and provide greater access
to longer term financing for investment.
20.   Tax policies will also be employed to stimulate a more vigorous savings and investment
effort. Efforts will therefore be made to rationalize taxation of capital and investment income
to remove the bias against equity investment, and reduce the marginal effective tax rates on new
investment. Mergers and acquisitions will also be encouraged. The burden of high company tax,
the dividend income tax and capital gains tax has been lowered in the 1991 budget.
21.   Delays in the approval process, caused by multiplicity of institutions, overlapping
jurisdiction, and other procedures, practices and provisions that run counter to the spirit of
liberalization will be addressed. Recommendations made relating to: improvements in financial
internediation; necessity to revise laws which do not facilitate private investment; harmonization
of business establishment procedures; and improvements made to tax administration processes
aimed at promoting efficiency and equity, have been accepted by Government for implementation.
22.   The Laws to be revised will include the Exchange Control Act (1961 as amended in
1966), the Industrial Relations Act (1965), the Labor Decree (1967), Manufacturing Industries
Act (1971), the Investment Code (1985) and amendments to it. Government will be guided by
the need to reduce delays and the number of steps in the investment approval process and to
achieve transparency in the general body of laws. It is envisaged that most of the technical work
for revising the relevant laws and procedures will be completed by the end of 1991, for
Government approval during the early part of 1992. Measures will also be taken to streamline
administrative requirements relating to transfer of foreign exchange, import/export procedures,
technology transfer, granting of expatriate quotas and reducing restrictions on foreign ownership
of business.
23.   The Ghana Investments Center (GIC) will shift its emphasis from approvals to investment
promotion. It will produce a manual of benefits and requirements for potential investors to
enhance ready accessibility of information. Furthermore the Ghana Statistical Service will be
strengthened to ensure production of current economic and statistical data for the general public.
24.   The Govermment has set up an Advisory Group on Private Sector Development. Its
members are drawn largely from the private sector and include the current presidents of the
Association of Ghana Industries and the Ghana Chamber of Commerce. The group is supported
by a team of experts with backgrounds in law, banking and finance.



- 23-                            Annex 1
Page 5 of 13
Tax Policy and Administration
25.   The thrust of government's tax policy has been to improve the mobilization of adequate
local resources to finance higher levels of expenditures. Declining commodity prices, and the
unfavorable prospects for mobilizing concessionary resources externally, make local resources
crucial for sustaining the momentum of the recovery program. While tax policy will continue
to address the need for efficient revenue mobilization, in the future the focus will be on ensuring
that the tax regime promotes economic growth through a more favorable climate for investment.
The strategy will be to strengthen the implementation of existing policy while seeking ways to
introduce new measures based on recent studies.
26.   The agenda as relates to direct taxes includes broadening of the tax base, reducing the
tax rate on personal income, dividends, corporate income and capital gains; and initiating the
process of international tax harmonization. The implementation of the policy to broaden the tax
base through inclusion of allowances and in-kind benefits in total income will be strengthened.
The valuation of in-kind benefits would be improved to provide the basis for realistic assessment.
27.   The 1991 budget statement addressed some of these by introducing a number of tax
measures as part of a renewed effort to revitalize the private sector. The corporate tax rate,
applicable to agriculture, manufacturing, real estate, construction and services, was reduced from
45 percent to 35 percent; the withholding tax on dividends was reduced from 30 percent to 15
percent; the capital gains tax was reduced to a maximum of 5 percent, while income from
publicly traded shares and mergers and acquisitions is exempted from tax. Capital allowances
provided under the Investment Code have been extended to all enterprises in the manufacturing
sector.
28.   The Government intends to take additional actions in this area having regard to the overall
objective of stimulating a 'strong investment response and achieving a high growth rate. The
company income tax rate applicable to financial intermediaries and the printing sector and all
dividend income taxation, albeit reduced to 15 percent, have been criticized as unduly high and
Government is giving this matter close attention. The range and types of allowances to be
permitted for tax purposes and the whole question of fiscal incentives as investment promotional
devices is under active consideration.
29.   In the area of indirect taxes, the policy focus will continue to be on encouraging greater
tax compliance and broadening the tax base. The credit system (a limited form of value added
tax, VAT) which has been under study as a pilot project is expected to provide the basis for
determination,of an appropriate VAT system for the country. Continued efforts would be made
to reduce the variation in incentives across industries and to eliminate any anti-export bias of
protective taxes. The government will also reduce the scope of duty exemptions, and streamline
the duty drawback system to encourage non-traditional exports. The study on the effect of trade
liberalization on domestic industry will be completed by June 1991 and its recommendations
studied for early implementation.
30.   Much progress has been made in the area of tax administrations a lot, however, remains
to be done in areas of manpower development and institutional strengthening. Expanded in-
country training programs for staff of IRS and CEPS will be implemented side by side with
public education campaigns. As part of the general scheme to improve tax administration, a
unique tax identification number for individuals will be introduced this year.



-24-                             Annex 1
Page 6 of 13
31.   To speed up customs clearance processes, CEPS will implement the decision to merge
into one exercise the physical inspection of imports now conducted separately by CEPS, the
Ghana Port and Harbours Authority and the security services. In addition, in order to  iiize
the problem of congestion at the ports, CEPS will encourage the processing of documents to start
before the arrival of goods. On computerization within CEPS, efforts will be made to expand
the ASYCUDA system to the other ports of entry, and with the appropriate modifications, if
necessary, to cover all the direct and indirect taxes, by December 1991.
32.   The IRS will streamline procedures for filing returns and payment of arrears, particularly
for the self-employed. Steps have been taken to address the concern of the private sector arising
from customs clearance procedures and from the use of tax clearance certificates. A significant
relaxation of the TCC was announced in January 1991, with only four categories of transactions
remaining on the required list. The Government intends to continue to review the requirements
for TCC.
Public Expenditure Policy
33.   Public expenditure policy will continue to be guided by the need for increased efficiency
in resource use. In the medium term, the objectives are to increase domestic savings; to pursue
prudent wage policy while ensuring that the professional classes are adequately remunerated.
Public investment programs will continue to be directed toward the rehabilitation of infrastructure
guided by the needs for the priority sectors of agriculture, health and education.
34.   Considerable efforts have been made to improve resource allocation through the three
year rolling public investment programming process and the development of norms for non-wage
recurrent expenditures in key ministries. Continuing efforts will be made to improve budgetary
procedures and strengthen expenditure monitoring and control. Activities will focus on timeliness
of budget preparation, improved budget formulation and coverage and strengthening of the Audit
Service and the Controller and Accountant General's Department to discharge their
responsibilities more efficiently. In addition, the quest for increased cost-effectiveness requires
that social infrastructural needs of the poor are carefully integrated in the public expenditure
program.
35.   In order to enable implementation to commence early in January, it is planned to
announce the budget in the last week of December. The budget document will be more
comprehensive and will incorporate more information on external aid commitments and
disbursements. In this connection, improvements will be sought to enable implementation of a
broad based budget by 1992. Preparatory work on systems development will be undertaken in
1991, to facilitate full implementation in 1992.  In the meantime, in order to enhance
implementation capacity, more attention will be paid to establishing a commitments-based
budgeting system.
36.   The inadequate costing of services and other costs associated with project implementation
have contributed to higher realized costs. Besides, untD recently, returns on actual costs were
not systematically analyzed. These weaknesses wIll be remedied through improved budgeting and
accounting procedures. In addition, budget information on planned and actual expenditures will
be fully computerized to facilitate analysis. In addition, the Government intends to review the
contract approval process with the view to reducing delays.



- 25 -                           Annex 1
Page 7 of 13
37.   The three-year PIP will continue to be prepared annually within a macro-economic
framework which will be updated periodically. The PIP will also continue to emphasize the
rehabilitation and expansion of economic and social infrastructure to support private sector
activities as well as addressing the needs of the poor. The recurrent cost implications of the PIP
will be given serious consideration. In order to improve the poverty focus, analyses by region
and program (basic education, primary health care, agricultural extension) of the distribution of
current and capital expenditure have begun. On the basis of these, budget guidelines will be
developed to increase the relative share of expenditure going to poorer regions; and to programs
benefitting the poor.
38.   Budgetary allocations for agriculture will support work mainly in extension and research.
Problems of low productivity, high post harvest losses, and inadequate and inefficient
infrastructure have plagued the sector. Activities of both applied and basic research at the
agricultural research institutions and of extension services will, therefore, be adequately supported
by increased supply of physical inputs to provide the impetus and enabling environment for
sustained growth and efficient and competitive agriculture. The details of agricultural policy
measures and activities outlined above are contained in the IDA supported Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (AGSAP) and the government's medium term agricultural development
programs (MTADP).
39.   For the industrial seC, the strategy requires the rehabilitation of potentially viable
enterprises in processing especially in the agro-based (including forestry) sector. In this,
however, Government intends to play a limited di=c role and consequently will encourage the
growth of a vigorous private sector. Government's intention of stimulating private sector
development is to be advanced through minority participation with the private sector. This will
help to establish the proposed Enterprise Restructuring Fund envisaged under the ERP. In
addition, government will support management and technical manpower development institutions.
These institutions will be expected to provide extension-type support in industry.
40.   Like most developing countries, systematic analysis of our enviromental problems began
only recently. Problems of deforestation, poor sanitation in urban areas, industrial pollution and
soil degradation are quite common. In order to address these, a National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP), a National Plan of Action to Combat Desertification and a National Conservation
Strategy are being prepared. The recently completed draft of the NEAP envisages proposals to
improve the quality of national life. These proposals cover such areas as a land use plan,
envirommental education programs, community forestry programs, and an environmental impact
assessment mechanism in the country and implementation of an industrial waste management
program.
41.   While the EPC is to provide overall coordination of this effort, several institutions such
as the Forestry Commission, Factory Inspectorate Department and the National Energy Board,
will be directly involved in the implementation of the proposed programs. In addition, district
environmental management committees will be set up for monitoring and coordinating activities
at the district level.
Poverty Alleviation
42.   As indicated in the earlier sections of this letter, the Government's economic management
policies will be driven by the concerns for improving private sector development and reducing



- 26 -                           Annex 1
Page 8 of 13
poverty. The following section will address issues related to poverty alleviation under the
headings of health and population, education and other social sector issues.
43.   The main thrust of government's health plicy is to increase access to quality health
delivery services through the implementation of an effective primary health care program. The
strategy is to consolidate the program under implementation through better delivery of services
and to expand the coverage.
44.   This commitment to expand health delivery services entails considerable provision of
infrastructure, at all levels. To meet this need, including rehabilitation requirements, the
government will match resources and manpower mobilized at the community level. Government
will provide for a regular maintenance of buildings, plants and equipment to improve health
services. Measures to ensure efficient and equitable use of drugs and dressings through a cash
and carry system; institutional restructuring, involving reorganization of the health system leading
to decentralization of operational responsibilities, activities and control of resources; and, in
addition, manpower improvement plans, will be implemented.
45.   The government's RoRulation policy aims at securing higher living standards for the
people. The immediate aim is to reduce the population growth rate of about 3 percent. Current
activities are therefore geared toward strengthening the institutional capacity for effective
coordination of population programs. The recently established Population Policy Implementation
Assessment Committee (PPIAC) will help to put in place, by the end of 1991, a National
Population and Human Resources Commission (NPHRC) which will be responsible for advising
government and monitoring population programs. The health and population sector project,
which will be implemented during 1991-95, will promote greater sectoral consistency in
population programs and projects. In addition, the 1969 policy program will be revised to
incorporate emerging issues such as youth problems, teenage and adolescent pregnancies, drug
addiction, the problems of the aged and environmental issues.
46.   Institutional restructuring measures being taken to complement the physical improvements
in the sector include decentralization and manpower improvement plans. The Ministry of Health
is being reorganized with a view to decentralize its operational responsibilities, activities and
control of resources. In order to provide qualified staff to manage such plans, the strengthening
of hospital management teams has become urgent. The recent appointment of Boards for the two
teaching hospitals is the first step; and this will be replicated over the system. The need for
qualified managers will be met from Health Services administrators' upgrading courses which will
be mounted through seminars and formal courses. The government's efforts will be aided by
effective co-ordination of NGOs involved in health service delivery activities.
47.   By the middle of this decade on-going programs involving immunizations will aim at
reducing infant mortality rates from the current level of 77 per 1000 births to 67 per 1000. Pre-
and post-natal services will be geared to reducing the maternal mortality rate from 10 per 1000
deliveries to 8 per 1000. Increased use of modern contraceptives will be promoted to double the
current usage rate for women aged 15 49.
48.   The first phase of the educational reform program which was implemented in 1987-89
focused on the implementation of the Junior Secondary school (JSS) program which reduced the
length of pre-university education, reformed the curriculum, and provided more textbooks and
instructional materials. Teacher training facilities expanded to support the program.



-27-                             Annex 1
Page 9 of 13
49.   In the second phase the restructuring and expansion of Senior Secondary Schools (SSS),
is being emphasized. The objectives are to improve access, quality and relevance of education;
diversify school curriculum to cater for different talents and skills; and ensure sustainability of
the reforms through cost-effectiveness and cost-recovery schemes.
50.   The curriculum broadening and deepening processes will be implemented to prepare
students for a wide range of occupations. To improve efficiency, the frequency and quality of
classroom supervision will be raised; while efforts will be made to ensure increasing use of
professionally qualified tutors. Quality of educational staff will be improved through a continuing
program of massive in-service training courses for teaching, management, and supervisory staff.
In order to secure a sustainable program, cost recovery measures and cost effectiveness of
expenditures would continue to be pursued. Such measures would include increased utilization
of local materials where appropriate, operating a revolving fund for book replenishment based
on collections from book user fees, eliminating the direct subsidy for school feeding, reducing
the number of non-teaching staff and close monitoring of procurement and disbursement
procedures to minimize waste.
51.   The efforts made and the successes achieved under ERP have led to a lessening of the
extent of economic hardships experienced in the period immediately preceding ERP. Supply of
goods and services including social infrastructure and facilities in health, education and housing
have been improved. However, the search for a lasting reduction in poverty continues. This is
because continuing hardships are being faced by vulnerable groups such as non-cocoa, small-scale
farmers, retrenched workers, underemployed and unemployed workers in the urban informal
sector and children.
52.   Securing higher living standards in our environment essentially means increased
generation of productive employment. In this connection, the efforts to improve savings and
investment will support improved living standards through higher production. Well coordinated
support for small-scale agriculture and other small-scale economic ventures, mainly in mining and
manufacturing, will be provided through the PIP with credit in the form of revolving funds and
extension-type technology diffusion support. Other funding sources including IFAD's small-
holder program facilities, IDA sponsored rural finance and SME credits, together with the
improved services expected from restructured rural banks will be geared to stimulating small-
scale production and income generating activities.
53.   The short term benefits of the ERP will continue to be secured through PAMSCAD.
While these programs have come to be seen as government's immediate response to the plight
of the poor, they have also, in a number of cases, become major sources of local resource
mobilization. Several lessons have been learnt from PAMSCAD; and projects and programs such
as the community initiative projects (CIP), small-scale agricultural programs, hand-dug wells, low
cost sanitation and non-formal education that have proved successful will be incorporated in the
PIP.
State Enterprise Reforms
54.   The objectives of the state-owned enterprises reform program have been to improve
efficiency and profitability; reduce the financial burden on the government budget; increase
managerial autonomy and accountability; and mobilize additional financial and entrepreneurial
resources. In the medium term the activities of the reform program wIll continue to be geared
toward strengthening management and financial performance, and streamlining the sector through



-28 -                             Annex I
Page 10 of 13
restructuring and divestiture. In this context, the program will ensure expansion of the private
sector role in commercial activities, while government concentrates its resources and efforts on
providing basic services.
55.   In order to accelerate the pace of divestiture, several options, namely outright sale, public
or employee share issue, leasing, management contracts and liquidation are being actively
adopted. By January 1991, 37 SOEs had been divested. The program also envisages a
divestiture of 25 enterprises in 1991. Progress on implementation will be monitored on the basis
of nine identified key action steps. These include preparation of a list of SOEs to be divested,
updating financial statements, valuation, preparation of company dossiers, advertising and
identifying investors, evaluation of investors' proposals, negotiating with selected investors,
approval of divestiture by DIC and conclusion of transactions. Subsequently, yearly targets will
be set within the context of government's policy for raising additional equity capital, infusing new
management expertise, and/or technology. In any particular year, the necessary provision for
liabilities of divested enterprises will be made in the budget after off-setting resources gained
from previous divestment. The allocation for 1991 is C3.5 billion. Liquidations have accounted
for a fairly large proportion of divestment until 1989 since then, however, the focus has shifted
to privatizations.
56.    For the SOEs, mainly utilities, which remain in the government's portfolio, strengthening
of management capabilities and financial and operating performance is of prime concern. Apart
from specific manpower development programs to improve professionalism of staff, institutional
restructuring will be accelerated. Selected enterprises which now prepare Corporate Plans will
continue to update their plans yearly. In addition associated performance agreements will be
prepared and signed yearly for 13 priority enterprises. Government's financial support to
enterprises which are reflected in the budget will also be explicitly captured in the enterprise
corporate plan and performance agreement. The outcome of these agreements will be closely
monitored. To support this and generally aid the management process, preparation and
publication of timely audited financial accounts will be ensured.
Public Sector Managenent
57.   The increasing demands of the reform program on the management expertise of the public
sector, especially the Civil Service, has imposed strains. The shortage of skills has not only
affected typical administrative personnel but also the technical professional classes. The current
program seeks improved efficiency by the creation of better incentives.
58.   As part of the efficiency and productivity increasing drive, reduction of excess labor,
particularly at the lower echelons, will be continued and at the same time skill shortages in
critical areas will be relieved. The Management Services Division (MSD) will continue its
systematic job inspection exercises and define optimum staffing levels for ministries, GES and
subvented organizations through annual manpower hearings, as was done during the 1991 budget
preparations.
59.   Meanwhile the redeployment program is being extended to subvented organizations. For
1991, the Government will maintain a redeployment target of 12,000. The year-end net
redeployment for the civil service will be at least 2500 and would permit selective recruitment
to fill vacancies at higher levels. Achievement of the target will be monitored on a monthly basis
through PPMD'S manpower data base. For 1992, the Government will set appropriate new year-
end targets for redeployment and for employment levels.



- 29 -                            Annex 1
Page 11 of 13
60.   Provision of incentive wages/salaries has remained a thorny national issue but particularly
so in the civil service. Government policy is to provide a pay structure that generally ensures
that efficiency and productivity are duly rewarded. The Prices and Incomes Board will prepare
an Incomes Policy and Guidelines which will form the basis of the tripartite discussions on
salaries. The 1991 pay package combined a general pay increase and a further stretching of pay
relativities. Progress was made from the 1990 level of 9.4:1 to achieve 10.1:1 gross relativities
for 1991. However, this understates the progress made. After taking into account the impact
of the consolidation of major allowances into the basic wage and revisions in the personal income
tax structure, the after tax ratio rose from 6.7:1 in 1990 to 9.2:1 in 1991. Government remains
committed to the medium term target of 13.4:1 (pre-tax), the establishment of a uniform
incremental date and regrading of all civil service posts into a reduced number of occupational
classes.
61.   Current plans are to develop a 12-grade structure for senior staff and a much reduced
number of job classes at junior levels, all based on systematic job evaluations. When the
processes of job evaluations and costing proposals are also completed for the junior levels by
mid-1991, it would be possible to detail an implementation program for introducing the new
grading structure at the start of 1992. Performance appraisal systems which are being developed
will be finalized to serve as the basis for introducing a system of merit pay by 1992.
62.   Efforts underway to strengthen civil service management will continue throughout the
program period. MSD will continue to play an essential part in helping to bring about efficiency
improvements. In addition to ongoing job inspections, it will put increasing emphasis on
management reviews, with a view to rationalize organizations and reduce wasteful duplication of
functions. As a further means of improving efficiency, the possibility of privatizing services such
as security, cleaning and facility maintenance will be explored. This will be done on an
experimental basis at first.
63.   PPMD will pursue its efforts to reinforce its ability to maintain data on manpower levels
and flows, and carry out manpower planning exercises, for which its Manpower Planning Unit
will play an increasingly important role. A focused effort will be made to address the needs and
succession planning requirements at management levels in the Civil Service. PPMD will also
assist Ministries seeking to establish manpower planning units. PPMD and Ministerial capacities
will be considerably enhanced in this respect with the development of an integrated
personnel/payroll information management system.
64.   The Training and Manpower Development Division (TMDD), in addition to managing
ongoing training activities, will produce a civil service training strategy which will serve as a
basis for the planning of training activities in the next few years.
Financial Sector Policies
65.   The need to strengthen the financial sector so that it discharges effectively its
responsibility of facilitating the implementation of business activities under ERP/SAP, led to the
design of a Financial Sector Adjustment Program, (FINSAP). The broad objectives of FINSAP
have been to establish a well functioning and broadly based financial sector with a viable and
effective banking system at its core; and to design a financial system that remains sensitive and
responsive to national development priorities. In line with these, measures such as liberalization
of interest rates and removal of sectoral credit ceilings have been undertaken. As part of the
overall measures to enhance the soundness of banking institutions, the legal and regulatory



-30-                               Annex 1
Page 12 of 13
framework has been improved and supervision strengthened, while management, institutional and
financial restructuring of the banks is being implemented. The two-prong strategy now is to
strengthen implementation of the on-going reforms in the commercial banks, as well as to
diversify and strengthen the financial sector.
66.   The turn around plans specific to each bank, which address management, institutional and
financial weaknesses, are being implemented with positive results. Apart from internal
development of, and search for competent managers, external recruitment within the context of
twinning arrangements with reputable international financial institutions have been organized.
Where twinming arrangements were not possible, individual experts and professionals are being
recruited to fill key posts.
67.   A Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART) has been set up together with its
special judiciary tribunal; and is now fully operational. Side by side with NPART a corporate
restructuring program for potentially viable enterprises will be launched to revive real sector
activities. The NPART activities in terms of work-outs for distressed enterprises will
complement the corporate restructuring program and provide the banking sector with healthier
clients. The activities in the corporate sector and private sector development, in general, are
expected to be further strengthened by the operations of the newly established stock exchange
which commenced trading business in November 1990.
68.   To facilitate the implementation of the financial sector reforms, the Bank of Ghana will
be recapitalized and its foreign currency losses reflected in revaluation losses are being
transferred to the government. Its operational capacity in terms of procedures and techniques will
be improved to enhance its effectiveness in the supervision of commercial banks and other
financial institutions and in implementing monetary policy. A healthy and stable non-bank
financial sector will be developed.
69.   The reforms in the financial sector especially those relating to the commercial banks and
the program for strengthening BOG should lead to greater availability of resources for the private
sector, higher efficiency in financial intermediation and help to reduce costs thereby contributing
to a reduction in the spread between lending and deposit rates.
Monitoring
70.   Implementation and monitoring of the reform activities are becoming more and more
challenging over time. This is partly due to the increasing number of activities and programs and
the growing complexities of project design requiring installation of new systems and procedures.
This has meant an increasing input of technically sound professionals and experienced
management teams.
71.   Ensuring effective implementation and monitoring of programs will involve strengthening
of institutions, and streamlining of procedures and processes. In addition, availability of timely
and adequate information/data will be important for close and effective monitoring.
Institutionally, the co-ordinating role of Ministry of Finance in the management of World Bank
projects will be further strengthened. In this respect, the recently established World Bank Desk
will serve as a link between the implementing agencies and IDA and its resident mission. The
implementing agencies will establish a systematic reporting format and liaise with the World Bank
Desk. At least once in every quarter there shall be a project review exercise and implementing
agencies will report on their activities. In between, the SAP Monitoring Unit at Ministry of



-31-                             Annex I
Page 13 of 13
Finance and Economic Planning will collect monthly reports on the status of implementing
agencies' activities. The World Bank Desk will also serve as the Secretariat of the SAP team
which will continue to oversee the management of the program.
Conclusion
72.   In view of the initiatives taken by Government in the formulation and implementation of
the next stage of reforms, the Government of Ghana requests your favorable consideration for
the extension of an adjustment credit in the amount of at least US$120 million to support a
program to promote private investment and sustained development.
Yours sincerely,






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAIND DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTION CREDIT OR THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDITS 2236, 2236-1, 2236-2-GH)
Procy Matrix
Overview
Secmul Phase (By Secord Tranche
Key Refoarm  Arema                         First Phase (By Effectiveness)            Reltea)                                   CcetsStatu
A. PflIIOTIOU OF PRIVATE SAVI19S AM1
INVESTlN T
1.  Maintenance of macroeconomic          Agree on macroeconomic framework In    Adhere to agreed upon macroeconomic    Major stippages ckiring 1992  caused
stability,                            context of PFP.                            framework.                                by election-related expenditure pres-
sures and adverse external economic
conditions.
2. Change tax poticies and adainis-    Reduce capital and personal Income            Further reduce tax rates and              Tax reforms were Implemented on
tration to improve irnesteent         taxes and consolfdated allowances          rationalize tax structure.                schedule.
climate and mobilize revene.
3. shift regulatory framework from         Eliminate or simplify some licenain    Further simplify legal requirements    Satisfactory progress made, after a
direct controls to market-based        requfrements, sifpiffy forex transac-  and regulatfonr related to private           delay.
mechanisms.                            tions procedures.                         Investment.
B.  STATE-oSAIW ENDTM   UISES
4. Acceterate state enterprise             Agree on corporate plns and               Complete 1991 divestiture program,         Substantial progress made.
reform to improve efficiency of    performance agreements for 13 core            and agree with IDA on 1992 divesti-
state enterprises producing pub-   public enterprises.                           ture progrm.
lic goods. Progressively disen-
gag  from prodcutf0n of other         Complete 1990 divestiture program  nd
goods and services,                   agree on work program  for 1991-92.
C.  PULIC EXPEITtRE
5.  Improve pbilc expenditure man-    Agree on 1991-93 Pubtic Investment            Agree on 1992-94 PIP and Implement         Reforms were implemented as antici-
agewnt, targeting econormic and       Program  (PIP) and publc procurement   agreed measures to Improve efficIency  peted, although with soa   delays.
social Infrastructure  nd im-         procedures.                                of public procuramant procedures.
proved  ff f cincy.
6. Poverty alleviation.                    Agree to analyze poverty focus of         Asse   poverty orientation of 1992         Progress made in Increasing
1991 budget and use results to            budget on basis of guldelines formu-   availability of relevant data.
formulate guidelines for 1992 budget   lated from  analysis of 1969, 1W990
allocations.                              md 1991 budgets.  Decide strategy
for 1992.                                                                               1
o R
-J



Second Phase (By Second Tranche
Key Reform  Areas                         First Phase (By Effectiveness)            Release)                                 Comments/Status
D. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
7.  Economic Policy and Productivity.  Agree to further decompress salary           Civil service reform through salary    Satisfactory progress made. Civil
scale and reduce civil service           scale decompression and reduction in   service numbers were on target.
numbers.                                 civil service numbers.
8.  Personnel Payroll.                    Improve personnel and payroll manage-  Improved personnel and payroll man-         Installation of personnel and payroll
ment.                                     agement.                                 management system delayed but in
progress.
Matrix of Actions Taken and to be Taken (1991-92)
A. Promotion of Private Savings and Investment
objectives: To maintain stable macroeconomic environment that faciLitates private Investment and savings, as well as to improve incentives for same, to
promote a more dynamic supply response to the program, to expand economic opportunities for private initiative.
Area of reform                            Actiors taken or to be taken before    Actiors to be taken before Warch 1992  Implementation Status
hay 1991 (Effectiveness)
1. Macroecnom ic conditions:  Sig-        Agreed on PFP covering 1991-93.           Continued implementation of macroeco-  1991 program was implemented as
nificant progress In restoring        Inflation decelerated to 27X by 2/91,  nomic program as outlined In PFP,           agreed.  There were substantial sip-
macro stability despite sharp         In part due to implementing an            adjusted as necessary in consultation  pages In 1992, with the result that
terms-of-trade deterioration.         increase in the BOG rediscount rate    with IDA and IMF.                           no macro condition of IMFs Enhanced
Public savings averaged 2.5X of       and Intensified open market                                                        Surveillance Program was met.
GDP, compared with 0.1X in 1985.   operations.  Several lending rates
External arrears eliminated,          turned positive In real terms.
Debt service ratio fell from 67X
to 39X between 1988 and 1990.
Inflation, after decelerating
from 142X to 27X between 1983 and
1988 (end period basis), in-
creased to 41X In 9/90.
2. Exchange Rate:  Retail forex auc-  Maintenance of market determined              Maintenance of market-determined ex-   Policy of market-determined exchange
tion and bureau markets unified,   exchange rate system.                        change rate system.  Increase share    rate system was maintained.  In March
Most remaining exchange restric-                                                of export proceeds surrendered to         1992, weekly forex auction, coordi-
tlons on current account transac-                                               commercial banks.                        nated by Bank of Ghana was replaced
tions lifted.  Spread between                                                                                            by Interbank market.  Also In 1992,
bureau and wholesale auction                                                                                             processing of Import requests
rates eliminated.  Auction ex-                                                                                           transferred from Bank of Ghana to
panded to include service pay-                                                                                           commercial banks.
ments on approved private exter-
nal borrowing. Transformation of
auction from retail to wholesale
market with expanded role for
commercial banks. However, lim-
ited base for Interbank exchange
market because of surrender re-
quirements to Bank of Ghana.
hd D
a) 



Area of reform                           Actions taken or to be taken before    Actions to be taken before March 1992  Implementatlon Status
May 1991 (Effectiveness)
3. Trade Regime:  Complete unifica-    Rate of supersales tax reduced from    (a) Complete study on effect of trade  (a) study was done.
tion of tax rates between compa-    range of 75-500X to 10-100X.               liberalization on domestic industry.
rable imported and domestically                                                                                        (b) comnittee was estabifshed to
produced goods.  Lower both Im-                                                (b) Estabtish procedures and criterfa  review procedure and criteria.
port duty rate on semi processed                                               to review rates of duty on particular
goods and special tax on textile                                               products.
imports.  Import duties range                                                                                          {c) Special import tax ranging from
between 0, 10, 20. and 25X with a                                              (c) Eliminate special Import taxes      40-10X was rationalized and reduced
special import sales tax of 10-                                                except for beer, spirits and tobacco   to uniform rate of 10X and 1993
40X. (Variations in effective                                                  products, where they wfil be reduced   budget eliminated duty rate of 202.
protection remain malnly because                                               to 10X.                                 Thus the Import duty rates are now 0,
of special Import taxes and duty                                                                                       10, and 25X plus an across-the-board
exemptions.)                                                                   (d) Reduce scope of duty exemptions    Import sales tax of 10X.
and streamline duty drawback system.
(d) Super sales tax was abolished.
Taxes and duties on passenger cars
revised. Import duties and sales
taxes on tvs reduced to 0O for black-
and-white and 7.5X for color.
4. Direct Taxes:  Level of personal    Reduced corporate Income and personal  (a) Reduce differences between top           (a) Implemented. Top marginal
Income tax raised.  Some loop-       income tax, dividend tax and capital   marginal tax rates on personal and         corporate tax rates on finance
holes with respect to non-taxable  gains tax.  Further raised level of    corporate Income mainly by lowering    lowered from 50 to 35X; on commerce,
allouances closed,  Withholding      relief on personal income taxes.          rates for finance and printing          printing and publishing from 50 to
tax on dividend payments con-        Distinction between salary and non-    Industries,                                standard 35X; top marginal personal
verted to final tax.  Company        taxable allowances removed.  Imple-                                               tax rate Is also 352.
income tax rate lowered and          mented other measures to decrease the
capital gains tax modified,          tax burden on equity finance.
(b) Make further progress on double    (b) Done.
taxation agreement negotiations with
principsl trading partners.
(c) Implement further steps to          (c) Done - tax brackets adjusted.
rationalize base, rate,  nd bracket    See (a) above.
structure.
(d) Extend limit on tarry-over period  (d) Limit extended  nd dividend
for losses and further reduce           taxation reduced withholding tax on
dividend taxation,                      dividends reduced from 152 to 10X.
(e) Expand base to include cash  nd    (e) Done.
In-kind benefits that remain tax-
exempt or under value.
5.  Indirect Taxes: Reduction in         Reduced sales tax rate from 22.5 to    Further reduction In sales tax rate    Sales tax reduced to 17.5% In 1992
sales tax rate from 252 to 22.52.  17.52                                       If VAT is introduced, otherwise as      and to 152 In 1994.  Introduction of
inconsistencies eliminated in                                                 resources permit.                        VAT planned for January 1995 wnd
determining base for excise and                                                                                         prep rations for VAT on track.
sales taxes. Taxation on petrol-
eum products and vehicles In-                                                 Acree with IDA on changes in tax          Tax changes anounced In 1992 budget,
creased.                                                                       structure and anmounce in 1992           as agreed.
Underlined actions are conditions of second tranche release.
0 w



Area of reform                           Actions taken or to be taken before    Actions to taken before March 1992          Implementation Status
May 1991 (Effectiveness)
6. Tax Administration:  ASYCDA           Contiroed Installation of ASYCUDA for  Complete comprehensive review of           Preparation for VAT progressed
system to Improve collection of    customs taxes. Cornenced operation    design options and feasibilfty of a    satisfactorily; VAT implementation
custom taxes being Inrtalled,        of Tax Appeals Tribunal.  Improved       VAT.                                     platwed for January 1995.
Unique company taxpayer Identifi-  administration permitted elimination
cation number Introduced. Sales    of 9 of total of 13 TCC requIrements.  Complete installatfon of ASYCUDA for   ASYCW DA working but Inadequate
tax administration study cm-         Streemll ed customs procedures.          custom  taxes and extend to other        staffing prevents its full use.
pleted.  Pilot study on feauibil-                                             direct and  ndirect taxes.
Ity of replacing current system
with a VAT. Tax Appeals Tribunal                                               Introduce unique taxpayer               Unique taxpayer identificatfon number
set up.  Tax clearance certifi-                                                identification nusber for               for individuals being Introduced as
cates Introduced to improve col-                                               Individuals,                            pert of VAT.
lectfors.
Contirue reforms to encourage
voluntary compliance, including         Reforms for voluntary compirance,
further review of need for TCCs.        including review of need for TCCs,
ongoirg.
7. Regulatory Fraamewrk:  GOG ex-        Process uider way to harmonlze df-       Progress in receatina or revfsfng, f   Done.  Government formulating recown
panded dialogue with private         verse business registration form,s    narier satisfactory to IDA, Exchange   mendations on labor Issues, Including
sector,  Conference held to pro-   expected to lead to elimination of         ControL Act.  n     rtial Retati         Industrial Relations Act and Labor
mote direct foreign Invvestment.    requirement to obtain mvnufacturing    Act. Labor Decree  nd Marwfacturinn   Decree.  simplified forex procedures
Foreign direct Investment in         and Invvestment policy Licenses. Pol-  Industries Act. Make Drogress In re-  advertised by BOG.  Nanufacturing
mining grouwng. Reform of banking  Icy AdvIsory Group drawn from prIvate  viain         v Investment Code. with view to   industries Act 1971 repealed. Other
system started.  However, level    sector. established to gufde review    reducing steps in lenathy swovat             Laws relating to price control re-
of private Investment Inadequate   of legal regulations affecting pri-    !rocess and to eliminating most fis-   pealed,  including Price control
to support growth objective.         vate investors.  Agreed an prinri-                    es.  Satisfactory lrog-    Decree 1974, and Amendment, 1977, and
Regulatory framework not codified  ples, process and implementation            ress on other aspects of work Proraim  Control of Sale of Specific Goods
to reflect ERP's liberalization    schedule for review of legal reguLa-   To re          lea  regulations-             Decree, 1976.  Amendments to Invmest-
of economy. Flscal Incentives not  tions affecting private Inve tors.                                                  ment Code and Regulations Implemented
effective In attracting Invest-                                                Government to finalize guidelines on   In 1992: (a) reduced number of
ment.                                                                          technology transfer agreements.          Industries reserved exclusively for
Ghanaians from 20 to 4; (b) reduced
Ease and meke more automatic imeigra-  minimum foreign capital requirements
tion procedures for expatriate tech-   from USS60,000 to USS10,000 for Joint
nical and managerial staff,             ventures, and 0 for export trading
enterprises; (c) withdrew requirement
for Investment Policy License wfth
effect from December 4, 1992 and
consolidated various forms.
Board of GIC allowed to meke suitable
amendments relating to technology
transfers.
Firms with USS10,000 to USS100,000 In
paid up capital automatically allowed
to hire two expatriate workers, and
firms with USS100,000 and above,
four.
Wo  f



B. Slae-owned Enterprises
Area of reform                            Actions taken or to be taken before    Actions to be taken before March 1992  implementation Status
May 1991 (Effectiveness)
Objectives:  To improve efficiency and financial performance,  increase accountability, reduce size of sector.
1.  lnvrove EfficlencY and Financial   Corporate plans updated and perform-          aodte coroorate olans for  3            Done.  Performance agreements were
Performnce: Efficiency and            ance agreements for 1991 signed for    orlority enterDCises and finalize           igfred with 13 prfority SOEs: State
financial perforasnce agreements   13 priority enterprises.  Performance  egrformance asreements.                        Shipping Corp; Ghana Airways: Ghana
signed for 13 priority                based incentive system finatized.                                                  Cocoa Board; Ghana Supply Cownission;
enterprises, based on updated                                                   Begin to implement performance based   Ghana Oil Company Ltd; Ghana National
corporate plans.  Performance         lmplement action plan.                    incentive system.                        Petroleum Corporation; Volta River
based Incentive system developed                                                                                         Authority; Electricity Corporation of
by SEC.                               Completed review of studies and pre-   Implement action ptan. Comptete study  Ghana; Tems oil Refinery; Ghana Water
pared action plan,  including ration-   of legislative and Institutional           & Sewerage Corporation; Ghana Ports
Studies completed on pricing,         alizing collective bargaining agree-   framework of state enterprises              and Harbors Authority; Posts and
staffing, rmmeration, and             ments.  Ensured that performance          relative to that for private sector    Telecommunications Corporation; Ghana
procurement practices of SOEs.        agreements take account of steps to    status.                                     Railways Corporation.
clear any cross debts between
Cross debt study completed and        Government and SOEs.                                                               Efforts urder way to separate non-
arrears between Government and                                                                                           commercial from commercial opera-
mjor utility companies settled.                                                                                          tfons, both new and ongoing. Greater
efforts to pay taxes and dividends.
Some enterprises making large prof-
Its. (Volta Power Authority, P&T),
are still tax exempt.
2. Reduce Size of Sector:  13 SOEs        10 additional enterprises divested.        asfactor  convIetfon of 1991            Various steps were taken to divest
liquidated (in addition to 10 In   Agreement on 1991 work progrm  for          divestiture Drogram and asreement on   SOEs Including the adoption In July
1988) and 5 sold.                    divestiture.                               1992 Proram.                             1992 of a divestiture program for
1992 acceptable to IDA. Only 28 SOEs
Moratorium on creation of new         moratorium to remain in effect for                                                 were divested during 1991-93 period
SOEs in effect.                       duration of program  except as agreed                                              in the sense that mst of proceeds
with IDA and subject to existing                                                   were collected; for another 16 SOEs,
laws.                                                                              no payments have been made by the
buyer though sales contracts have
been signed. Most of these will have
to be re-offered for sale.
o 9J
-J



C. Public Expenditures and Poverty Alleviation
Area of reform                           Actions taken or to be taken before    Actions to be t&iken before March 1992  Implementation Status
May 1991 (Effectiveness)
Objectives: To ensure puiblic expenditures are consistent with macroeconomic framework; to improve atlocations for operations and maintenance; to increase
efficiency of pubtlc spending and improve focus on poverty alleviation; and to strengthen budget procedures, and expenditure control and
monitoring.
1. Ncroscowmic Frmework: Macro-   Agree on PFP covering 1991-93.                 Update macroeconomic framework twice   1991 program was imtplemented as
economic framework updated for                                               a year.                                 agreed.  There were substantial slip-
PFP and review of 1990-92 PEP.                                                                                       pages in 1992. with the result that
none of the macro targets was met.
2. Efficiency of Public Expendi-         Agree with IDA on TOR for design of    Budget document to include Informa-    Starting with the 1992 budget, sub-
tures:  Draft guidelines on          budget informtlon system. which         tion on development expenditures,       stantial progress was mde in pre-
recurrent expenditure allocations   would link information on PIP and aid  including foreign financing.              senting budget in "broad based" for-
for health, educaton, and agri-   flows with budget.                                                                 mat, although it was not published, a
culture, used to prepare 1989 and                                                                                    mjor objectives of the reform.
1990 budgets. PIP needs to better
address recurrent cost lmplica-
tions of projects.
PIP Task Force was incorporated    Agree with IDA on 1991 recurrent          Asreement with IDA on 1992 current      Done. Government reached agreement
into lnvestwent Projects Analysis  allocations  nd 1991-93 PEP.              expenditures and 1992-94 PIP,           with IDA on 1992 atlocations for
Division of FEP. Work uidertaken                                                                                     recurrent expenditure, and on 1992-94
to mtch classification of PIP                                                                                        PIP.
and budget accounts. Need to
incorporate PIP more fully into
budget.
3.  Poverty Alleviationm  PANSCAD        Work under way to evaluate poverty      Adjust spatial distribution of social  1992 development budget included
being implemented. Budget allo-   focus on public expenditure.               sector PEP expenditures to account       regional information. 
cations for social sectors have                                              for needs in poorest areas   Ensure
risen.  Need to use public ex-                                               focus on services of most benefit for
penditures more effectively to                                               poor. Review progress on incorporat-
alleviate poverty.                                                           Ing poverty concerns into PEP, by
analyzing actual expenditure distri-
bution In 1991, nd assessing experl-
ence in use of guidelines.  Make pro-
posals for necessary modifications
and possible extension.
4.. Buget Procedires, Exe_diture         (a) Enforced compliance with sectorat  Issue  budget circular by 6/91. Sec-   Budget circutar for 1992 was issued
Control, wd Nonitoring:  Sec-       ceilings and allow sufficient review   tor ministries to be given indicative  In timely mnner, with Indicative
toral allocation  for recurrent    within sector ministry.                   sectoral allocations for recurrent       sectoral allocations including
and capital expenditures provided                                            and capital expenditures. Budget         external project assistance.
in budget circular for 1991 bud-   Cb) Amrour.cement of 1991 budget as       expended to include external project
get.  Coverage of budget incom-    agreed with IDA.                          assistnce, and summary pubilshed.        Suomary budget document was not,
plete, as external project assis-                                            Agreed 1992 budget announced. Com-       however, pubilished as agreed.
tance not Included. Preparation      (c) Steps taken to reduce delays in    mitments based monitoring system
of biannual reports on actual ex-  contract approval process.                 implemented. Biannrul reports on        1992 budget agreed with IDA, but no
penditures on development budget.                                            actual non-rate and Interest current   progress on producing commitment-
Establishment of Expenditure Mon-                                            expenditures, broken down at line and  based monitoring system or biannual
itoring Unit In MFEP.  Design of                                             sector ministry level, wd develop-    reports.
commitments based monitoring sys-                                            ment budget for 1991.
tem, but data on recurrent ex-
penditures inadequate. Also,                                                  Imlmentation of actions to revise    Done.
control and monitoring of commit-                                            contract approval Process In order to
ments inadequate, and financial                                               reduce delaysie
procedures cumbersome.
o S



D. Civil Service Reform
Area of reform                            Actions taken or to betaken before        Actions to be taken before March 1992  Implementatfon Status
May 1991 (Effectiveness)
Objectives: To improve effectiveness of poblic wdhinistratfon, to enable Goverrinent to attract and retain qualified staff, and to strengthen personret and
payroll mnagement.
1.  Econmic Poticy:  Establishment    Comfission consultancy to develop             Take steps to strengthen PAD.            Very littLe accomplished In 1992 in
of Economic Policy Division in        organization and operation of Policy                                               part because It was difficult to
MFEP.  Incorporation of SAP sec-   Analysis Division (PAD),                                                              recruit and retain trained
retarfat Into NFEP and assigrnment                                                                                       professional in civil service.
of staff to coordinate economic
reform and retated sector pro-
gram. However, economic policy
making still week, because of
lack of trained staff  nd uncer-
tainty on priorities.
2.  Civil service Prodictivity:           Completed job evaluation for Junior    Iwlement =av & grading restructuring  Done.  In parallel, and using pay and
Civil service pay raises In 1989    and senior posts.  Implemented pay           in 1992 budset                          grading as the rationale  a large
and 90 Increased salary differ-       restructuring to further decompress                                                (80X) salary increase given that had
ences between highest and lowest   salary structure.  Implement program                                                  very little to do with the pay and
paid.  Job evaluation of senior    prepared for Introduction of new                                                      grading exercise.
and Junior posts in progress,         grading structure.
14,000 staff redeployed in 1989    Redeployment targets set for 1991.           Implement of 1991 redeployment pro-    Done.
and 12,000 In 1990. Management    Prep. by GOG of report anslyzing              gram and targets for 1992.  Further
Services Division of OHCS carries  ilpact of redeployment problem               expansion of mnagement reviews
out Job inspections and               through 1990. Agreement on                including closer links with Budget
management reviews.  Average of    additional management reviews to be    Division.
10,000 job inspections being car-  Included In work progrem of NSD.
rled out per sinu. Two manage-
ment revfews carried out.
3. Persotl awd Payroll 1_ tagInmt:    Approval of contract for requfrements  Sufficient oroaress on installation    Sufficient progress made.
Feasibility study conpleted for    study for integrated personnel/              of intesrated oersomel and Davroll
integrated personelJ/peyroll  man-   payroll  mgement system.                   management system.
agement system. Goverrvnent
approval to install system.           Systems of marpower ceillngs and          Implement new performance appraisaL
other measures to Increase control        system throughout civil service.
Payroll data Improved to provide   over recruitment establifshed.
more information on stafffng                                                    Prepare and implement merit pay
levels.  PiLot testing of new                                                   system.
performance appraisal system.
Underlined actions are cornditions of second tranche release.
o fi
-J 



I






1! 9AC,' . II tl;
-1 r~1'.     I l  r:   'I   II "-                                              
It  II       I. .    F,  
Ir ,. .                   V( !-       



