Document of
The World Bank
FOR.OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report %O. P-5499-CH
RPORtT AND RECOMMEDATION
OF THE
PR}SIDENT OF THE
INTEpNATIONAL DzVELOPM       ASSOCIATION
TO THE
*              G~~~~~XECUTIVE DIECOR
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 84.6 MILON
TO THE
RPCUBLC OF GUANA
FOR A
pROGRA  TO PROMOTE PRIVATE INVESTMEN
AND SUASRANED DEVEWNMENT
APRML S, 991
thi                       ~.: t . ,jg~  -  ,.'  *,~
tbk d_zmo has a rlesttd disribudien W may be aud by *edpk-ts only in Ow pedonsuct of
dWr *Wki dutks. Its coem ama ao oberwise be dtwan withoz WOds m  saf-ie.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1°91)
Currency Unit - Cedi
US$1             ¢361 (Auction Rate)
¢1            -  US$0.0028
ABBREVIATIONS
AEF       -   African Enterprise Fund
ASYCUDA   -    Automatic System of Customs Data Entry,
Control and Management
BOG       -    Bank of Ghana
CEPS      -    Customs, Excise and Preventive Service
RAP       -    Environmiental Action Plan
EMS       -    Economic Management Support (Project)
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
ESAF           Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
QIC       -    Ghana Investment Center
GLSS      -    Ghana Living Standards Survey
IPA       -    Investment and Project Analysis
(Division)
iRS       -    Internal Revenue Service
MFEP      -    Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning
MSD       -    Management Services Division
NRS       -    National Revenue Secretariat
NPART     -    Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust
ODA       -    Overseas Development Administration
(U.K.)
OHCS      -    Office of the Bead of Civil Service
PAS       -    Public Agreements Board.
PAMSCAD   -    Program of Actions to Mitigate the
Social Costs of Adjustment
PIB       -    Prices and Incomes Board
PIP       -    Public Investment Program
PFP       -    Policy Framework Paper
PPMD      -    Personnel Policy and Management
Division
SAP       -    Structural Adjustment Program
SEC       -    State Enterprise Commission
SOB       -    State-Owned Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROGRAM TO PROMOTE PRIVATE INVESTMENS AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPNENT
Table of Contents
Paxe Nos.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SIR   .................. . . i-ii
PART I - INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
PART II - COUNTRY POLICIES AnD M    GROUP SSISTACEST       G    . .. 2
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
The Economic Recovery Program  .....   ...........  . 2
Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program 1987-1990  . . . . . 3
Financial System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
The Government's Policy Agenda and Issues  . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Bank Group Operations  . ....................  7
The Lending Program - Level and Composition  . . . . . . . . . . 10
Relations vith the IMF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Summary Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PART III - POLICYA-NDl 1991-92  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Policies to Promote Private Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Public Resource Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT . . .   . . . . .. .a . . . . . . . . .21
Credit History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
External Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
Credit Administration, Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . 23
Monitoring and Tranche Release Conditions  . . . . . . . . . . . 24
PART  R     .E .   .N.   .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ..  26
I.  Economic Information ....... .. .. .. ..              *       * . 27
II.  Letter of Development Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
III. Supplementary Data Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipents only in the perfWize
of their oWial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed vithout World Bank at thorizatin.



RPPUBLIC OF GlWt
PlIOGlM  TO PROMOTE PRIVKTE INVESMT AJND SUSTASiND DEVELOPET
CREDIT AND PROGRM S Y
Borrower:         Republic of Ghana
Amounts            SDR 84.6 million (US$120 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Descrintion:      The Government's program of actions to promote higher
levels and more efficient investment in the economy
aims to achieve an average growth rate of about 5
percent a year, raise investment to 18 percent of GDP
by 1992, and raise national savings to 12 percent of
GDP. To achieve these targets, the program aims to
create an enabling environment for private investment
by: maintaining macroeconomic stability; undertaking
tax reform so as to improve the incentives for private
investment and savings; taking steps to make the
regulatory framework in Ghana more consistent with the
liberalized economy; and making further progress on
state enterprise reforms. The Government also will
maintain the momentum of reforms designed to increase
the efficiency with which public resources are used
and, thereby, enhance their support of private sector
development. Measures to alleviate poverty are also
incorporated into the program. The Government's
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and the
accompanying matrix of policy actions outlines the
actions designed to achieve these aims. Also attached
ti the LDP is a table summarizing the expected trends
i;  _ey economic variables resulting from
implementation of the program.
Benefits:         The program to promote private investment and
sustained development, would build on the gains
achieved since the introduction of the Economic
Recovery Program in 1983. The projected real GDP
growth rate of about 5 percent a year will allow per
capita consumption to increase by about 1 percent per
year. Higher investment will lay the foundation of
future growth, and the projected rise in national
savings will lower Ghana's dependence on foreign
savings in the future. The maintenance of
macroeconomic stability will help to build the
confidence of the private sector. The commitment to a
market-determined, competitive exchange rate and
continued reforms in trade policies will encourage
non-traditional exports and stimulate new import
substitution activities. Reforms in the structure and
administration of taxes will improve the incentives
for private savings and investment, while



(ii)
strengthening public finances. Changes in the
regulatory and administrative framework would
encourage more dynamic economic activity by the
private sector. State enterprise reforms would open
up opportunities for private investors, while also
improving the provision of public goods and services
and increasing the contribution of parastatals to the
public savings effort. Better public expenditure
management will concentrate resources on high priority
areas in infrastructure, health, education, and
agricultural research and extension and improve the
focus on poverty alleviation. Changes in the size and
management of the Civil Service will increase the
motivation and effectiveness of Government
departments.
Riskst            Two principal risks could threaten the achievement of
the program's objectivess an inadequate private
investment response and insufficient implementation
capacity within the Government. The Government is
addressing the former issue by: maintaining
macroeconomic stability, reforming the tax system,
creating a legal and regulatory framework more
conducive to private investment, improving the
provision of public services, and taking other related
actions which would demonstrate the Government's
desire for an active role by the private sector. In
order to minimize this risk the Government's
commitment to private sector development must be
unambiguous. Nevertheless, it is difficult to judge
when these actions would bring results. Regarding the
latter issue, several programs are in place to
minimize this risk. Technical assistance and training
programs financed by IDA and other donors are
available to support a wide range of measures to
strengthen public sector management, particularly in
the areas of budget preparation and execution and
civil service and state enterprise reform. The
Government intends to streamline contract approval
procedures in order to reduce delays in project
implementation.
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable.
Estimated
Disbursements:    The credit will be disbursed in two tranches:  US$60
million upon effectiveness and US$60 million after a
performance review to be held around March 1992.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OP GHANA
TO SUPPORT A PROGRAM TO PROMOTE PRIVATE INVESTMENT
AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
1.          I submit the following report and recomendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 84.6 million (US*120 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity to the Republic of Ghana to
support the Government's program of actions to promote private investment
and sustained development.
2.           An economic report, entitled Ghanas  Progress on Adjustment
(Report No. 9475-GH), will be issued simultaneously to the Executive
Directors. Annex I gives selected economic information for the country.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
3.          The Economic Recovery Program (ERP) launched by the Government
in April 1983 was a dramatic break with Ghana's previous policies and is
one of the most sustained reform efforts in Sub-Saharan Africa. Its
initial objectives were to stabilize the economy, remove important economic
distortions, and reverse the serious deterioration of the country's
infrastructure. The ERP has attracted the support of both the Bank and the
International Monetary Fund, as well as other donors. Since 1987, the Bank
has provided three adjustment credits to Ghana - Structural Adjustment
Credits I and II and a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. The economic
consequences of the reform program have been positive. Growth has averaged
nearly 5 percent per annum since 1984 in spite of a deterioration in the
terms of trade of about 30 percent since 1987. External arrears, sizable
in 1983, have been eliminated. Stronger fiscal performance has enabled the
Government to repay its debt to the banking system.
4.            These positive signs notwithstanding, the Government intends
to accelerate the adjustment effort so as to sustain these improvements and
to promote higher growth, while maintaining macroeconomic stability. In
order to accomplish these objectives, the most serious weakness of the
adjustment program - the inadequate level of domestic investment and
savings - must be addressed. There is not enough private investment to
fuel the growth needed to raise living standards and generate sufficient
employment, and a large share of savings comes from external sources. In
spite of the implementation of the structural adjustment program, the
rewards for savings and investment are not attractive enough to induce
large private flows. In spite of significant liberalization of many
aspects of the economy, excessive controls and unnecessary regulation
discourage a broad-based supply response. The role of the private sector
in influencing policy is minimal. Against this background, the Government
has developed a program to be supported by a propossd fourth adjustment
credit with the aim to promote more dynamic private investment and
sustained development.



- 2-
PART Tl - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
5.            The deterioration of the Ghanaian economy in the 19709 and
early 1980s stemmed from a combination of inappropriate policies and
exogenous shocks. Large budget deficits, in part supporting an extensive
and inefficient public sector, caused inflation to rise. Given a
reluctance to adjust the nominal exchange rate, the real rave appreciated
significantly. The resulting decline in the output of exports and import
subsditutes, combined with disenchantment amongst aid donors, caused a
prolonged foreign exchange crisis. The Government responded with foreign
exchange and import controls which in turn further constrained growth. The
decline in the tax base due to the reduiction in exports and imports and the
related drop in economic activity forced major cuts in government
expenditures. The resulting deterioration in the once well-developed
infrastructure further lowered productive capacity. The response to
shortages was additional price controls and rationing, which worsened the
problem by eroding production incentives and creating a vast parallel
market with its related corruption, smuggling and tax evasion. Declining
real incomee and reduced economic opportunities caused many skilled
Ghanaians to leave the country.
6.          These problems were exacerbated in the early 1980s by a severe
drought and by a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. The cumulative
effect of the downward spiral can be seen in the trends in economic
indicators between 1970 and 1982: per capita real income declined by 30
percent, import volumes dropped by a third, real export earnings fell by 52
percent, domestic savings and investment declined from 12 percent and 14
percent of GDP respectively in 1970, to almost insignificant levels, while
inflation averaged 44 percent per annum.
The Economic Recovery Program
7.          The major objectives of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
were to: (a) shift relative prices in favor of production, particularly
exports; (b) restore fiscal and monetary discipline; (c) initiate
rehabilitation of the country's productive base and infrastructure; and (d)
restore incentives for private savings and investment. The main actions
taken under the ERP are summarized below.
8.          The Government devalued the cedi in stages.  A foreign exchange
auction covering almost two-thirds of external transactions was established
in September 1986. Administered prices were increased to reflect the
impact of the new exchange rate and most price and distribution controls
were removed. The Government reduced fiscal subsidies and mobilized
resources through improved tax collection and higher consumption taxes.
Public sector salaries and the statutory minimum wage were raised to offset
partially the massive erosion in real incomes. Civil service pay
differentials were widened to improve incentives for senior staff.



9.          In addition to improvements ir. the Incentives framework, the
Government restructured public expenditures. Provisions for operations and
maintenance, as well as for health and education were increased.
Preparation of a rolling, three-year capital expenditure program was
initiated in 1986. Major rehabilitation programs were started,
particularly for transport, other infrastructure, and the key productive
sectors of cocoa, timber and mining.
Impact of the Structural Adiustment Program 1987-1990
10.         Macroeconomic Conditions.  The first and second Structural
Adjustment Credits supported the move to a market-determined exchange rate.
Access to the foreign exchange auction was expanded gradually and in 1988
the Government permitted the establishment of foreign exchange bureaus. In
April 1990, the Government introduced an interbank foreign exchange market
supported by weekly wholesale auctions. Ghana's foreign exchange market
operated smoothly in the face of these reforms. The real effective
exchange rate depreciated by slightly over 20 percent in 1987, by about 5
percent in 1988 and 1989, and was unchanged in 1990. The differential
between the two rates has disappeared from a peak of 50 percent in early
1989 and foreign exchange is now easily available. These reforms have been
complemented by liberalization of payments and transfers for current
international transactions.
11.         The improvement in Ghana's external competitiveness has
strengthened the incentives for exports, resulting in a notable expansion
in cocoa and gold. During the period 1987-1990, exports grew on average by
9 percent a year. However, primarily because of lower prices for cocoa,
the main export, and the recent increase in petroleum prices, the current
account deficit has grown from 5 percent of GDP in 1987-88 to 8 percent in
1990. Most of the deficit has been covered by concessional assistance.
12.         After moderating from 40 percent in 1987 to 31 percent in
1988, inflation began to accelerate in late 1989. Several factors seemed
to be involved. Growth in money supply was higher than programmed because
of overperformance on the net foreign assets target. A large liquidity
overhang and administrative, structural, and technical weaknesses made it
difficult for Bank of Ghana to execute monetary policy. The impact of poor
weather conditions on agricultural output and the increase in the
international price and excise taxes on petroleum played a role in 1990.
During the last quarter of 1990 price pressures began to subside, in part a
result of more forceful and effective implementation of monetary policy.
On an end of period basis, the inflation rate dropped from a peak of 41
percent in September to 36 percent in December.
13.         Incentives.  The main actions which the Government took weres
raising cocoa producer prices; eliminating most restrictions on trade; and
reforming the tax system. The share of the fob price received by cocoa
farmers rose from 23 percent in the 1986/87 crop season to an estimated 47
percent for the 1990191 crop season. The increase reflected the adjustment
to a more realistic exchange rate; reduction in the high costs of the Ghana
Cocoa Board, a parastatal which has a virtual monopoly on domestic



purchases and external sales of cocoa; and a decrease in the excessive
taxation of the farmer. The impact on production was significant. Output
rose sharply from 228,000 tons in 1986/87 to about 300,000 tons in 1988/89
and 1989/90, reflecting in part the virtual cessation of smuggling.
14.         By the beginning of 1987, Ghana's impor.. tariff levels were
moderate by developing country standards, and except for a few products,
quantitative restrictions had been removed. However, differences in import
and domestic sales taxes accentuated variations in effective protection.
In 1988 the Government realigned import and domestic sales taxes and
further compressed the tariff structure. The import licensing system was
abolished in early 1989. Currently Ghana's tariff structure generally
provides for a relatively uniform level of protection, with most duty rates
ranging from zero to 25 percent. Special mport taxes raise nominal
protection to 25-60 percent for some products. With the introduction of
the super sales tax in 1990, however, some backsliding on tariff reform
occurred. The rates originally applied were high and, since in practice
applied only to imports, raised effective protection for some products
significantly. The definition of luxury goods was also very broad. A
reduction In these rates was announced in the 1991 budget (para. 47).
15.           Vhen the Economlc Recovery Program began in 1983, revenues
were only 5.5 percent of GDP. The tax structure was also costly from an
efficiency standpoint due to excessive reliance on international
transactions, particularly cocoa, and high rates of company and personal
income tax levied on a low base. The move to a more realistic exchange
rate improved revenue performance. In addition, the Government began to
reform the tax structure. Over the period 1987-1990, the Government
expanded consumption taxation (petroleum and motor vehicles), consolidated
tax rates, and improved administration. Relief was raised for personal
income taxes and some of the loopholes relating to allowances were closed.
The Government also lowered the implicit tax on cocoa and corporate taxes
(from 55 percent to 45 percent for manufacturing, construction, farming,
and exports and to 50 percent for all other sectors). The unequal tax
treatment of dividends and interest on savings began to be addressed by
converting the 30 percent withholding tax on dividends into a final tax.
The Government also examined, with IMP technical assistance, the structure
of taxes on capital and investment income with a view to identifying ways
to stimulate private savings and investment and increase the efficiency of
resource allocation.
16.         Public Resource Management. Measures focused on three areas -
public expenditures, the civil service, and state-owned enterprises. In
the area of expenditures, the Government strengthened its capacity to
prepare the rolling, three-year Public Investment Program (PIP).   Planned
public sector investment in 1990 continued to concentrate on physical
infrastructure (58 percent). Outlays on social sectors accounted for
nearly 20 percent of the program. Expenditure data for 1989-90 showed that
progress was being made in developing the capacity to implement the
program. Expenditures from budgetary resources were 95 percent of the
planned level, and the magnitude of sectoral over- or under-expenditure was
lower than in the past.
17.         Progress was made in reforming the Civil Service and Ghana
Education Service pay structure and in reducing overstaffing. The
Government videned the pre-tax ratio between the compensation of the
highest and lowest paid civil servant from about 5.5:1 in 1988 to 9.4*1 in
1990. After retrenching slightly over 12,000 excess staff (including non-



- 5 -
teaching staff of the Ghana Education Service) in each of 1987 and 1988,
the Government laid off almost 14.000 in 1989. and by end 1990, a further
12,000, cumulatively representing about 16 percent of total employment.
The Government also has introduced measures to control and monitor
recruitments more carefully.
18.         The main objectives of state-owned enterprise (SOB) refotms
were to reduce the size of the sector through divestiture and to improve
the efficiency of priority enterprises through the monitoring of agreed
targets based on corporate plans and associated performance agreements.
Initial progress on the former has been slow mainly because most of the
early efforts focused on preparing the framework for privatization,
including buildti. more support within the Government, creating an
institutional arrangement for implementing the program and developing
operating policies and procedures. Initial delays adversely affected
private sector confidence. As of the end of January 1991, a total of 38
enterprises had been divested, of which 23 were liquidations of
negligible, inactive companies and 15 were privatizations (including joint
ventures, management contracts, leases, and sales of shares) since the
program began in 1987. On the other hand, capacity to use the corporate
plans and performance agreements as one instrument to improve the
operations of state enterprises has increased. For eight state-owned
enterprises, out of the group of 13 preparing corporate plans for which
financial results are available. the value of profits (after interest and
taxes) rose from .5 percent of GDP in 1988 to 1.5 percent of GDP in 1989.
Financial System
19.         As the Government began to implement the structural adjustment
program it recognized that the weak financial system was an obstacle. In
particular, it was hindering the ability of investors to respond to
improved incentives aud the mobilization of domestic savings. Banks in
Ghana had been adversely affected by the deterioration in the economy. The
system also had been distorted by interest rate controls, selective credit
policies, lack of competition, and weak supervision by the Bank of Ghana.
This led to pervasive financial distress which was characterized by huge
non-performing loan portfolios. The financial reforms which began to be
implemented in 1988 included: enactment of a new Bankin8 Act which
established prudential banking provisions, introduced uniform accounting
and auditing standards and improved reporting requirements to the Bank of
Ghana; a strengthening of Bank of Ghana's supervision capacity: and a
phased program of bank restructuring Involving the replacement of non-
performing assets with performing assets, primarily bonds, which was
completed in early 1991. Now that the banking system is on a stronger
footing, its ability to respond to the demands for credit from the private
sector is improved.
The Government's Policy Agenda and Issues
20.         The commitment to stay the course of reforms, determined
macroeconomic policy decisions and the willingness to tackle difficult
issues have enabled Ghana to make significant progress in stabilizing and
restructuring the economy. Yet, the Government's economic vision entails a
still extensive agenda. The improvements thus far largely reflect progress
towards restoring macroeconomLc balance, but much more remains to be
accomplished. Economic recovery has beeu driven by higher public
investment and now needs to shift to private sector led growth. Services
remain well below past standards, state-owned enterprise reforms have moved



w 6 -
slowly, human resource development, poverty and environmental issues need
to be addressed, and the limitations in the Government's implementation
capacity have been magnified by the increased demands of the reform
program. Efforts also are underway to widen local participation in
decision-making through elected district assemblies and to draft a new
constitution.
21.         Private Sector.  The share of investment in GDP is estimated
to have reached 16 percent and the share of national savings 8 percent in
1990. These shares are much lower than the 22-23 percent investment rate
and 19 percent savings rate in countries which have consistently achieved
3-7 percent per annum overall growth.l1 This gives cause for concern
because, as excess capacity in the economy shrinks, maintaining even
current rates of growth will require more investment. Since 198S
investment has risen; in the early years, this was driven largely by public
investmint. In the future, public investment is expected to grow more
slowly than in the past. Therefore, it is estimated that private
investment would have to grow at an average of about 15 percent a year in
real terms to maintain a GDP growth rate of about 5 rercent a year.
22.         Ensuring that adequate resources, particularly credit, are
available to support a rapid growth of private investment is an important
policy objective of the Government. To achieve this, Government
expenditures will be managed carefully to avoid crowding out the private
sector. Tn each of the laet four years, the Government has contributed
resources to the banking system averaging 1 percent of GDP, which has
permitted increased credit to the private sector in spite of tight monetary
policies. This will continue to an even greater extent over the next fsvw
years. In addition, the Government will persevere with the financial
restructuring of banks, Including the Bank of Ghana, and the overhaul of
their management systems. Private savings will be encouraged to grow
steadily through higher corporate profits, the restoration and maintenance
of positive interest rates, the availability of an increased array of
financial instruments, sharper competition between banks for domestic
deposits, and a growing range of investment opportunities.
23.         Private investors are still reluctant to commit themselves to
new investments. Among the factors responsible for this reluctance are
poor infrastructure and the large number of public enterprises. In
addition, some officials still iistrust the profit motive and believe in
controls. More generally, private investors are not convinced that the
reforms are permanent. 6hana recognizes that it will take more than good
economic management to transcend these legacies from the past. It requires
a shift in attitudes towards greater openness in Government, less
intervention in private economic decisions, a more transparent legal and
regulatory system, and better information on the economy and Government
policies and operations. Regulations need to be clearer and subject to
less discretion by government officials and businessmen must be confident
that disputes will be handled through due process.  Furthermore, to be
perceived by the business comunnity as welcoming, rather than just
tolerating a larger private sector, the leadership is taking the initiative
to demonstrate its support for private sector development.
24.          Mana_ement and Imlementgtion Capacity.  With the deepening of
the adjustment process and the build up of livestment activities,
l/     World Bank, World Develoment Reort, 1989, Table 2.1.



- 7 -
absorptive capacity is being challenged. The Government has made some
progress in invigorating the civil service -- a major challenge after
decades of deterioration in discipline and salary levels. However, the
still low pay and compressed wage scales between higher and lower grades
makes it difficult to attract many professionals to the civil service. The
quality of information is poor and the ability to analyze data requires
considerable improvement. Decision-making processes are overly
centralized, cumbersome and slow. Procurement procedures need to be
updated and streamlined urgently to reduce long intervals between tendering
and receipt of goods and services. Mindful of the excesses of previous
regimes, the Government has installed complex systems of checks and
balances which cause delays. Prompt accounting and publication of audits
and clearer guidelines would reduce the need for such systems, and permit
delegation of some decisions.
25.         Lonu-Term Issues.  Human capital development and poverty
alleviation continue to be central concerns. The Government recognizes
that Ghana's development prospects depend not only on restructuring the
economy but also on developing the human, and preserving the natural,
resource base. First, progress in lowering the population growth rate is
essential if the gains from economic recovery are to translate into
improved incomes and living standards. A continuation of current fertility
levels will triple the population by the year 2020, with serious
repercussions for health and education services, water supplies, housing,
employment and the environment. Second, the progress in drawing up a
comprehensive environmental action plan needs to be followed by effective
initiatives to stem environmental degradation and measures to ensure that
environmental costs are taken Into account in economic decision-making.
Third, adequate and quality health care and education must be provided to
develop a healthy and skilled vork force and to increase productivity.
26.         The Government believes that the real test of the success of
economic reforms is the extent to which they lead to an enduring reduction
in povert, in the country. The strategy for alleviating poverty comprises
four components: first, increasing the demand for labor through high
levels of growth and * labor-intensive pattern of development; second,
increasing the availa&Ility and efficiency of capital to raise the
productivity of labor; third. increasing the productive assets of the poor
through improved health and education services and rural mobility; and
fourth, allocating public expenditures to programs which particularly
benefit the poor. Although the program of actions to mitigate the social
costs of adjustment (PAMSCAD) took time to gain momentum, implementation of
some components is underway. These include community initiative projects,
support to women's groups, hand-dug wells and low-cost sanitation, priority
public works and non-formal education. As experience is gained, the
successful components will be integrated into the investment program as was
intended at the outset.
Bank Grout Operations
27.         The objective of the Bank's operational strategy for the next
3-5 years is to assist the Government to sustain macroeconomic stability,
while shifting emphasis to sectoral improvements. Three elements provide
the basis of the program proposed. First, facilitating private sector
development is central to achievement of the country's growth objectives.
Second, improved management and administrative capacity will be essential
to the Government's ability to effectively utilize the resources which have
been mobilized and to create an enabling environment for investment.



Finally, increased efforts on longer term development issues such as
population growth and environmental pressures will be key to sustaining the
progress of the program.
28.         Private Sector.  The Bank's program reflects the high priority
of private sector development. In agriculture, the strategy is designed
to increase its contribution to rural incomes and employment and to
encourage higher output of commodities, in addition to cocoa, for which
Ghana has a comparative advantage. Reforms to eliminate subsiaies and
privatize marketing of fertilizer and other inputs are taking hold.
Furthermore, a medium term agricultural development strategy (MTADS) which
defines the measures needed to promote growth has been prepared jointly
with the Ministry of Agriculture. Policy and institutional reforms would
be supported through a sector adjustment operation, complemented by
investment lending to increase smallholder access to strengthened support
services and infrastructure. These activities would pay careful attention
to preserving the natural resource base.
29.         The Bank also collaborated with the Government in an
examination of the constraints to more dynamic private investment. The
study identified possible reforms in tax structure and the legal and
regulatory framework. Implementation of these reforms would be supported
by the proposed credit. The Bank will continue assistance to help
strengthen the financial system. The next phase of financial sector
adjustment would encompass the strengthening of the Bank of Ghana, measures
to develop capital markets, and further reform of the banking system,
including measures to lower intermediation costs and increase competition.
The impact of these measures, coupled with lower inflation, should increase
the availability of longer-term financing for investors.
30.         Support for private sector development also calls for
streamlining the role of the public sector In the economy. An important
theme in the Bank's dialogue with the authorities is the disengagement of
Government from the production of goods and services which could be more
efficiently provided by the private sector. Acceler.ating the divestiture
program is important for several reasonss to send a strong signal that the
Government does not intend SOEs to crowd out the private sector and to
allow the Government to focus its limited resources on activities where it
has a comparative advantage. The divestiture of some state-owned
enterprises and improvements in the operations of other 803E providing
essential public goods or services would be supported under the proposed
fourth adjustment credit.
31.         A critical role of Government in support of the private
sector, and one that Ghana has played well in recent years, is the
provision of public goods and services, particularly infrastructure. The
Bank has assisted with rehabilitation of transportation, power, and urban
services. Major programs to improve telecomunications and water supplies
are also underway. The strategy for the future is to assist the Government
ins (i) continuing to focus public expenditures on high priority
infrastructure investments; (ii) introducing sound maintenance practices to
prevent the existing capital stock from deteriorating; (iii) reducing the
budgetary costs of infrastructure investments through increased
commercialization, cost recovery, and reforms in local taxations and (iv)
encouraging the private provision of public goods and services,
particularly urban services.



32.         Manatement and Imolementation CayacitX.  Better implementation
will be critical to the sustained success of the Government's economic
strategy. Improvements in public sector management are an important
element of the Bank's lending activities. Almost all investment projects
would continue to include support to improve the capabilities and
performance of relevant agencies. A technical assistance credit is
supporting improvements in economic management. It would help strengthen
budget preparation, execution and monitoring and aid and personnel
management. In addition, sector work on management training and
implementation capacity is being carried out in FY91. Civil service reform
is central to the strengthening of implementation capacity and would be
supported under the proposed operation. A streamlining of contract
approval procedures would also be supported under this credit.
33.         Long-Term Issues.   Because of weak implementation, Bank
support to health and family planning services has had limited success.
More recently, the Government has endorsed the findings of Bank population
sector work which lay out the consequences of alternative strategies and
recommends an approach. Assistance for family planning has been
incorporated in a health and population project recently approved by the
Bank. Decisive Government action on program and institutional issues would
be supported by additional assistance. The recent project aims to increase
access to quality primary health care, improve the availability of
essential drug supplies, and improve hospital services in underserved areas
of the north. At the policy level, the emphasis is on adequate cost
recovery and the development of a maintenance capability to improve the
sustainability of health services, and adequate provision for non-wage
recurrent expenditures. At the institutional level, the focus is on
reorganizing and strengthening the Ministry of Health.
34.         With Bank assistance, the Government has implemented
impressive education reforms, improving the quality, effectiveness and
relevance of education, expanding and improving access, and making
financing more efficient and equitable. The primary enrollment ratio has
risen from 65 percent in 1987/88 to 72 percent in 1989190, and increased
budgetary allocations have helped rehabilitate schools and provide teaching
materials. Primary and secondary curricula have been revised, subsidies at
the secondary and tertiary levels are being eliminated, and excess staff
are being retrenched. A second operation to support the next phase of the
program has been approved by the Bank. It would consolidate the reforms
initiated at the primary and junior secondary levels and extend them to
senior secondary schools. In addition, based on sector work and drawing on
pilot programs being carried out under PAMSCAD, the Bank is proposing to
support a functional literacy program. Sector work also has been initiated
to analyze the constraints and potential for formal and non-formal skills
training to help meet some of the public sector's needs for technical and
managerial manpower. Finally, Bank assistance is planned in response to
recent requests from tertiary education institutions, particularly
universities, indicating a willingness to adopt the reforms necessary.
35.         Much of the Bank's proposed strategy discussed above supports
the Government's objective of alleviating poverty. The support, through
the Bank's macroeconomic and sector operations, of policies which emphasize
the efficient use of capital and foreign exchange avd encourage the growth
of such relatively labor-intensive activities as smallholder agriculture,
labor-intensive road works and small scale manufacturing encourages the
demand for labor and promotes higher productivity. In designing an
approach to support women in development, the Bank's strategy is to ensure



a 10 -
gender sensitivity in our overall country work; bring services physically
closer to women; involve women in the formulation and management of
programs benefiting them; and work with and strengthen women's groups so
that they are better placed to take advantage of economic opportunities.
The Bak is supporting several pilot programs targeted to women.  For
example, agricultural extension services are being geared to women farmers
who will account for the majority of farmers at the turn of the century.
In addition, the participation of women in road work under road
rehabilitation projects would increase their off-farm income. The Bank
will continue to support biannual household expenditure surveys which are
providing information to analyze the distributional consequences of various
palicy measures. The survey data will help to design public expenditure
programs which are more sensitive to poverty concerns and the needs of
women, for example, by ensuring that the spatial distribution of recurrent
expenditures in health, education, and agriculture address inequalities in
the availability of public services.
36.         In the area of environment, the Bank is working closely with
the Government to help complete the Environmental Action Plan (EAP). It is
expected that a substantial proportion of the investments and policy and
institutional measures in the EAP will be incorporated into planned
programs in the respective sectors. Direct investments, institutional
strengthening, and policy actions, which do not lend themselves to
integration with other activities, would be included in the design of a
free-standing operation to develop the capacity of the Environmental
Protection Council to provide policy guidance and effective oversight on
environmental issues.
37.         With respect to aid coordination, the Bank would reinforce its
efforts to mobilize ads!quate levels of concessional aid to finance both
adjustment lending (within the framework of the Special Program of
Assistance) and investment activities. Through the vehicle of t4e
Consultative Group meetings, an average of US$760 million in commitments
per annum was mobilized to support the reform effort in Ghana between 1987
and 1990. While the challenge of aid coordination in Ghana was initially
manageable because most aid was funneled through the Bank's adjustment
lending, as donor interest has shifted to sectoral programs, the
institutional weaknesses of the Government are being magnified. The Bank
would, therefore, together with other donors and the Government, help put
measures into place to improve donor coordination and ease the
administrative burden on the Government, for example, by minimizing
duplication in donors' appraisal and supervision activities and taking
advantage of opportunities for cofinancing. The Bank would also help
ensure that donor assistance is guided by the public investment program and
does not undermine the Government's efforts to rationalize public
expenditures.
The Lending Program: Level and Composition
38.         In the past four years, IDA's lending program has been
dominated by adjustment lending, including two Structural Adjustment
Credits and a Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (Table 1). For the three-
year period FY91-93, planned IDA lending is estimated to total about US$830
million, with about five operations annually. In order to continue support
for major policy actions, three adjustment credits are planned early in the
program - the proposed operation, a second financial sector adjustment
credit, and an agricultural sector adjustment credit. This timing is
predicated on commensurate acceleration of policy actions, the maintenance



- 11 -
of appropriate macroeconomic policies, and the expectation that the
Government will improve its implementation capacity. The composition of
the lending program reflects Ghana's evolving needs and the opportunities
for the Bank to maximize its impact. Starting with the proposed Program to
Promote Private Investment and Sustained Development, the focus is shifting
from broadly-based to more focused adjustment operations. These would be
complemented with investment lending to achieve important efficiency gains
and institution-building objectives. The sectoral distribution of project
lending would continue to emphasize the rehabilitation and expansion of
economic infrastructure to support private sector growth, and a greater
focus than in the past on longer term issues, including human resource
development, population and environment. After the current fiscal year,
the share of adjustment lending is expected to drop to about a quarter of
the lending program (FY92-95). The overall allocation and the proportions
of quick-disbursing adjustment lending and investment lending will be kept
under review taking into account macroeconomic performance, particularly
the balance of payments position, performance under ongoing projects, and
the availability and composition of assistance from other donors.
Table 1: Ghana -- Distribution of Lending, FY86-90
(US$ million)
Amount     2         Number of
Proiects
Adjustment Lending                      415.8     39.9           4
Agriculture and rural development       116.4     11.2           4
Population and human resources           99.5      9.6           3
Urban and water supply                  105.6     10.1           3
Transportation                           84.5      8.1           2
Power and telecommunications            113.3     10.9           5
Industry and oil/gas                    85.0       8.2           3
Technical assistance                     21.3      2.0           2
Total     1041.4    100.0          26
39.         IFC has played an important role in the development of the
private sector since the initiation of the reforms, in particular in gold
mining. It has played a catalytic role in mobilizing direct foreign
investment. IFC will continue to support the rehabilitation and expansion
of gold mining, and locally-based firms in the manufacturing and agro-
processing sectors. Support for small and medium scale enterprises would
be provided through the Africa Enterprise Fund (AlF) and the Africa Project
Development Facility. The response of Ghanaian entrepreneurs to the AEF
has been strong. HIGA would be an important partner in helping build
confidence among the business coammunity. Ghana is the first country where
MIGA helped organize a conference to promote direct foreign investment.



l 12 -
Relations with the DMF
40.         Since the inception of the reform program In 1983, the IMP has
maintained a close policy dialogue with the Ghanaian authorities. As of
end-December 1990, Ghana's outstanding use of IMF resources amounted to SDR
524 million. Since 1988, Ghana has received support from the IMF through
the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ISAP) under a three-year
arrangement equivalent to SDR 388.6 million, or 190 percent of quota. The
third year of the arrangement covers the period January-December 1991.
Reflecting the substantial support provided at the start of the reform
program, net transfers from the IMF are expected to be negative after 1991.
For the 1992-95 period, the negative transfer would average US$80 million
per annum. The IMF has provided substantial technical assistance to the
Government, most recently on capital income taxation, systems for public
expenditure control and monitoring, and monetary management. In a process
that has become increasingly collaborative, the Government, jointly with
the IMF and the Bank, has prepared four Policy Framework Papers (PFPs).
The PFP is used to inform donors, through both the local aid coordination
group and the CG, of the Government's future macroeconomic and sectoral
policies and programs.
Summary Assessment
41.         As Ghana begins to build on the economic gains from
stabilization and adjustment to promote self-sustaining growth, a new set
of issues needs to take center stage in its strategy. The first is the
need to tap more effectively than hitherto the resources of the private
sector. The second is the need for the Government to strengthen its
implementation as the adjustment program matures. Finally, the Government
needs to address human resource development, poverty, and environmental
issues, which will ultimately determine the economic and social
sustainability of the program.
PART III - POLICY AGENDA 1991-92
42.         In order to promote higher and more efficient production from
the economy, the Government must ensure the existence of an enabling
environment for private investment. Beginning in 1991, the adjustment
program will emphasize to a greater extent than before measures to
encourage higher levels of private savings and investment. Macroeconomic
stability is key and will be maintained through appropriate exchange rate,
fiscal and monetary policies. Reforms of incentives affecting private
sector decisions on investment and savings will be consolidated in the area
of tax policy and administration. The Government also will make the
regulatory framework more consistent with the liberalized economy. Major
initiatives are required in tax policy and regulatory framework in order to
bring about the desired expansion of investment and its corresponding
Impetus to growth. The Government also will make further progress on state
enterprise reforms. The Government will maintain the momentum of reforms
designed to increase the efficiency with which public resources are used,
including improvements to public expenditure management and civil service
reforms. Measures to alleviate poverty are incorporated in the program.



- 13 -
Policies to Promote Private Investment
43.         Macroeconomic Stability.  Macroeconomic conditions have a
pervasive influence on the private sector through their effects on the
production and investment climate in which private producers operate.
Ghana has made considerable progress in this area but additional efforts
are needed to sustain these improvements and to ensure that inflationary
pressures are brought under control. The Government has set out its
macroeconomic objectives and corresponding policies for the period 1991-93
in a Policy Framework Paper.2/ A table showing the expected trends in
key economic indicators, consistent with the PPP, is attached to the Letter
of Development Policy (Annex II). 31
44.         The Government will ensure macroeconomic stability by
maintaining a free and flexible exchange rate determined by a wholesale
auction and backed by an extended interbank market. It will modify
gradually the present scheme for the surrender of export proceeds to
channel a larger proportion directly through commercial banks (including
development banks) instead of the Bank of Ghana. By June 1991 the
surrendering of export proceeds from goods other than cocoa and gold will
be shifted from the Bank of Ghana to the commercial banks. Fiscal policy
will be designed to increase public savings and to ensure that the public
sector will not crowd out the private sector. The Government intends to
take the actions necessary to restore and maintain positive real interest
rates and to implement monetary policy so as to reduce inflation. Efforts
by the Bank of Ghana to mop up excess liquidity sharply lowered the growth
of money supply in 1990, which is beginning to dampen inflationary
pressures. Taken together, the impact of these actions and the further
strengthening of the banking system would improve investors' confidence and
increase the capacity of lending institutions to provide longer-term
financing. Over this period, any other actions required to maintain
macroeconomic stability would be determained in consultation with the IMF,
as well as the World Bank.
45.         Tax policies and administration.  While tax policies will
continue to address the need for efficient revenue mobilization, the focus
will be on ensuring that the tax regime promotes economic growth through a
more favorable climate for investment. The 1991 budget announced several
major tax initiatives designed to improve the investment climate. The
reform of capital income taxation was the most extensive. The corporate
tax rate was lowered to 35 percent from 45 percent for all sectors, except
trading, finance, and printing (which remain at 50 percent). The dividend
withholding tax was lowered from 30 to 15 percent. Capital gains taxation
was reduced to a maximum of 5 percent and exempted in the case of publicly
traded shares, mergers and acquisitions. The use of capital allowances for
manufacturing firms was extended. On personal income taxation, the top
2I     GHANAs  Policy Framework PaDer, January 1991-December 1993.
31     Since the PFP was finalized in late 1990, the Ghana Statistical
Service has revised national accounts estimates (1987-90) and oil
prices have declined. The President's Report refers to the data
presented in Annex I which takes into account the most recent
information. Future trends as shown in the PFP indicators and the
data in Annex I are broadly consistent.



- 14 a
marginal rate was lowered from 55 percent to 25 percent, while the personal
deduction was raised to a level closer to international norma. Several
major allowances which were previously not taxed have been consolidated
into the tax base.
46.         The Government intends to continue its efforts to rationalize
the system of income taxation. An important part of these efforts will be
to negotiate and complete double taxation agreements with capital exporting
countries. The tax treaties would lower the additional tax burden that
might be levied by the home countriest they would also enhance foreign
investors' confidence in doing business in Ghana. The Government also will
attempt to narrow the current discrepancies in: (a) the tax rates and
allowances across sectors; and (b) the top personal tax rate (25 percent)
and the lowest corporate tax rate (35 percent). Better alignment of the
various taz rates would limit potential abuses in the form of income
shifting across firms and individuals. The aim would be to lower the rate
of corporate tax from the current range of 35-S0 percent to 30-40 percent.
The Government also will consider a further reduction in the tax on
dividends as well as an extension of the carry-over period for losses,
particularly for manufacturing. Indications are that the revenue effect
from the adjustments in company income taxes will not be significant as
receipts from taxes on dividends, capital gains, and manufacturing profits
are small, less than 1 percent of total revenue in 1989. However, the
deterrent effect on new investment is strong. In addition, the changes
would be offset with revenue enhancement measures such as the higher excise
tax on petroleum.
47.         On indirect taxation, the principal sales tax rate was lowered
from 22.5 to 17.5 percent in the 1991 budget. The Government will complete
a comprehensive review of the design options and feasibility for
implementing a value added tax (VAT) and will decide by June 1992 whether
to replace the current sales tax by a VAT. Implementation of a VAT would
contribute to revenue generation. The super sales tax (para. 14) was
significantly revised with a set of new rates ranging from 10 to 100
percent compared to the previous 75 to 500 percent.
48.         The Government will further restructure import duties to
achieve a lower and more uniform level of protection and eliminate special
import taxes in 1992, except for beer, spirits, and tobacco products, which
will have their special import taxes reduced to 10 percent. In addition,
the government will reduce the scope of duty exemptions, and streamline the
duty drawback system to encourage non-traditional exports. To inform
future policies the Government will complete by June 1991 a study on the
effect of trade liberalization on domestic industry, and will establish
procedures and criteria to review rates of duty on particular products.
49.         Upgrading tax administration remains a priority objective of
the NRS. To improve tax administration, the Government will extend the
unique identification number for companies to individual taxpayers by
December 1991. A computerized customs data base (ASYCUDA) has been in
operation and its extension to other indirect taxes is underway. A tax
appeals tribunal has been set up and has been in operation since December
1990. In order to speed up the customs clearance process to agreed
standards two actions will be taken. One, physical inspection of imports,
currently conducted separately by customs, the port authority and security
personnel would be combined into a single stage. Also processing of
documents would be allowed to start before the arrival of goods in order to
alleviate congestion and delays. As tax administration improves, the



- 1S -
authorities would reduce the requirements for tax clearance certificates
which now add to the cost of doing business in Ghana. In early 1991 the
Government streamlined the use of tax clearance certificates by deleting
the requirement on nine categories of transactions.
50.         Regulators Framework.  Although Ghana has deregulated the
economy in several areas, it has not progressed to the extent warranted by
the increasing importance of market forces under the Economic Recovery
Program. Remaining problems, as outlined in the joint IDA/Gov-rrment of
Ghana report, Towards a Dynamic Investment Resnonse, relate to business
establishment and investment licensing procedures, expatriate quotas,
technology transfer, foreign exchange transactions, labor laws and
regulations, customs and tax administration, the approval process under the
Investment Code, and foreign investment regulations. Collectively, these
regulations sustain an image of Ghana as a country with excessive
government intervention in private business. The aim of reforms over the
next two years would be to shift from regulation through direct controls to
regulation and protection of consumer Interests through the discipline of
the market and competition.
51.         Several laws, most of which were enacted prior to the ERP and
run counter to the spirit of revived support for investors, would be
reviewed and then amended or repealed. These include the Exchange Control
Act, the Industrial Relations Act, the Labor Decree, the Manufacturing
Industries Act and the Investment Code. Although some provisions of these
laws are no longer enforced, changes in the laws are necessary in order to
establish a transparent and unambiguous legal framework. Revisions in the
law will be guided generally by the need to reduce delays in the investment
approval process and the number of Government agencies involved. To open
up the process of change and to bring in the expertise available in the
private sector, as well as to benefit from an understanding of the concerns
of the private sector, the Government has appointed an advisory group to
provide guidance and review changes in the various laws and regulations.
The members of the group are from a wide spectrum of the private sector and
legal profession. The government also has established a technical support
team (with members from various public agencies) to review and prepare
draft proposals for amending or repealing existing laws. The terms of
reference and implementation schedule for revising the legal framework have
been finalized.
52.         The revised Exchange Control Act will incorporate simplified
procedures for foreign exchange transactions and a primary role for
commercial banks in the routine handling of foreign exchange transactions.
In the case of the Labor Decree, consideration will be given to providing
more flexibility for businesses regarding the formal requirement to use
public employment centers when hiring employees. The experience of several
developing countries indicates that fiscal incentives are unimportant in
attracting investment. What is important is the general level of taxation
on companies (para. 46) and a positive, stable enabling environment. An
important objective of the revision of the Investment Code would be to
consider the elimination of most fiscal incentives, thereby permitting
lower overall company taxes, and removing the need for economic approval by
GIC of investments. Any remaining fiscal incentives would be incorporated
into the tax and tariff codes and granted automatically to all investors on
the basis of documentary evidence. Regarding technology transfer, the
Government would revise the guidelines to make them clear, listing standard
clauses to be included and restrictive clauses which would not be
acceptable. The revised guidelines are expected to be issued to the public



- 16 -
no later than mid-1992, and would make clear that the choice of technology
is left to the entrepreneurs and that Government agencies are not to be
involved in assessing the technical know-how to be imported.
53.         In addition, preparations are underway to consolidate the
existing application forms for business registration and, in the case of
small businesses, to simplify it. Better exchange of information between
Government agencies as well as the liberalized economy is expected to lead
to the elimination of remaining licensing requirements of the Ministry of
Science, Industry, and Technology and the Ghana Investment Center shortly.
The need for prior GIC approval to remit interest, dividends and technical
fees will be abolished. Payments associated with technology transfer
agreements no longer require prior approval from the Bank of Ghana.
Immigration procedures for expatriate technical and managerial personnel
will use eased and made more automatic. Implementation of the previous
Government decision to decontrol all but a few prices will be strengthened.
The measures outlined above will be important to encourage a more dynamic
investment response from both domestic and foreign investors. The
Government will also take steps to improve the timeliness and accessibility
of important economic information such as price data, output trends, and
other statistics in order to provide the information businesses need to
operate in a market economy. The Economic Management Support Project is
assisting the Ghana Statistical Service in this area.
54.         State-Owned Enterorise Reforms.  Critical elements of the
program will continue to be measures to increase the efficiency of state
enterprises producing public goods and services and to promote a
progressive disengagement of the Government from the production of goods
and services which can be provided more efficiently by the private sector.
In addition, state enterprises need to contribute more to the efforts to
increase public savings. The objective is that sufficient savings should
be generated to cover operating costs, service debt, and finance an
increasing share of investment.
55.         One tool which the Government will continue to use is
preparation of annual corporate plans and performance agreements for 13
priority state enterprises. Performance agreements based on corporate
plans will be signed by all relevant parties by May 1 of each year. A
prerequisite for this effort is timely availability of audited statements
for these enterprises (i.e., no later than nine months after the end of the
respective financial year). Review of the performance agreements is
expected to highlight critical factors which may adversely affect
performance, such as constraints posed by the mechanism for adjusting
tariffs, which would need to be addressed by the Government. Other issues
could include the autonomy of enterprises in pricing, staffing, and
procurement, and any cross-debts among enterprises and between the
enterprise and the Government. The performance agreements will include
further cost savings measures, retrenchment of excess staff, and
consideration of contracting out services to the private sector. The State
Enterprise Commission (SEC) will monitor and evaluate implementation of
these agreements on a semi-annual basis. The evaluation report will be
submitted to the SOB Boards of Directors, the relevant sector ministries,
and MFEP. Summaries of the financial accounts of the 13 priority
enterprises will also be published more widely.
56.         In addition, the SEC would continue to undertake work to
identify complementary actions to improve the policy and legal framework
for state enterprises and to improve their efficiency. This would include



- 17 -
the completion of an exercise to classify all state enterprises. The
guidelines designed to ensure financial discipline in the relations between
the Government and state-owned enterprises will continue to be enforced
57.         The Government intends to broaden and to accelerate the
program to divest state enterprises by focusing on larger, more profitable
enterprises and others which are attractive to private investors. A work
program for divestiture has been agreed with IDA for 1991, focusing on key
steps which need to be undertaken by the Government. The critical actions
include preparation of a list of state enterprises to be divested, updating
financial statements, valuation, preparation of company dossiers,
advertising and identifying investors, evaluation of investors' proposals,
negotiations with selected investors, approval of divestiture by DIC and
conclusion of transaction. The work program is sufficiently large
(covering about 40 enterptises) to allow the Government some flexibility in
reaching agreements on the sale of particular enterprises, while at the
same time ensuring meaningful progress. Implementation will be closely
monitored by the Government and IDA. Agreement on the 1992 divestment
program will be reached between IDA and the Government no later than the
end of March 1992. New avenues for divestiture will be explored, including
public share issues, buy-outs by management and employees, management
contracts, and debt-equity swaps. The implementation of complementary
Government measures to improve the enabling environment for private
investment is a prerequisite to achieving significant progress. Actions to
develop capital markets - for example, the recent establishment of a stock
exchange - would also make a positive contribution. For all state
enterprises, regardless of whether they are slated for divestiture or
covered by corporate plans, the Government will encourage their operation
on commercial principles by avoiding resource transfers from the budget as
well as loan guarantees.
Public Resource Management
58.          Other actions related to the public sector would contribute
to the creation of an enabling environment for private investment.
Measures to improve the efficiency of the public sector would enable the
Government to be more effective in improving economic and social
infrastructure. This is necessary in order to lower the costs of doing
business in Ghana which are high, in part because of still inadequate
infrastructure and poor services such as teleconmmunications. Efforts also
would be made to improve information flows to tho private sector and to
increase the accountability and transparency of Government operations by
publishing data more widely on the budget and central government accounts.
59.         Public Zxpenditure Management. Preparation of a rolling 3-
year Public Investment Program in consultation with IDA will continue to be
an important component of the adjustment program. More attention will be
given to the recurrent cost implications of the investment program by
improving information and better integrating hearings on the development
and recurrent budgets. Public investment will continue to emphasize
improvements in economlc and social infrastructure. To guide the
preparation of the expenditure program, the Government will continue to
update the macroeconomic framework at least twice a year.
60.         Emphasis will be given to improving budgetary procedures and
strengthening expenditure monitoring and control and implementation. To
streamline the preparation of the budget, the budget circular will include
indicative sectoral ceilings for recurrent and capital expenditures. By



- 18 -
1992, the Government will expand the budget presentation from the current
*narrow' basis (excludes external project financing) to a *broad' basis
(includes external project financing). The budget will also Integrate the
development budget more completely. Both of these objectives will be
facilitated by improvements in the computerized budget information system
in the NPEP, to be supported under the Economic Management Support project.
Sector ministries will include In the public investment program (PIP)
submission a summary project and financing table to ensure that they make
the critical intra-sectoral trade-offs within the allocated ceilings. As
part of the efforts to increase the transparency of Government operations
and the flow of information on the economy, the Government has begun to
publish the budget in summary format in a document made widely available to
the public and is speeding up the publication of the complete budget and
investment program.
61.         In order to strengthen expenditure monitoring and control, the
Government will implement a commitments-based monitoring system. This
would enable MPEP to project the timing and cost of contractual claims on
the budget and to ensure that new contracts are not signed if they would
surpass budgetary allocations and that domestic arrears do not build up.
Management of the recurrent budget is hindered by the lack of detailed data
an actual expenditures. The efforts of the Expenditure Monitoring Unit
(EMU) in NFEP to collect and analyze this information will be strengthened,
supplemented by improvements in the timeliness and format of the
information supplied by the Office of the Controller-Accountant General.
In order to monitor implementation of the public expenditure program,
reports on actual expenditure will be prepared twice a year - one covering
the first six months (no later than September) and the other the full year
(by March).
62.         As part oi its efforts to improve implementation capacity and
to increase the pace of project execution, including the drawdown of donor
funds, the Government intends to tackle bottlenecks. Approval of contracts
is centralized at the Public Agreements Board (PAB) which has caused
lengthy delays. As a first step, the Government has decided that the PAB
will meet more frequently. Technical support is also being provided in
order to help speed up its review. In addition, a review is being
undertaken of implementation procedures and approval processes for publ.c
procurement and supply of materials. It is being financed by a Special
Project Preparation Facility (SPPF), provided by IDA and would be completed
by the end of 1991. The study would identify actions to improve
implementation procedures and procurement in order to reduce delays.
63.         Poverty Alleviation.  Since the inception of the UP, the
Government has been concerned about (i) minimizing any adverse impacts of
the adjustment process on poor and disadvantaged members of society and
(ii) ensuring that the gains from adjustment and growth are equitably
distributed, and used to improve the well being of the poor. Public
expenditures will play a key role in influencing and encouraging economic
activities and social investments that benefit disadvantaged Ghanaians.
The Government intends to extend and expand the information on the poverty
characteristics of the nation, disaggregated by region. There are various
exercises underway in the Ministry of Pinance and Economic Planning, based
on information generated by the Ghana Statistical Service through annual
household expenditure surveys (the Ghana Living Standards Survey or GLSS),
and in the Ministry of Local Government. Initially the focus will be on
the regional composition of expenditures. A comparison of poverty
characteristics by region with the flow of public expenditures to regions



- 19 v
would guide actions to influence the composition of expenditures in the
budget. Another dimension along which the poverty focus will be monitored
and Improved will be that of program categories. Ongoing efforts -- which
have achieved some success -- to improve the provisions for basic education
and primary health care will be continued. Programs to improve health and
education services will not only have a direct impact on the standard of
living of the poor, but also will increase their productivity. In
addition, there will be an emphasis on agricultural extension services.
64.         The regional and programmatic composition of the 1991 budget
is being analyzed, as well as the expenditures returns for 1989 and 1IWO,
by a working group in MPEP. The analysis would be used as an input to
formulate guidelines for the 1992 budget. In September-October 1991, the
guidelines would be applied to assess budget submissions and determine
allocations. An evaluation of the process would be undertaken as part of
the Public Expenditure Review in late 1991. On the basis of the review,
the strategy for the following year would be decided in early 1992.
65.         Civil Service Reform.  Improving the effectiveness of the
civil service remains an important objective. The ongoing reform aims at
reducing overstaffing, raising remuneration, increasing salary
differentials, and modifying the pay and grading framework to establish a
better basis for a performance-oriented civil service. Current efforts,
'Sased on job inspections and functional reviews, will be continued to trim
excess employment. The Government intends to retrench at least 12,000
employees (from the civil service, Ghana Education Service, and statutory
agencies) in 1991 and will set appropriate objectives for 1992. More
rigorous controls on manpower levels have been established to prevent new
recruitments in overstaffed occupational categories. Based on decisions
made by the Committee of Secretaries in May 1990, the Management Services
Division (lMSD) and the Personnel Policy and Management Division (PPND) of
the Office of the Read of the Civil Service (OHCS) have conducted manpower
hearings. The hearings resulted in more accurate staff lists and in
manpower targets for the end of 1990 which are the basis for the 1991
budget estimates.  The Government has set a year-end emloyment target for
the civil service for end-1991 of 107,000, compared to the actual level at
the end of 1990 of 109,500. This target is well within documented
overstaffing levels of 15-20 percent and is consistent with the need to
recruit for critical skills. Achievement of the target will be monitored
on a monthly basis by PPMD. Quarterly manpower hearings will be held with
any organizations which fail to achieve meaningful progress towards the
year-end target. The Government also will set a target level of civil
service employment to be reached by the end of 1992. The introduction of a
unique staff number in the payroll system in early 1991 will facilitate
better control over staffing levels.
66.         The salary adjustment announced in the 1991 budget continued
progress to increase pay relativities by raising the ratio between the
lowest and highest paid from 6.7:l to 9.1:1 on an after-tax basis, and from
9.4:1 to 10.1s1 gross of taxes. Target relativities will be revised for
1992 when a simpler grading structure is introduced. The new grade
structure will: (i) improve equity by removing anomalies existing in the
current system (1i) better relate pay to skill levels; (iii) establish a
unified cadre of managers with special pay and career provisions; (iv)
reduce the number of occupational groupings and thus simplify managewrnt
and improve mobility; and (v) provide a better foundation for career
development generally. Fully costed proposals for grading at senior levels
have been prepared. Job evaluations of junior posts were completed in



- 20 -
early 1991, and fully costed proposals for grading of junior posts would be
ready by mid-1991. A detailed implementation program has been prepared,
with a view to introducing the new grading structure at the start of 1992.
By mid-1991, building on the new performance appraisal process introduced
at the beginning of 1991, the Prices and Incomes Board (PIB) will prepare a
proposal for the introduction of performance-related pay for implementation
in 1992.
67.         Efforts underway to strengthen civil service management will
continue. The Management Services Division (MSD) of the Office of the Read
of the Civil Service (OICS) will play an essential role in bringing about
efficiency Improvements. In addition to ongoing job inspections, it will
put increasing emphasis on management reviews, with a view to streamlining
organixations and reducing duplication of functions. The possibility of
contracting out some services now provided by the public sector will be
explored. The capacity to manage staff will be considerably enhanced by
the development of an integrated personnellpayroll management information
system. The Overseas Development Administration (ODA) of the United
Kingdom is funding consultancy services to undertake a users requirement
study and to develop and implement the system.  IDA will cover other costs
(i.e. hardware and software) under the MEM project. Work will commence in
mid-1991 on the users requirement study with a view to installation of the
system by the end of 1992.
68.         Economic Benefits.  The main macroeconomic objectives of the
Government's program laid out in the most recent Policy Framework Paper
(PFP) are the following: (a) to achieve an average annual rate of real GDP
growth of about 5 percent; (b) to reduce the average annual inflation rate
from 37 percent in 1990 to 20 percent in 1991 and to 8 percent by 1992; and
(c) to continue to generate sizeable overall balance uf payments surpluses
averaging about US$100 million a year.
69.         The Government is concerned with the acceleration In inflation
in late 1989 and the first half of 1990 and has taken measures to lower
price pressures. Steps are being taken to eliminate the excess liquidity
in the banking system by expanding open market operations. In addition,
the IMF is assisting the Government to improve the effectiveness of
monetary policy. These began to have a positive effect in late 1990 and
early 1991. Some of the actions to be supported under this adjustment
credit vould contribute to these efforts. Improvements in tax
administration would help to increase public savings. Further improvements
in the operation of the banking system supported under the proposed
Financial Sector Adjustment Credits would also help to strengthen the
implementation of monetary policy. The Government also intends to put in
place a flexible pricing mechanism for petroleum during 1991.
70.         The need for private sector efforts to assume the dominant
share In both investment and savings is crucial for the achievement of the
growth targets. Total investment is expected to rise from an estimated 16
percent in 1990 to about 22 percent by 1995. Most of this growth would
need to come from the private sector because public investment ti not
expected to expand as sharply as it did in the early years of the program.
The pace at which the composition of investment between public and private
shifts will depend on whether the reforms supported by this credit increase
investor confidence and create new investment opportunities for the private
sector to the extent required to sustain an annual average real growth in
private investment of 15 percent over the period.



- 21 -
71.         Sources of savings are projected to undergo a simllar
structural change. In 1990 the external current account deficit grew as a
share of GDP because of the decline in international cocoa prices and
increases in oil prices. Only modest improvement is expected in 1991. The
external shock of lower cocoa prices and higher oil prices has meant that
the speed with which domestic savings would replace foreign savings has
been slowed. However, while official external financing will continue to
play a significant role in financing investment, its importance will
diminish as improved public resource management and financial sector
reforms contribute to higher public and private savings. With regard to
public savings, tax revenues should rise as a share of GDP as improved
administration, a broader tax base, and better compliance will more than
compensate for the Government's strategy to reduce direct and indirect tax
rates. The major increase in the excise tax on petroleum in late 1990 has
significantly improved revenue mobilization. Coupled with continued
restraint on recurrent expenditures, revenue growth would be sufficient to
raise current savings of the central government from less than 2 percent of
CDP in 1990 to 6.0 percent in 1995. Private savings, which grew strongly
in 1989, but stagnated in 1990, are expected to regain momentum in response
to the restoration of positive interest rates, financial sector reforms,
lower direct and indirect tax rates, and increased investment
opportunities, rising to about 11 percent of GDP by 1995.
72.         Assuming that private savings and investment reach these
levels, real GDP growth should average at least 5 percent per year, leading
to an increase in per capita income of about 2 percent a year. A
substantial proportion of the growth in the economy is expected to come
from expansion in industry; its contribution to GDP is projected to grow
from 14 percent in 1989 to 18 percent In 1995. Mining is expected to grow
dramatically, especially gold production, which could reach twice its
current level by 1995. The rate of expansion of manufacturing will be
increasingly sensitive to levels of private investment. Growth of
agriculture for the next decade is likely to be higher on average than in
the past. Cocoa should continue to respond favorably to reductions in
implicit taxation and slightly higher international prices, but at lower
rates than during the initial period of reform. Production of food and
industrial crops is expected to be brighter. Better research and
extension, increased availability of credit and fertilizer, and improved
infrastructure should lower production and marketing costs and improve
financial rewards to farming. In services, transportation will continue to
benefit from better roads and increased economic activity, the
rehabilitation of the railways would permit higher haulage, and the
recently completed port rehabilitation would support greater shipping
activity. The financial sector would improve its growth prospects
substantially as a result of the adjustment program and better resource
mobilization. Retail and wholesale trade is expected to grow in line with
the rest of the economy.
PART IV. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Credit History
73.         Preparation of the proposed Credit comenced after the
successful second and third tranche reviews for the second Structural
Adjustment Credit in July 1990. Appraisal was carried out in November 1990



- 22 -
and negotiations were held in March 1991. Dr. J.L.S. Abbey, Ghana's
Ambassador to the United States, led the Ghanaian team.
External Financing Reauirements
74.         Strict management of aggregate demand and a market-determiaed
exchange rate will contribute towards maintaining a manageable external
payments position in the face of the decline in the terms of trade and only
marginal recovery expected after 1990. The current account deficit is
expected to decline from 7 percent in 1990-91 to about 5 percent in 1995.
The average growth in exports of goods and non-factor services will slip
from 10 percent in 1985-90 to about 6 percent in 1990-95, mainly because of
the expected response to low cocoa and gold prices. On the other hand,
non-traditional products, particularly pineapple, coffee, furniture, and
fishery products, are projected to grow strongly in the 19908. Imports are
expected to grow at about the same rate as GDP. This assumes continued
foreign exchange savings through greater efficiency brought about by
higher prices and taxes on petroleum products, and import substitution of
food and other consumer goods as a result of increased agricultural
production and manufacturing investment.
75.         The average current account deficit over 1991-92 is projected
to be about 14 percent higher than the average level of the last two years.
Some of the deterioration in the current account will be offset by lower
r-quirements for foreign exchange for some elements in the capital account.
Amortization of official medium-term debt has shrunk as non-concessional
debt incurred to finance oil imports has been replaced by concessional
sources; repurchases from the IMF will diminish now that the Stand-By and
Extended Arrangements have been replaced by the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility; and the Government has paid off all external arrears.
As a result, total foreign exchange requirements for the period 1991-92
will on average be only 2 percent higher than in 1989-90. Requirements
include provision for a build-up in international reserves.
76.         In view of the existing pipeline of concessional assistance
and anticipated new commitments, disbursements of official grants and long-
term loans from both bilateral and multilateral sources are expected to
average about US$580 million a year during 1991-92, inclusive of resources
mobilized through the Special Program of Assistance. Over 60 percent of
the drawings of official grants and long-term loans is expected to come
from commitments made as of end-December 1990. A slow, but steady, decline
in the real level of concessional commitments is projected.  IDA
disbursements vould amount to about US$390 million during 1991-92.
77.         In 1990 total external public debt is estimated at US$3.1
billion, equivalent to 53 percent of GDP, after taking into accougt the
cancellation of outstanding bilateral debt by the United Xingdom, Canada,
Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States.
With declining repurchase obligations to the IMP and lower levels of
commercial debt, the debt service ratio fell from 67 percent in 1988 to 39
percent in 1990. A further decline in the debt service ratio to 21 percent
is expected by 1995. In addition, the share of debt outstanding and
disbursed from csmiercial sources is expected to decline from 7 percent in
1989 (already down from 12 percent in 1987) to 2 percent in 1995, and that
from non-concessional bilateral and multilateral sources from 14 percent to
10 percent.



_ 23 -
Credit Administration, Procurement and Disbursement
78.         It is proposed to support the Government's efforts to promote
private investment and sustained development with a fourth adjustment
credit of US$120 million. The Bank of Ghana (BOG) vould administer the
Credit on behalf of the Government and disburse the funds through the
weekly foreign ezchange auction. BOG would t (a) maintain separate
accounts to record disbursements and repayments: and (b) arrange for an
audit of such accounts by auditors acceptable to IDA, and submit certified
copies of the relevant audited accounts to IDA within six months after the
end of each fiscal year. The auditors report would include an opinion on
whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at BOG regarding the use
of statements of expenditure.
79.         The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used exclusively
to finance the foreign exchange cost of eligible imports through the
foreign exchange auction in the BOG. Except for military equipment, luxury
goods and environmentally hazardous products, any imports would be eligible
for financing. Up to US$24 million could be financed retroactively for
imports paid for up to four months prior to loan signing. Imports
exceeding US$2 million by the public and private sectors could be subject
to simplified ICB procedures using standard documents acceptable to ID.
Tc speed up disbursements, imports below US$2 million by private entities
and parastatals would be procured in accordance with established commercial
practices and whenever possible quotations from at least two eligible
countries would be sought. Current commercial practices of the private
sector are acceptable to IDA. Imports by the government sector below US$2
aillion vould be procured according to its procedures which have been
reviewed and are acceptable to IDA. These usually include seeking three
quotations. Direct contracting could be used for proprietary stores or
where compatibility with existing equipment requires use of standardized
equipment.  International suppliers are well represented in Ghana; this,
together with the ongoing auction system and trade liberalization, should
ensure an internationally competitive market in which Importers can be
relied on to procure their goods and services from the least costly and
most reliable sources. Preshipment inspection oan quality, quantity and
price verification of imports will be done by an external independent
agency already In place. Contracts valued less than $10,000 equivalent
would not be eligible for IDA financing.
80.         To facilitate procurement and disbursement, an amount
equivalent to US$30 million of the IDA credit will be deposited initially
in a special account. Applications for replenishment of the special
account will be submitted monthly, or when withdrawals equal one-sixth of
the amount advanced. Applications will be fully documented with respect to
payments against contracts of more than US$1 million equivalent.
Reimbursements for payments against contracts below US$1 million will be
made on the basis of statements of expeaditure certified by the BOG. All
supporting documents (final invoice, bill of lading/shipping documents, and
evidence of payment) will be retained by Bank of Ghana for review by
visiting supervision missions and the external auditors. Annual audit
reports will include a separate audit of amounts withdrawn on the basis of
statements of expenditure and on the special account.



- 24 -
81.         The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed in two
tranches as follows:
(a) a first tranche of US$60 million would become available
immediately upon effectiveness (July 1991); and
(b) a second tranche of US$60 million would be made available
following a mid-term review of performance to determine the
satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program (March
1992).
Monitorina and Tranche Release Conditions
82.         The Letter of Development Policy (Annex II) describes the
specific measures that have been or will be taken during this phase of the
adjustment program. These measures are summarized In the matrix of policy
actions, also shown in Annex II. A second tranche review would take place
roughly 8 months after release of the first tranche. Release of the second
tranche will depend upon overall satisfactory progress of the adjustment
program and the completion of the following actions in a manner
satisfactory to the Associations
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
(i)  Changes in the tax structure have been introduced and are
reflected in the 1992 budget.
(ii) Progress has been made in the revision of the legal and
regulatory framework governing private sector activities,
including the Investment Code, the fEchange Control Act,
the Manufacturing Industries Act, the Industrial
Relations Act, and the Labor Decree.
(tit)   Agreement with IDA on the 1992 allocation for recurrent
expenditure and the 1992-94 public investment program.
(iv)   Implementation of measures to revise contract approval
procedures, including the role of Public Agreements
Board.
(v)   Progress in the implementation of the 1992 program of pay
reform for the Civil Service, including a revised
grading structure.
(vi)   Satisfactory progress on implementation of the integrated
personnelipayroll management system.
(vii)   Satisfactory completion of the 1991 divestment program
and agreement on the 1992 divestment program.
(viii)   1992 performance agreements for 13 priority state-owned
enterprises finalized.



- 25 -
83.         The Government will submit to the Association a report
evaluating the progress made in implementing the adjustment program
starting from the date of credit approval, which will provide the basis for
the mid-term review of the program scheduled for March 1992 and the release
of the second tranche. The Association has the option to cancel all or
part of the second tranche if the conditions for its release have not been
fulfilled within 90 days after the mid-term review. The Government would
submit to the Association a final report on the implementation of the
adjustment program within six months of the full disbursement of the
cred.t.
Risks
84.         Two principal risks could threaten the achievement of the
program's objectives: inadequate response of private investment and
insufficient implementation capacity within the Government. Inadequate
private investment to achieve the growth targets could become a problem in
the future. Liquidity constraints, infrastructure bottlenecks, residual
policy impediments and continued uncertainty over the Government's view of
the role of the private sector in the economy could cause inveators to
remain reluctant to invest in Ghana. The Government is addressing these
issues by maintaining macroeconomic stability, reforming the tax system,
creating a legal and regulatory framework more conducive to private
investment, improving the provision of public services, and taking other
related actions which would demonstrate the Government's desire for an
active role by the private sector. Further steps also will be taken to
strengthen the financial system. To minimize this risk the Government's
commitment must be unambiguous and appropriate macroeconomic policies
maintained. In order to give a strong positive signal to the private
sector, the Government took several measures up-front. The 1991 budget
announced a major reduction in taxes on corporate profits. In addition,
many requirements for tax clearance certificates have been reduced and a
private sector advisory group has been established. Nevertheless, it is
difficult to predict when these actions would bring results.
85.         Another possible constraint to the pace of economic adjustment
is the still weak implementation capacity of the Government. Related to
that is the increasing demands of a market economy - the need for timely
information on Government policies and programs and economic trends and
continued improvements in infrastructure and basic services. Recruitment
of skilled staff into the public service has improved, but there are still
shortages. Several programs are in place to minimize this risk. The
Economic Management Support Project will support several measures to
strengthen public sector management, particularly in the area of budget
preparation and execution and civil service reform. Training programs are
geared to reducing dependence on external technical assistance. The
Government intends to streamline contract approval procedures in order to
reduce delays in project implementation. Technical assistance is also
being provided to support state enterprise reforms through the Public
Enterprise Project.



- 26
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
866         I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recouiend that
the Executiv* Directors approve the proposed Development Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
April 5, 1991
Attachments



-27-                                      AnI
GHANA: KEY ECONOMIC INCATORS
Aca                        L M_P            d
198S   1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  199S
GDP Gwowth Rate                          5.1%   5.2%   4.8%   3.6%   5.1%  :3.0%~t. 
..,~ ~ ~ ~ ..
Debt S-ere (US$ mn) d                     415    388    560    643    317
Debt Servio/XGS        dI                61.5%  48.3%  61.8%  67.0%  58.3%39%I    P ~4                 ,.*p7
Debt Senice/GDP                          6.5%   8.0%  12.2%  124%   9.8% 
Gross InvstPni/ODP                        19.6%   9.4%  10.4%  11.3%  13.6%    s     I.8%2 %   1 I  .4 
Domesti Savin/GDP                         6.6%   5.8%   4.3%   5.5%   6.2%   6.74#               ' 
National SavingulGDP                     5.4%   5.1%   5.9%   6.3%   7.8%   8.2%          #4         %        *;i.
Margina National Savipps Rate            39.2%   2.0%   4.0%  13.0%  69.0% -17.0%~W~~~~H~4I
Public     P _vstmetDP   1/ 4.2%   7.3%   7.9%   8.0%   7.9%  71.4%
Public Savigs/GDP                        0.1%   1.7%   2.9%   2.7%   2.5%   137%
Private InvestmentDP f/                  SA%   2.1%   25%   3.3%   5.7% -    s4% *
Private SavYingsIGDP                     S.3%   3.4%   3.0%   3.7%   5.4%   6 .54
Ratio of Publi/Prvate Inveasn_t          0.78   3.48   3.16   2.42   1.39   0.8
Govermnent Rexeniure DP                  15.4%  19.2%  19.1%  18.9%  13.1%  180%
Governmnut RxpeniureslGDP                11.A%  13.2%  14.1%  13.9%  13.6%      0*:%    zS
Overall DeficiIGDP gI                   -3.8%  -3.8%  -3.1%  -3.7%  -3.1%  -4A4%~'
Domestic Financing                        1.2%   1.0%  -0.4%  -0.6%  -1.1%  -1.4%         & *
Export Growth Rate                      22.0%  12.4%   9.8%   6.6%  12.7%  6:3%:
ExportsGD?                               10.7%  16.6%  19.7%  18.4%  16.9%  10                            ~~\~
linport Growth Rate                      8.9%  16.6%  19.8%  -0.4%   2.2%   SAS4                 '~   ~S  
ImportsGDP                              -13.6% -20.1% -26.1% -24.1% -24.4% -25.1%
Current Account (US$ reI)                -264   -204   -224   -252   -305   -450
Current AccountlGDP                      4.42%  -4.2%  -4.9%  -4.9%  -5.8%  -7.6%                          #4O
NOTE: Figuresre rounded. Dafta differ fiom PFP IntdicatorsI Annex II bcoams of Govenment revwiss n natonal accounts
and a downward reviswioIn oil priceasopd subsequen to PPP negotlatos in late 1990.
a/ ODY - GDP adjuste for chage in do tems of trade
b/ Assumed popuation growth (U.N. estmate) differ slihty frma Goverment offiia estimates
el nwhudes IMP and arrar paymtents, but exicludes privte debt
dI Expots of goods and  vies.
i/Includes foreign bad and net lending.
f Staff estimas.
gI inlud  etrad asance; grants ae a financing _tm
SOURCE: Governmet of Ghm and World Rak Staff esZtim
AP4CO: IS-Apr-91



-U-                                            hANNJO
16NA:           RI ,ACCE                                    P4V2U1S
~~                                                           hgof  2Sof 5S
Atdsl                  PL EL _
1984 11985 1986 1987 1988  1989 1990 1991 19    19     1994 1995   2000
A. Exports of Goods and NPS       605   672   797   906  9%I       8     47~ ~~
1. Merchandises (fob)          567   633   749   827   878    83 81~~                                4 
Of W1ich: Coca.            382   412   S3   495   461    4l    355 jj
2. Nonw-Factor Receipts         38    39    48    79    83      83    76   ~                 
B. Imorts of Goods and NFS       -81t  -78  -98 -1202 -1255  -1278  1  l
1. Maerdi   (ci)              -l  -729  -    -128 -1064  -1094 -  ( 
Of wbiclu Petroleum       -161  -200  -125  -144  -148   -160  -210' 
2. Non-Factor Payments         -129  -129  -163  -174  -171   -184  -215
D. Resor  Bal    c               -206  -185  -171  -296  -294   -39 51      
E. Not Factor Paymnts            -81  -111  -106  -129  -131    11I     1
1. Interet  Payments           -79  -108  -102  -122  -126   -109-17           ~A4
F. Net Private Transfs             73    33    73   202   172    202   202
G. crent Accont Balance          -214  -263  -204  -224  -252   -305  -450 
H. Extern  Capital dflow          19    137   179   362   377    431   SD29.. 
1. Grants (Net)                 103    83   118   t22   195       2      
2. Publc Foreign Borrowingp    172    26   123   218   180   1747   25S3 "         ~                      ~
- IMLT (Net)                  173    34   134   230   19     158   256 
* Gros Infows (LT&MT)  288   281   385   413   402    335   392
* Awmortizaio  (LT&MT)  -116  -2S5  -262  -195  -22    -188  -139           ~      $                  
3. Direc Foreip INvestmnt        2      8     4     5     5      15    15is4                             
4. Other Capial (Net)          -81    20   -66    18   -3       48    42                        _ 
L Errrs &Omissions                 S5    10  -33    10      4      2      6.. 
3. Ovemfi Balance                  37  -116   -0    138   125    128    8                                 '
K. Fbmina g,u of which:           -37   116    57  -138  425   -In   -85                 g *. *~~
1. Not Use of BeP Resources    214   122    16  -25   -45        4   -48
2. Changes in WR Holdings        2      0    16  -12    13             0                 
3. Change inGrossReswrve        -35     9    15  -50   -18    -3 -20 D.,
4. Payment~ Arreas             -20    -57    -4   -72   -35           4 -7 
S. Othr                        -10    41    13   20  -40    -32 
hs of GDP (current US$                                         (n pece)
1. Resource Balance              -2.7  -2.9  -3.0  -6.1  -5.7   -7.5  -9.1
2. Total Iboredt Payments        -1.1  -1.7  -1.8  -2.5  -2.4   -2.1  -1.8  4                  
3. Current Account Balance       -2.8  -4.2  -3.6  -4.6  -4.9   -5.8  -7.6    ~4 .              4    ~$~
4. LT Capital Inflow              1.6   2.0   4.5   6.3   5.8    5.8   5.3   $'~A                      
5. Not Credit fiomthe lMF         2.8   1.9   0.3  -0.5  -0.9    0.1  -0.8  d 
1. Iatocs' Reavs (US8$ Min) a/    132   145   149   194   201    269   290__. 
2. GaRoss en= in Mouths Impost    2.3   2.4   2.2   2.3   2.2    3.0   2.7
1. NoululOffida RawS(amS          36    54    89   154  202    270   330        -     -     -     -     -       -
.1?tdsdun    adaes 'a3s wlutm dr I hina Insluds stn%
9DU= uk 3*tohMmand Woelod Rn afelas Iiemtalsfis    and neetnal m.iiatsfn
AIdOO-12-Anm4U



- 29-                                    am  I
QHM, EB C               FIANIGN          M    AVAUTJ                    Pp3 dS
aD8io of U.S. do11")
Actu     x    M   .&         .            Jc
FINANCING ITE3M                 1987   1988  1989  1990    1991   1992   1999   1994   1995
FINACIN NED
E. Od   91abt                    -       2       4



-30-                                      AEIN
STATU8 OP BANlK OU OP1ON8I MAM
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDM&C ED
(As ofDecmbr 3l, 1990)
AMOwit n US$ Mio
Loa or                                                                          ecmlso
Niumbi                              ______                                     IRok  A iltbnd
10 loan and 31 cat fully disbured                                 189.72
of which SAIand Prram    Loans [ a
Cr. 1393         83      Ghana     Rooen mpo                                   40.00          0.00
P-O90           84      Ghana     EXPOlt     .                                35.89          0.00
Cr. 1435         84      Ghba      Export Rels.                                40.10          0.00
Cr. 1573         85      Ohm       Roe    mport                                60.00          0.00
A-0030          86      ohm       Rocss. lmport                              26.97         0.00
Cr. 1777         87       h*na     SAC l                                       34.00          0.00
A-50          87      Ohm       SAC I                                       81.00         0.00
A-0130          86     Ohm        Indurial Sectot. AdjuL                      2S.00         0.00
A-Ml5           88     Ghana      SAC I                                       15.00         0.00
Cr. 1911-1       89      Ghana     Fnania Secr Adjw.                            6.60          0.00
Cr. 200S-1       90      Gha       SAC H                                        5.70          0.00
Sub-Tot3l NM2                                                                               M
Cr. 1342         83      Ghana     Water Sply TA                               13.00          0.32
Cr. 1373         83      Ohm       Ener Poject                                 11.00          4.59
Cr. 1498         84      Ghana     Second 0i Pam                               25.00         10.34
Cr. I564         85      Ghana      Acrn nDitret Rehab.                        22.00          5.93
Cr. 1601         85      Ghana     Road Rehlb. & MInnance                      40.00          5.40
A-O01O          85      Ghana     Road Rehib. & Mainteunac                    10.00          1.30
Cr. 1628         86      Ohma       Pbwer Sysm Rehab.                          28.00          0.53
Cr. 1653         86      Ghana     Heodth & Education RPihb.                   15.00          4.25
Cr. 1672          86       hana       Idudril Sector Adjtu                       28.50         3.25
Czr. 1674        86      Ghana     Prs Rehabhtedon                             24.50          1.19
C Cr. 1744         87      Ghana      Education Setor MjusL                       3450          7.00
Cr. 1759         87      Gabna     Nortmrn Grid Extenion                        6.30          0.43
Cr. 1778         87    GOhna       Sbtc. AdjusL Ins S                          10.80          3.12
Cr.1801          87    CGhra        Agricultal Svcs. Reib.                     17.00         11.47
Ct. 1819         87      GaSn      Petroleum  Rdf. & DisL                      15.00         13.02
Cr. 1847         87      Ghna      Public ElaerprloTA                          10.50          8.71
Cr. 1854         88      Ghana     Cocoa RehabliItat                          40.00         40.81
Cr. 1858         88      Ghana     Transport ReAbi on  I                       60.00         45.5
Cr. 1874         88      Ghana     Porty Wodrs                                 10.60          5.15
Cr. 1921         88    Gohna       Miing Sodeorehab.                           40.00         27.57
* Cr. 1911         88      Ola        Fnancal SectAw MjusL                       100.00        16.68
Cr. 1946         89    GOhna       Telecmunkctkrsll                            19.00         14.82
Cf. 1976         89      Ohana     Forex Pks. bOagemant                        39.40         33.43
Cr. 1996         89      Ghana     khwatelS       .                            30.00         27.97
Cr. 2039         89    GOhna       Water Secor Rehab.                          25.00         25.85
Cr. 2040         89    GOhna       Rurad Finan                                 20.00         19.55
* Cr. 2005         89      Gana       SAC H                                      120.00        10.00
Cr. 2061         90      Ghana     Fifh Power MECM)                            40.00         37.68
Cr. 2109         90      Ghna      VRA/Sbdth Power                             20.00         21.34
* Cr. 2140         90      Ghana      Educaion Seacr AdjusLt H                   50.0          53.21
Cr. 2157   b/    90      Ghana     Urban I                                     70.00         75.39
* Cr.2005-2 b/   91        Ghana      SAC n                                        8.30         8.42
Ct. 2180   h     91      Ohms      Agric. Diverdation (Tre)                    16.50         17.55
Cr. 2192  bh    91       Ghna      Transpot Rehabilitation H                   96.00         96.87
Cr.2193   b/    91       Gohna     Hea" & PopulioAlo n                         27.00         27.38
of which repai                         108.89       11.59
TOTAL now held by Dbnk and IDA            80.83     1744.52
Amownt ld                                 0.38
of which repd                            0.38
TIMAL nuiSnwod                            0.00       68607         686.07
NOTE
at Affrevedmda or saft FM6
hi Ncysaffesllw
t SMACDOA



-31-
SATIME OFAMA
(AsfD.mubv 31, 1990)
Amount i US$ willion
Dade            Borower               TBpe of Bius            LM      so&         2m
1984         Ashanti Goldfie          mining                  55.0       -         SS.0  a/
CoWp.
1986         Ket Basin Oil            Oil                      -         4.5        4.5 bl
Eploration
1988         Candian Dogos            Mining                   -         0.6        0.6
Resource Ltd.
1989         Candian Bogosu           Mining                   -         0.4        0.4
Resourcs 
1989         Wahome Steel Ltd.        Stel Mfg.                3.2       -          3.2
1989         Canadian Bogosu          Miing                   47.S       0.5       48.0  cl
Resourmes M!
1989         Conti   t                Mrcbat Bking             -         0.9        0.9
Acceptanc,es Ltd.
1990         Asbanti Goldfields       Minig                   70.0       -         70.0 d/
Corp.!!
1990         Iduapriem                Mining                   -         3.0        3.0
Total Gr   Coms itmet                           17S.        91
Less epaymets and wrie-off                       6.3        1.6        7.9
Total            Now Held by IFC                169.4       8.3      177.7
Total Undisbursed,                              66.5        3.9       70.4
NOTE:
a/ nludes a US$27.S milion pu**l*pd.
b/ US$1.6 -mlon was wrtte off.
c/ncludes a US$29.0 m-ilion Pagcpetlo
d/ Inludes a US$35.0 mion pszloptln



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 25
PROGRAI TO PROMOTE PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOUPENT
LETTER OF DEVELOPNENT POLICY
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Conables
Res Ghana's Program to Promote Private Investment and
Sustained Develonment
1. *As part of its Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP), the
Government of Ghana is implementing a wide range of economic reforms in the
economy. By this letter, the Government of Ghana requests from the
International Development Association an adjustment credit to support a
programme to promote private investment and sustained development. To this
end, let me briefly recapitulate our experience with the reforms that we
have introduced, and then describe in some detail the objectives and
further actions that we intend to implement in 1991-92. Accompanying this
letter is a matrix that presents a timetable for these actions.
BACKGROUND
2.          Ghana's Economic Recovery Programme (ERP) has, since 1983, led
to considerable improvements in economic growth and development. We have
made progress on many of the broad objectives set out at its inception.
The country's economic and social infrastructure have been rehabilitated;
fiscal sad monetary discipline have been largely restored; and investment
has increased substantially, although the response from the private sector
so far has been disappointing.
3.          The major policies underpinning the efforts since 1983 have
included the achievement of a more realistic exchange rate, prices have
been deregulated across a wide range of product markets, accompanied by
trade liberalization which increasingly enabled international competition
to discipline the price setting behaviour in domestic markets.
Improvements in government revenue mobilization and the removal of
subsidies in many areas contributed to a movemert of the government budget
from large deficits into surpluses. Public sector employee-incomes have
incresaed, though modestly, funded in part by savings from the redeployment
programme. Improved development spending contributed to rehabilitation in



Annex II
- 33 -                          Page 2 of 25
several areas including transport infrastructure, and the cocoa, timber and
mining sectors. Increased budgetary support has also been provided for
education and health.
4.          Since 1987, the ERP has been implemented through a Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP), supported by two IDA credits and cofinancing from
bilateral and multilateral sources, that sought to consolidate the gains of
the initial phase of the ERP. The adjustment reforms have focused on
stimulating growth, savings and investment; strengthening the balance of
payments position; and improving resource mobilization and utilisation.
5.          The structural reforms initially focused on macroeconomic
policy issues relating to trade and exchange rate management and
restoration of fiscal and monetary discipline. From about 1986, however,
emphasis has shifted to growth oriented structural initiatives. Programmes
and projects have been implemented within the productive areas of
agriculture and industry and the social sectors of health and education.
6.          Economic performance over the reform period has generally been
satisfactory. While the annual growth of real GDP per annum has averaged
5.3 percent in the period to date, it has not been even, besides inflation
rates and current account deficits remain high. Domestic savings and
investment levels, particularly from the private sector, are, however,
still inadequate to sustain growth at even current rates.
7.          Under the ERP, the problem of poverty has been addressed
through increased growth, improved rural terms of trade, and more efficient
allocation of public expenditures. While the impact of the EP on the poor
has been by and large beneficial, there is still some cause for concern.
Further efforts are also required to maintain and further enhance the rural
terms of trade. It has to be recognized that increases in revenue as a
share of GDP will now naturally taper off, once the large gains from
improved administration are exhausted. This means that prospects for
public expenditure growth will be more limited, and greater attention will
have to be paid to the growth focus of these expenditures.
8.          The fundamental objective of macro-economic policy is
attainment of sustainable growth with development through commitment to
market-based resource allocation. Fluctuations in production have also
exposed the fragility of the economy and underscore the need for continued
structural reforms and investment to improve the ability of the economy to
adjust to changes in the internal or external environment. Within the
medium term framework specific objectives for 1991-92 includes ensuring a
real GDP growth of about 5 percent per annum; reducing the average annual
inflation rate to 8 percent by 1992t generating sizeable overall balance of
payments surpluses; and ensuring the improvement of living standards
through poverty alleviation measures.
9.          The maintenance of real GDP growth rates at 5 percent per annum
calls for increased savings and investment efforts.  While public effort
must be maintained at the relatively high current levels, the need for



- 34                   ~~~~~Annex Il
- 34 -                           Page 3 of 25
private sector efforts to assume the dominant share in both savings and
investment is crucial for the achievement of these targets. Incentives to
encourage savings and investment must include maintenance of a market-
determined exchange rate system, positive real interest rates and flexible
agricultural producer prices.
10.         Increased availability of investment opportunities would
provide incentives for holding cedi-denominated assets. Revived support
for the productive sectors should be visible in the implementation of the
corporate restructuring programme and the on-going Small and Medium-Scale
Enterprises (SME) project. In addition, the increasing budgetary
allocation for rehabilitating and expanding economic and social
infrastructure and support for agricultural extension and research would
provide an impetus to private sector activities.
11.         To achieve the inflation targets, continued tight fiscal and
monetary policies and supply enhancing policies will be pursued. Fiscal
policy will be directed at further increasing government savings. Monetary
policy will be implemented within the framework of increased reliance on
open-market liquidity management.
12.         The external payments position still remains weak.  The thrust
of policy will shift from reliance on receipts from traditional exports to
non-traditional exports. Development efforts will increasingly focus on
our capacity to diversify production and exports, based on efficient
production practices and maintenance of a realistic, competitive exchange
rate. Private sector initiatives will be supported to achieve the intended
Investment and production goals.
13.         The sustainability of the programs crucially depends on the
equitable distribution of the benefits of the reform programs. While
physical infrastructure has been improved significantly over the period,
there is a need to enhance the quality of human capital. Parallel sectoral
programmes in agriculture, health, population and education will be
implemented and, together with the specific PAMSCAD progra ues incorporated
in the PIP, will help alleviate poverty.
14.         The next phase of the reforms consists of continued
implementation of macro-economic policies that strengthen the incentive
framework for savings, investment and production and ensure macroeconomic
stability. We will emphasize measures to improve the enabling environment
for private investorn through tax reform and revisions in the legal and
regulatory framework. Further progress will be made on state enterprise
and civil service reforms. Public expenditure will support activities in
key productive sectors and social services.
XXCUANGE RATE POLICIES
15.         Exchange rate policy has been driven by the need to deal with
the severe price distortions and the inadequate foreign exchange supply.
In the wake of the unification of the foreign exchange markets achieved in
the second quarter of 1990, the policy focus will seek to ensure the



Annex II
-35-                             Page 4 of 25
maintenance of a realistic excha4ge rate in the evolving inter-bank system.
16.         Policy actions during the programme period will, therefore,
include further widening of the market to accommodate more participants,
and deepening through the complementary development of flexible open market
operations in domestic currency. Monetary policy will continue to be
reinforced by fiscal policy.
17.         Over the medium term the focus will be on increased private
capital inflows and production for exports; although we will continue to
need concessional loans and grants. In furtherance of development of a
unified foreign exchange market, the surrender of export proceeds from
goods other than cocoa and gold will be shifted from Bank of Ghana to the
deposit banks by the middle of this year.
PRIVATE SECTOR
18.         The private sector's role in achieving the growth targets of
the economy is crucial. Increased activity will satisfy three key
objectives - higher investment, production, and employment generation.
Limited government budgetary resources for increased public investment and
the continuing modest response to date of the private sector underscore the
need for fresh and expanded efforts.
19.         Further economic incentives will include the commitment to
maintain a flexible exchange rate system. In addition, supportive policies
that will ensure a stable macro-economic environment will continue to be
implemented. This will include maintenance of low rates of inflation,
higher budget surpluses and a sustainable balance of payments position.
The banking restructuring exercise currently under implementation will
improve the effectiveness of the financial intermediation process, lead to
reduction in costs of credit and provide greater access to longer term
financing for investment.
20.         Tax policies will also be employed to stimulate a more
vigorous savings and investment effort. Efforts will therefore be made to
rationalize taxation of capital and investment income to remove the bias
against equity investment, and reduce the marginal effective tax rates on
new investment. Mergers and acquisitions will also be encouraged. The
burden of high company tax, the dividend income tax and capital gains tax
has been lowered in the 1991 budget.
21.         Delays in the approval process, caused by multiplicity of
institutions, overlapping jurisdiction, and other procedures, practices and
provisions that run counter to the spirit of liberalization will be
addressed. Reconumendations made relating toa improvements in financial
intermediation$ necessity to revise laws vhich do not facilitate private
investment; harmonization of business establisbment procedures; and
itprovements made to tax administration processes aimed at promoting
efficiency and equity, have been accepted by Government for implementation.
22.         The Laws to be revised will include the Exchange Control Act
(1961 as amended in 1966), the Industrial Relations Act (1965), the Labour



Annex II
-36-                            Page 5 of 25
Decree (1967), Manufacturing Industries Act (1971), the Investment Code
(1985) and amendments to it. Government will be guided by the need to
reduce delays and the number of steps in the investment approval process
and to achieve transparency in the general body of laws. It is envisaged
that most of the technical work for revising the relevant laws and
procedures will be completed by the end of 1991, for Government approval
during the early part of 1992. Measures will also be taken to streamline
administrative requirements relating to transfer of foreign exchange,
importlexport procedures, technology transfer, granting of expatriate
quotas and reducing restrictions on foreign ownership of business.
23.         The Ghana Investments Center (GIC) will shift its emphasis from
approvals to investment promotion. It will produce a manual of benefits
and requirements for potential investors to enhance ready accessibility of
information. Furthermore the Ghana Statistical Service will be
strengthened to ensure production of current economic and statistical data
for the general public.
24.         The Government has set up an Advisory Group on Private Sector
Development. Its members are drawn largely from the private sector and
include the current presidents of the Association of Ghana Industries and
the Ghana Chamber of Commerce. The group is supported by a team of experts
with backgrounds in law, banking and finance.
TAX POLICY AND ADIINTSTRATION
25.         The thrust of government's tax policy has been to improve the
mobilisation of adequate local resources to finance higher levels of
expenditures. Declining commodity prices, and the unfavourable prospects
for mobilising concessionary resources externally, make local resources
crucial for sustaining the momentum of the recovery programme. Vhile tax
policy will continue to address the need for efficient revenue
mobilisation, in the future the focus will be on ensuring that the tax
regime promotes economic growth through a more favourable climate for
iuvestment. The strategy will be to strengthen the implementation of
existing policy while seeking ways to introduce new measures based on
recent studies.
26.         The agenda as relates to direct taxes includes broadening of
the tax base, reducing the tax rate on personal income, dividends,
corporate income and capital gains; and initiating the process of
international tax harmonization. The implementation of the policy to
broaden the tax base through inclusion of allowances and in-kind benefits
in total income will be strengthened. The valuation of in-kind benefits
would be improved to provide the basis for realistic assessment.
27.         The 1991 budget statement addressed some of these by
introducing a number of tax measures as part of a renewed effort to
revitalize the private sector. The corporate tax rate, applicable to
agriculture, manufacturing, real estate, construction and services, was
reduced from 45 percent to 35 percent; the withholding tax on dividends was
reduced from 30 percent to 15 percent; the capital gains tax was reduced to
a maximum of 5 percent, while incaone from publicly traded shares and



Annex II
~ 37 -                       Page 6 of 25
mergers and acquisitions is exempted from tax   Capital allowances provided
under the Investment Code have been extended to all enterprises in the
manufacturing sector.
28.         The Government intends to take additional actions in this area
having regard to the overall objective of stimulating a strong investment
response and achieving a high growth rate. The company income tax rate
applicable to financial intermediaries and the printing sector and all
dividend income taxation, albeit reduced to 15 percent, have been
criticized as unduly high and Government is giving this matter close
attention. The range and types of allowances to be permitted for tax
purposes and the whole question of fiscal incentives as investment
promotional devices is under active consideration.
29.         In the area of indirect taxes, the policy focus will continue
to be on encouraging greater tax compliance and broadening the tax base.
The credit system (a limited form of value added tax, VAT) which has been
under study as a pilot project is expected to provide the basis for
determination of an appropriate VAT system for the country. Continued
efforts would be made to reduce the variation in incentives across
industries and to eliminate any anti-export bias of protective taxes. The
governmet will also reduce the scope of duty exemptions, and streamline
the duty drawback system to encourage non-traditional exports. The study
on the effect of trade liberalisation on domestic industry will be
completed by June 1991 and its recommendations studied for early
Implementation.
30.         Much progress has been made in the area of tax administration,
a lot, however, remains to be done in areas of manpower development and
institutional strengthening. Expanded in-country training programmes for
staff of IRS and CEPS will be implemented side by side with public
education campaigns. As part of the general scheme to improve tax
administration, a unique tax identification number for individuals will be
introduced this year.
31.         To speed up customs clearance processes, CEPS will implement
the decision to merge into one exercise the physical inspection of imports
now conducted separately by CEPS, the Ghana Port and Harbours Authority and
the security services. In addition, in order to minimize the problem of
congestion at the ports, CEPS will encourage the processing of documents to
start before the arrival of goods. On computerization within CEPS, efforts
will be made to expand the ASYCUDA system to the other ports of entry, and
with the appropriate modifications, if necessary, to cover all the direct
and indirect taxes, by December 1991.
32.         The IRS will streamline procedures for filing returns and
payment of arrears, particularly for the self-employed. Steps have been
taken to address the concern of the private sector arising from customs
clearance procedures and from the use of tax clearance certificates. A
significant relaxation of the TCC was announced in January 1991, with only
four categories of transactions remaining on the required list. The
Government intends to continue to review the requirements for ?CC.



Annex II
Page 7 of 25
- 38 -
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE POLICY
33.         Public expenditure policy will continue to be guided by the
need for increased efficiency in resource use. In the medium term, the
objectives are to increase domestic savings; to pursue prudent wage policy
while ensuring that the professional classes are adequately remunerated.
Public investment programmes will continue to be directed towards the
rehabilitation of infrastructure guided by the needs for the priority
sectors of agriculture, health and education.
34.         Considerable efforts have been made to improve resource
allocation through the three year rolling public investment programming
process and the development of norms for non-wage recurrent expenditures in
key ministries. Continuing efforts will be made to improve budgetary
procedures and strengthen expenditure monitoring and control. Activities
will focus on timeliness of budget preparation, improved budget formulation
and coverage and strengthening of the Audit Service and the Controller and
Accountant General's Department to discharge their responsibilities more
efficiently. In addition, the quest for increased cost-effectiveness
requires that social infrastructural needs of the poor are carefully
integrated in the public expenditure progranne.
35.         In order to enable implementation to commence early in January,
it is planned to announce the budget in the last week of December. The
budget document will be more comprehensive and will incorporate more
information on external aid commitments and disbursements. In this
connection, improvements will be sought to enable implementation of a broad
based budget by 1992. Preparatory work on systems development will be
undertaken in 1991, to facilitate full implementation in 1992. in the
meantime, in order to enhance implementation capacity, more attention will
be paid to establishing a commltments-based budgeting system.
36.         The inadequate costing of services and other costs associated
with project implementation have contributed to higher realised costs.
Besides, until recently, returns on actual costs were not systematically
analyzed. These weaknesses will be remedied through improved budgeting and
accounting procedures. In addition, budget information on planned and
actual expenditures will be fully computerized to facilitate analysis. In
addition, the Government intends to review the contract approval process
with the view to reducing delays.
37.         The three-year PIP will continue to be prepared annually within
a macro-economic framework which will be updated periodically. The PIP
will also continue to emphasize the rehabilitation and expanslon of
economlc and social infrastructure to support private sector activities as
well as addressing the needs of the poor. The recurrent cost mplications
of the PIP will be given serious consideration. In order to Improve the
poverty focus, analyses by region and programme (basic education, primary
health care, agricultural extension) of the distribution of current and
capital expenditure have begun. On the basis of these, budget guidelines
will be developed to increase the relative share of expenditure goLng to
poorer regions; and to programmes benefitting the poor.



Annex II
Page 8 of 25
- 39 -
38.         Budgetary allocations for agriculture will support work mainly
in extension and research. Problems of low productivity, high post harvest
losses, and inadequate and inefficient infrastructure have plagued the
sector. Activities of both applied and basic research at the agricultural
research institutions and of extension services will, therefore, be
adequately supported by increased supply of physical inputs to provide the
impetus and enabling environment for sustained growth and efficient and
competitive agriculture. The details of agricultural policy measures and
activities outlined above are contained in the IDA supported Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Programme (AGSAP) and the government's medium term
agricultural development programmes (MTADP).
39.         For the industrial sector, the strategy requires the
rehabilitation of potentially viable enterprises in processing especially
in the agro-based (including forestry) sector. In this, however,
Government intends to play a limited direct role and consequently will
encourage the growth of a vigorous private sector. Government's intention
of stimulating private sector development is to be advanced through
minority participation with the private sector. This will help to
establish the proposed Enterprise Restructuring Fund envisaged under the
ERP. In addition, government will support management and technical
manpower development institutions. These institutions will be expected to
provide extension-type support in industry.
40.         Like most developing countries, systematic analysis of our
environmental problems began only recently. Problems of deforestation,
poor sanitation in urban areas, industrial pollution and soil degradation
are quite common. In order to address these, a National Environmental
Action P.-an (NEAP), a National Plan of Action to Combat Desertification and
a National Conservation Strategy are being prepared. The recently
completed draft of the NEAP envlsages proposals to improve the quality of
national life. These proposals cover such areas as a land use plan.
environmental education programmes, community forestry programmes, and an
environmental impact assessment mechanism in the country and implementation
of an industrial waste management programme.
41.         While the EPC is to provlde overall coordination of this
effort, several institutions such as the Forestry Commission, Factory
Inspectorate Department and the National Energy Board, will be directly
involved in the implementation of the proposed programmes. In addition,
district environmental management committees will be set up for monitoring
and coordinating activities at the district level.
POVUITY ALLEVITION
42.         As indicated in the earlier sections of this letter, the
Government's economlc management policies will be driven by the concerns
for improving private sector development and reducing poverty. The
following section will address issues related to poverty alleviation under
the headings of health and population, education and other social sector
issues.



Annex rr
Page 9 of 25
- 40 -
43.         The main thrust of government's health policv is to increase
access to quality health delivery services through the implementation of an
effective primary health care programe. The strategy is to consolidate
the programme under implementation through better delivery of services and
to expand the coverage.
44.         This commitment to expand health delivery services entails
considerable provision of infrastructure, at all levels. To meet this
need, including rehabilitation requirements, the government will match
resources and manpower mobilised at the comnunity level. Government vill
provide for a regular maintenance of buildings, plants and equipment to
improve health services. Measures to ensure efficient and equitable use of
drugs and dressings through a cash and carry system: institutional
restructuring, involving reorganisation of the health system leading to
decentralisation of operational responsibilities, activities and control of
resources; and, in addition, manpower improvement plans, will be
implemented.
45.         The government's Dopulation policy aims at securing higher
living standards for the people. The inmediate aim is to reduce the
population growth rate of about 3 percent. Current activities are
therefore geared towards strengthening the institutional capaclty for
effective coordination of population programes.  The recently established
Population Policy Implementation Assessment Committee (PPIAC) will help to
put in place, by the end of 1991, a National Population and Human Resources
Commission (NPHRC) which will be responsible for advising government and
monitoring population programmes. The health and population sector
project, which will be implemented during 1991-95, will promote greater
sectoral consistency in population programmes and projects. In addition,
the 1969 policy programme will be revised to incorporate emerging issues
such as youth problems, teenage and adolescent pregnancies, drug addiction,
the problems of the aged and environmental issues.
46.         Institutional restructuring measures being taken to complement
the physical improvements in the sector include Zecentralization and
manpower Improvement plans. The Ministry of Health is being reorganized
with a view to decentralize its operational responsibilities, activities
and control of resources. In order to provide qualified staff to manage
such plans, the strengthening of hospital management teams has become
urgent. The recent appointment of Boards for the two teaching hospitals is
the first step; and this will be replicated over the system. The need for
qualified managers will be met from Health Services administrators'
upgrading courses which will be mounted through seminars and formal
courses. The government's efforts will be aided by effective co-ordination
of NGOs involved in health service delivery activities.
47.         By the middle of this decade on-going programmes involving
immunizations will aim at reducing infant mortality rates from the current
level of 77 per 1000 births to 67 per 1000. Pre- and post-natal services
will be geared to reducing the maternal mortality rate from 10 per 1000
deliveries to 8 per 1000. Increased use of modern contraceptives will be
promoted to double the current usage rate for women aged 15-49.



Annex 11
Page 10 of 25
- 41 -
48.         The first phase of the educational reform Rrogramme which was
Implemented in 1987-89 focused on the implementation of the Junior
Secondary school (JSS) programme which reduced the length of pre-university
education, reformed the curriculum, and provided more textbooks and
imstrictional materials. Teacher training facilities expanded to support
the programme.
49.         In the second phase the restructuring and expansion of Senior
Secondary Schools (SSS), is being emphasized. The objectives are to
improve access, quality and relevance of education; diversify school
curriculum to cater for different talents and skills; and ensure
sustainability of the reforms through cost-effectiveness and cost-recovery
schemes.
50.         The curriculum broadening and deepening processes will be
implemented to prepare students for a wide range of occupations. To
improve efficiency, the frequency and quality of classroom supervision will
be raised; while efforts will be made to ensure increasing use of
professionally qualified tutors. Quality of educational staff will be
improved through a continuing programme of massive in-service training
courses for teaching, management, and supervisory staff. In order to
secure a sustainable programme, cost recovery measures and cost
effectiveness of expenditures would continue to be pursued. Such measures
would include increased utilization of local materials where appropriate,
operating a revolving fund for book replenishment based on collections from
book user fees, eliminating the direct subsidy for school feeding, reducing
the number of non-teaching staff and close monitoring of procurement and
disbursement procedures to minimize waste.
51.         The efforts made and the successes achieved under ERP have led
to a lessening of the extent of economic hardships experienced in the
period immediately preceding ERP. Supply of goods and services including
social infrastructure and facilities in health, education and housing have
been improved. However, the search for a lasting reduction in poverty
continues. This is because continuing hardships are being faced by
vulnerable groups such as non-cocoa, small-scale farmers, retrenched
workers, underemployed and unemployed workers in the urban informel sector
and children.
52.         Securing higher living standards in our environment essentially
means increased generation of productive employment. in this connection,
the efforts to improve savings and investment will support improved living
standards through higher production. Well coordinated support for small-
scale agriculture and other small-scale economic ventures, mainly in mining
and manufacturing, will be provided through the PIP with credit in the form
of revolving funds and extension-type technology diffusion support. Other
funding sources including IFAD's small-holder programme facilities, IDA
sponsored rural finance and SME credits, together with the improved
services expected from restructured rural banks will be geared to
stimulating small-scale production and income generating activities.



Annex II
Page 11 of 25
- 42 -
53.         The short term benefits of the ERP will continue to be secured
through PAMSCAD. While these programmes have come to be seen as
St-vernment's immediate response to the plight of the poor, they have also,
in a number of cases, become major sources of local resource mobilization.
Several lessons have been learnt from PAMSCAD; and projects and programmes
such as the community initiative projects (CIP), small-scale agricultural
programmes, hand-dug wells, low cost sanitation and non-formal education
that have proved successful will be incorporated in the PIP.
STATE UTERPRISE REORPS
54.         The objectives of the state-owned enterprises reform programme
have been to improve efficiency and profitability; reduce the financial
burden on the government budget; increase managerial autonomy and
accountability; and mobilize additional financial and entrepreneurial
resources. In the medium term the activities of the reform programme will
continue to be geared toward strengthening management and financial
performance, and streamlining the sector through restructuring and
divestiture. In this context, the programme vill ensure expansion of the
private sector role in commercial activities, while government concentrates
its resources and efforts on providing basic services.
55.         In order to accelerate the pace of divestiture, several
options, namely outright sale, public or employee share issue, leasing,
management contracts and liquidation are being actively adopted. By
January 1991, 37 SOEs had been divested. The programme also envisages a
divestiture of 25 enterprises in 1991. Progress on implementation will be
monitored on the basis of nine identified key action steps. These include
preparation of a list of SOEs to be divested, updating financial
statements, valuation, preparation of company dossiers, advertising and
identifying investors, evaluation of investors' proposals, negotiating vith
selected investors, approval of divestiture by DIC and conclusion of
transactions. Subsequently, yearly targets will be set within the context
of government's policy for raising additional equity capital, infusing new
management expertise, and/or technology. In any particular year, the
necessary provision for liabilities of divested enterprises will be made in
the budget after off-setting resources gained from previous divestment.
The allocation for 1991 is ¢3.5 billion. Liquidations have accounted for a
fairly large proportion of divestment until 1989 since then, however, the
focus has shifted to privatizations.
56.         For the SOEs, mainly utilities, which remain in the
government's portfolio, strengthening of management capabilities and
financial and operating performance is of prime concern. Apart from
specific manpower development programmes to improve professionalism of
staff, institutional restructuring vill be accelerated. Selected
enterprises which now prepare Corporate Plans will continue to update their
plans yearly. In addition associated performance agreements vill be
prepared and signed yearly for 13 priority enterprises. 6overnment's
financial support to enterprises which are reflected in the budget will
also be explicitly captured in the enterprise corporate plan and
performance agreement. The outcome of these agreements will be closely



Annex II
Page 12 of 25
- 43 -
monitored. To support this and generally aid the management process,
preparation and publication of timely audited financial accounts will be
ensured.
BLIC SECTOR MANA¢EM?
57.         The increasing demands of the reform programme on the
management expertise of the public sector, especially the Civil Service,
has Imposed strains. The shortage of skills has not only affected typical
administrative personnel but also the technical professional classes. The
current programme seeks improved efficiency by the creation of better
incentives.
58.         As part of the efficiency and productivity increasing drive,
reduction of excess labour, particularly at the lower echelons, will be
continued and at the same time skill shortages in critical areas will be
relieved. The Management Services Division (MSD) will continue its
systematic job inspection exercises and define optimum staffing levels for
ministries, GES and subvented organizations through annual manpower
hearings, as was done during the 1991 budget preparations.
59.         Meanwhile the redepljyment programme is being extended to
subvented organizations. For - 91, the Government will maintain a
redeployment target of 12,000. The year-end net redeployment for the civil
service will be at least 2500 and would permit selective recruitment to
fill vacancies at higher levels. Achievement of the target will be
monitored on a monthly basis through PPMD'S manpower data base. For 1992,
the Government will set appropriate new year-end targets for redeployment
and for employment levels.
60.         Provision of incentive wageslsalaries has remained a thorny
national issue but particularly so in the civil service.  Government policy
is to provide a pay structure that generally ensures that efficiency and
productivity are duly rewarded. The Prices and Incomes Board will prepare
an Incomes Policy and Guidelines which will form the basis of the
tripartite discussions on salaries. The 1991 pay package combined a
general pay increase and a further stretching of pay relativities.
Progress was made from the 1990 level of 9.4s1 to achieve 10.1ls gross
relativities for 1991. However, this understates the progress made. After
taking into account the impact of the consolidation of major allowances
into the basic wage and revisions in the personal income tax structure, the
after tax ratio rose from 6.7s1 in 1990 to 9.2sl in 1991. Government
remains committed to the medium term target of 13.4:1 (pre-tax), the
establishment of a uniform incremental date and regrading of all civil
service posts into a reduced number of occupational classes.
61.         Current plans are to develop a 12-grade structure for senior
staff and a much reduced number of job classes at junior levels, all based
on systematic job evaluations. When the processes of job evaluations and
costing proposals are also completed for the junior levels by mid-1991, it
would be possible to detail an implementation programme for introducing the
new grading structure at the start of 1992. Performance appraisal systems



Annex II
Page 13 of 25
- 44 -
which are being developed will be finalised to serve as the basis for
introducing a system of merit pay by 1992.
62.         Efforts underway to strengthen civil service management will
continue throughout the programme period. MSD will continue to play an
essential part in helping to bring about efficiency improvemente. In
addition to ongoing job inspections, it will put increasing emphasis on
management reviews, with a view to rationalize organizations and reduce
wasteful duplication of functions. As a further means of improving
efficiency, the possibility of privatizing services such as security,
cleaning and facility maintenance will be explored. This will be done on
an experimental basis at first.
63.         PPMD will pursue its efforts to reinforce its ability to
maintain data on manpower levels and flows, and carry out manpower planning
exercises, for which its Manpower Planning Unit will play an Increasingly
important role. A focused effort will be made to address the needs and
succession planning requirements at management levele In the Civil Service.
PPMD will also assist Ministries seeking to establish manpower planning
units. PPMD and Ministerial capacities will be considerably enhanced in
this respect with the development of an integrated personnelipayroll
information management system.
64.         The Training and Manpower Development Division (TMDD), in
addition to managing ongoing training activities, will produce a civil
service training strategy which will serve as a basis for the planning of
training activities in the next few years.
FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES
65.         The need to strengthen the financial sector so that it
discharges effectively its responsibility of facilitating the
implementation of business activities under ERP/SAP, led to the design of a
Financial Sector Adjustment Programme, (FINSAP). The broad objectives of
FINSAP have been to establish a well functioning and broadly based
financial sector with a viable and effective banking system at its core;
and to design a financial system that remains sensitive and responsive to
national development priorities. In line with these, measures such as
liberalization of interest rates and removal of sectoral credit ceilings
have been undertaken. As part of the overall measures to enhance the
soundness of banking institutions, the legal and regulatory framework has
been improved and supervision strengthened, while management, institutional
and financial restructuring of the banks is being implemented. The two-
prong strategy now is to strengthen implementation of the on-going reforms
in the commercial banks, as well as to diversify and strengthen the
financial sector.
66.         The turn around plans specific to each bank, which address
management, institutional and financial weaknesses, are being implemented
with positive results. Apart from internal development of, and search for
competent managers, external recruitment within the context of twinning
arrangements with reputable international financial institutions have been



Annex II
Page 14 of 25
- 45 -
organized. Where twinning arrangements were not possible, individual
experts and professionals are being recruited to fill key posts.
67.         A Non-Performing Assets Recovery Trust (NPART) has been set up
together with its special judiciary tribunal: and is now fully operational.
Side by side with NPART a corporate restructuring programme for potentially
viable enterprises will be launched to revive real sector activities. The
NPART activities in terms of work-outs for distressed enterprises will
complement the corporate restructuring programme and provide the banking
sector with healthier clients. The activities in the corporate sector and
private sector development, in general, are expected to be further
strengthened by the operations of the newly established stock exchange
which commenced trading business in November 1990.
68.         To facilitate the implementation of the financial sector
reforms, the Bank of Ghana will be recapitalized and its foreign currency
losses reflected in revaluation losses are being transferred to the
government. Its operational capacity in terms of procedures and techniques
will be improved to enhance its effectiveness in the supervision of
commercial banks and other financial institutions and in implementing
monetary policy. A healthy and stable non-bank financial sector will be
developed.
69.         The reforms in the financial sector especially those relating
to the commercial banks and the programme for strengthening BOG should lead
to greater availability of resources for the private sector, higher
efficiency in financial intermediation and help to reduce costs thereby
contributing to a reduction in the spread between lending and deposit
rates.
MONITORING
70.         Implementation and monitoring of the reform activities are
becoming more and more challenging over time. This is partly due to the
increasing number of activities and programmes and the growing complexities
of project design requiring installation of new systems and procedures.
This has meant an increasing input of technically sound professionals and
experienced management teams.
71.         Ensuring effective implementation and monitoring of programmes
will involve strengthening of institutions, and streamlining of procedures
and processes. In addition, availability of timely and adequate
information/data will be important for close and effective monitoring.
Institutionally, the co-ordinating role of Ministry of Finance in the
management of World Bank projects will be further strengthened. In this
respect, the recently established World Bank Desk will serve as a link
between the implementing agencies and IDA and its resident mission. The
implementing agencies will establish a systematic reporting format and
liaise with the World Bank Desk. At least once in every quarter there
shall be a project review exercise and implementing agencies will report on
their activities. In between, the SAP Monitoring Unit at Ministry of
Pinance and Economic Planning will collect monthly reports on the status of



Annex II
Page 1S of 25
46 -
implementing agencies' activities. The World Bank Desk will also serve ms
the Secretariat of the SAP team which will continue to oversee the
management of the progralms.
COII,CLISMt
72.         In view of the Initiatives taken by Government In the
formulation and Implementation of the next stage of reforac, the Government
of Ghana requests your favourablo consideration for the extension of an
adjustment credit in the amount of at least US$120 million to support a
program to promote private investment and sustained development.
- _^,sr fo774M



-47-                                      E.
APa 16 f 25
OHANA: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual      Zak    N1Pojce
1987    1988    1989    1990   1991   1992   1993
GDP Growth Rate                              4.8%    5.6%     S1%    2.7 %  4  . 4A%   14
GDY Growdt Rate      a/                      4.7%    5.1%    2.9%    1.1%   4        M  .%
ODY/Capita Grwth Rate                        2.0%    2.3%    0.2%   -1.S%  4         t      *
Total ConumpoC*apit Growth Raft              0.7%    0.9%    1.0%   -0.5%f        Y  %*
Private Comumption/Capita Growth Rate        1.2%   OSS    1.0%    0.3% 
CPI Gowth Raft                              39.8%   31.4%   25.2%   37.2%2                 XM
Gross Ilvestment/GDP                        13.4%   14.2%   15.5%   16.0%
Domestic Savhg,sGDP                          7.0%    8.5%    8.0%    6.2%~
NaDonal SavinsGDP                            8.5%    9.3%    9.7%    7.9%
Public Investment/GDP  b/                    7.9%    8.0%    7.9%    7.4%9 6 _
Public SavinsGDP                             2.9%    2.7%    2.S%    1.8%
Private snltm/GDP c/                         S.5%    6.1%    7.6%    8.6%
Private Savings/GDP                          5.7%    6.6%    7.2%    6.1%
Ratio of Publi/Privat  /Iv_estm     ct       1.44    1.31    1.04    0.86
Ooveient RevensGDP                          14.1%   13.5%   13.6%   12.7%          ,
Goverment ExpmdftursGDP                     19.1%   18.9%   19.1%   18.33_
Overal Deficit/GDP d/                       -3.1%   -3.7%   -3.1%   -4.4%.
Domwetic Finning                            -0.4%   -0.6%   -1.1%   -1.4%     .
Export GrowthlRate                           9.8%    6.6%   12.7%    &3%~1
E=lorts/GD                                  19.7%   18.4%   16.9%   16.4%
I4ml rGwwthhRte                             19.8%   -0.4%    2.2%    2.9%~
Imports/GDP                                -26.1%  -24.1%  -24.4%  -26.2% 
Current Accouat (US$ mln)                    -224    -252    -306    -468  _
Curent Accoumt/GDP                          -4.9%   -4.9%   -5.8%   -8.2%
Debt Service/XGS    o/                      61.8%   67.0%   S8.3%   36.4%S
NOTE: Figu  are rounded. Data r  r   d      ie   I eca  of   n_  rvdc   i   a ac
and a dovwagd  rvW  in d pdo a   _ud   wbqat to PPt _odto hIn  1990I.
u/ ODY = GDP adjue for clan in th tem of rde
b/ Includes fg aid and na leading.
c/ Staff estimat. Private Insumet Is calaulad adu a  takitg Ito acount publc Iniestet.
estmatd an eo bass of budget and dIsbument of oceeeona assitanc  Recn misos of
natoa accounts havewresuted in the   estiates dso  In Anem L
d/ Inudes etrad  gaistace;p  ant  a finacing m.
df Debt sevice Inlde W and arrears pants, but ededB pdvat dft  XGS - Export ctgSods and srvie.
SOURCE Gonmet of Ghan, Policy Famewok Paper, nuay 1991 - Decbe 1993.



-48 -                                     Annex II
OAHA                                      Page 17 of 25
ACTIONS UNDER THlE PROGRAM TO PROMOTE PRIVAME VESTET AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN (1991-1992)
I.  PROMOTION OF PRIVATE SAVMS AND IVlESTMENT
Objectives:    To maintain a stable macroeconomic environment that facilItates privete Investment and
savings; to improve Incentives for private Investment and savinp; to promote a more dynamic
supply response to tho program; and to expand economte opportunities for private Initiative.
Performance Under            ------------Aetlon  Progra--------------------
Structural Adjustment           Weor                    B  ore                               Bedore
Program 19087-190             Mrch 1991               may 1994                            March 1092
1. use     n _ l             Agreed on PFP covering                                    Continued
s_________-----              1091-98. Inflation                                        Implementation of
Significnt progs             deelerated to 27                                          macroeconomle program
In restoring                 pereent by February                                       as outlined In PFP,
macroeconomic                1901, ln par owing to                                     adjusted as neessary
stabilIty, In spite of       ioplementtion of                                          In conwsltation wIth
sharp deterioration In       several monetary                                          IDA and World Bank.
term  of trade.              policy   asures.
Public savings               Thse Included an
overagd 2.5 percent          lnereas  In theh  Bank
of GOP, compared to .1       of Ghana rediscount
percent in 1986.             rate and Intensified
External arrears             open market
eliminated and debt          oprstlons. As a
service ratio has            result, several
fallen from 67 percent       londing rates turned
In 1688 to 89 percent        pooltlve In real
In 199B. However,           terms.
after dbeelorating
from 142 percent (end
of period basis) In
19938 to 27 percent In
1068 lnflation
accelorated to 41
percent In September
1lo9.
2.  55!DMR pj                                                                          Maintenance of market-
Retail forTegn               Maintenance of mrket-                                     detrmi ned exchango
exchange auction and         determi nd oxchang                                        rate sstem.
bureu market                 rate system.                                              Incr ea  the share of
uniftod. Most                                                                          export proceeds
remaining exchange                                                                     surrendered to the
restrictions on                                                                        commrcial banks.
current aCCount
transactions lifted.
Spread between bureau
and wholoesle vuction
rates eliminated.
Auction expanded to
Include service
payment. on approved
private external
borrowing.
Transforation of
auction from retail to
wholesal, market with
expanded role for
coamerclal banks.
However, limited base
for Interbank exchange
market because of
surrender requirements
to the Centrol Bank.
NotoI  UnderI1ne  action  are condition  of second tranch  releouo.



-49-                                  mex II
Page 18 of 25
Perforance Undwer                       -A-c--     -ction Prosgr-
Structural Adjstmen            Botors                   "form                           BEtore
Program 1997-1991             March 1991               Vey 1991                        March 1992
S. kE5hb _ 1"               Rates of suprales                                         tomplet  tudy on
rroees o nction             tax redued from range                                     efect of trado
of tax rates aGros          of 7C-600 percent to                                      Ii beraliation on
comprable Imported         Is-l  percnet.                                            desetic Industry.
and domest ic lly                                                                     Estaisoh procedure.
produced goods                                                                        *nd criteria to review
coomploted.   mport                                                                   rates of duty on
duty rate on semi-                                                                    particular producs.
procesed Intermediate                                                                 Eliminate special
goods and special tax                                                                 lmport taxes  xcept
on textile imports                                                                    for beer, spirits, and
lowered. However,                                                                    tobacco products, for
variation In effectlv                                                                which special Import
protection remain                                                                     taxes will be redued
mainly becauso of                                                                     to 19 percnt. Reduce
special Import taeO                                                                   Scope of duty
and duty exemptions.                                                                  exemptions and
stre mine duty
drwbck system.
Reduce the differenc
4.  Ot  c XxeReduced corporate                                                        (a) beten the top
Level ofpersonal             income and personal                                     "mrgtinl tax rats on
lncome tax relief           incoe tax, dividend                                       personal income and
rnisd.  Som                 tax and caital gains                                      corporate incoO tax
loopholes with reopect      tax   furthe ralsed                                       rate; and
to non-taxable              level of relief on                                        (b) beteen tax rates
allownam    closed,         pronal Ineo  taxe4.                                      on different
Withholding tax on          Distinction betwoen                                       industiefo  moanly by
dividend payment.          *slary and non-taxable                                     lowering the rates
convert d to final          allowances reoed,                                         appiae ble to finonce
tax.  Company income        Implemen*ed other                                         and printing.
tax rate lowered a          measures to decreas
capital gains taxatlon      the tax burden on                                         Make furthor prores
modified.                   equlty finance.                                           on double taxation
eroent neoations
with principal trading
partners.
Implement further
step to rationalize
base, rate, and
brackoe structure.
Exten the limit on
carry-over period for
loe_   nd further
reduc dilvidend
taxtion.
Expend bus to Include
cash and in-kind
benfite that rermin
ta xexept or under-
value.
Notes  Underitned actions ar conditions of second trancho release.



-50 -                             Annex II
Page 19 of 25
Prtormance Under            ------------------ ction Progr--
Structural Adjustmnt          Betor                    BBeor                           8efore
Program i9w7-i,              March 1M                 may 1991                        March 192
S.   4AdircT x              Reduced sales tax rate                                   Further reductions In
Reductlon In side tax       from 22.5X to 17.51.                                     sales tax rote If a
rate from 26 to 22.6                                                                VAT to Introduced,
porcent.   ncon-                                                                    otherwise as rosources
sistencies eliminated                                                                permit.
In determination of
base for excse and                                                                          Ith ID on
sales taxes. Taxation                                                                        In tox
on petroleum products                                                                             *nouncs
and vehicles                                                                          n      uos 
incresed.
6. Tax SWmIlstroteaeo
Insfti1Iion of              Continued Installation                                  Complete a
ASYCUDA system to           ot ASYCUDA for customs                                   comprehensiv  review
improve colloction of       tax"s. Commened                                         of design options and
customs taxes begun.        operation of Tax                                        feasibility of a VAT.
Unique taxpayer             Appeals Tribunal.
Identifieation number       Improved admInistra-                                    Complete instalotion
Introduced for              tton prmitte d                                          of ASYCUDA for customs
companiso. Study            elimination of 9 out                                     taxes nd extend to
completed on sales tax      of a tot a  of 18 TCC                                    other direct and
administration. Pilot       re qIrements.                                            tndtrect taxe.
effort to test              Streamlined customs                                      Introduce unique
feaotbiIlty of              proceduren.                                              txpyFor
replaisng current                                                                    identification number
system with a VAT. Tax                                                               for Individuals.
Appeals Tribunal set                                                                 Continue reform  to
up. Tax Clrce                                                                       ecoura   voluntary
Certifticate                                                                         comline, including
Introduced to improve                                                               further review of the
tax collections, but                                                                 need for TCCs.
requirement are wide-
ranging and thus amd
to cost of doing
busines In Ghana.
Notes  Underlined actions are conditione of second tranche rtlo  .



- 51 -                        Annex II
Page 20 of 25
Performance Under            -----                ---Action Progra m---           -----
Structure I Adj ustment        Before                   Before                            efore
Program 1987-1900             March 1991               may 1991                         March 1992
. Rbsultor                   Proces underway to                                        Prrose I n r     Iola
Fr;aor                       harmonize diverse                                         or revlips  In v
Cov ra mnt xp and d          business registration                                     manner *atd acto  to
dlalogue with private        forms which Is                                                 the Exchngg
*ector. Conforence           expected to tead to                                         roitrIlct. the
held to promoto direct       the elimination of                                        I    ut   Relations
forign investment.           requirement to obtain                                     ct  the Labor Dcree.
Foreign direct               manufacturing and                                         ta   ManuFncurins
Investment In mialng         Iavestment polIcy                                         ThdutrieAct   iki
growing. Reforms of         lIcense. Policy                                            groc  n  nrevisin
banking system               Advisory Group drawn
started. However,            from private sector
level of private            established to guide                                                      In
Investment Inadequate        review of legal
to support growth            re ulations affecting
objectives.                  prvate Investors                                          em
Regulatory frameork          Agreed on principles,
has not been modifld        proces and
to reflect                   Implementation
liberalization of           schedule for review of
economy which has            legal regulations                                         _
taken place under ERP.       affecting private                                         Covernent to fiilze
Fiscal Incentives not        investorso                                                guldelines on
effective In                                                                           technology transfer
attracting Investment.                                                                 agreemento. Ese and
make more automtitc
immigration procedures
for expatriate
technical and
nagertial stff.
Note:  Underlined actions are conditions of second tranche relean.



- 52 -                              Annex II
II. STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISES                                                                  Page 21 of 25
Objectives:    To lmprove officioncy and financlil perforanc.l to Increase accountability; and to reduce
slae of s*ctor.
Performance Under            ------------Action Program--------------
Structural Adjustment           Befor,                  Bore                                 8efor.
Program 1987-1990             March 191                may 1991                            March 1992
1. Ettics  nd               Finalized performanco-       Corporate plans updated      YW*to coro rt  plans
finnucl-l rorioernor        based lncentive system.      and performnce                  risrilUil
FPrformance a mr _ts                                      greements signed for            roric   and
for 18 priority                                          18 priority                  f lij  'ror nce
enterprise, based on                                     enterprien.                    .ii     rBelnto
updated corporate                                                                     Imple_et p  rt nc -
plans, signed                                                                         based Incentive system.
Performanc,%-b aed
incentive syste
doveloped by SEC.
Studies on pricing,          Completed review of                                      Implement oction plan.
stffing, remuneration,       studi   and prepared                                     Compte study of
and procuremt                action pln, icludin                                      legoisative and
practices of SOEs            rationalization of                                       Institutional framework
completed.                  collective bargaining                                     of state enterprise
agreements.                                              relative to that for
private sector.
Cross debt study                                         Ensure that performance
completed and arrer                                      agreemont  take  into
between Government and                                   account steps to cloer
major utility companies                                  any cros debts betwen
settled.                                                 governmAnt and SQEs.
2. R duo S.iz  o_f           10 additional                                              Sfacory 60"lWon
sector                      enterprise  divs*tdo.  1991_d_                                    _ _t_nt
fA*nterprlose               Agrement on work                                            ogn 4PnsEr ent
liquidated (in additlon     program for divestment
to 19 enterpris              in 1991.
effectively liquidated
In 1988) and 5
enterprise sold.
Moratorium on creation       Moratorium to remaln In
of now SOEs In effect.      effect for duration of
program except as
agreed with IDA, and
subject to xTisting
laws.
Note:  Undrlilned action  are conditions of *scond tranche release.



- 53                             Annex II
III. PMUC EXE URES AD POER  ALEVIATIN                                                   Page 22 of 25
Objectives:   To ensure that public expenditures are conistent with maero.conomtc framwork; to improv
allootione for operation and maintentne ; to increas efficioney of public spending nd
lmprove focus on poverty alloelation; and to strengthen budget proe dure, and expendlture
control and montoring.
Performnco Unde                                 -Actilon Program--------------------
Structural Adjustment         Before                   Before                              BEfore
Program 1967-1996            March 1991              may 1991                          March 1992
1. 111ocon MMI                                                                      Updbte mecroeconomic
Framework                                                                           framework twice a year.
gacroeconomic fr_amork
updated for PFP and
roview of the 199-92
public expenditure
program.
2.  ff1loR2  of             Agre d with IDA on                                      Eudget document to
bubo to OUdIIree            torms of refrence for                                   Include Itformation on
Draft gul  lsn on           design of budget                                        development
recurrent expendttur        information system                                      expenditures, Including
allocations for helth,      which would link                                        foreign financing.
education, and              Information on PIP and
agriculture used to         ald flows with the                                      Acreement with IDA on
prpare 1989 and 1990        budget.                                                 1    current
budgets. PIP noeds to       Asreemet with IDA on                                   sijndifurse and l1-
better ddre                 1991 recurrent                                          94 _bil_  Inv_s_s_n_t
recurrent cost              allocations and 1991-98                                 aroeroa.
mplicatlans of              pubitc expenditure
project.                    prorm.
PIP Task Force
incorporsted Into the
Investment Projecto
Analysis Division of
WEP. Work undertaken
to match classifice-
tion of PIP and budget
acounte. Neod to more
fully ineorporste PIP
Into the budgt.
Adjust spatial
*. Pob yAihxhkIln          Work underway to                                        distribution of eocial
P SCO being                 evaluate poverty focus                                  meeor expenditures In
implemented. Budget        of public exp_diture.                                    publ e *xpenditure
allocations for ocial                                                               program to take Into
sectors have risen.                                                                 acount nds of
Ned to use pubiIc                                                                   poorest *reas. Ensure
xpenditur  more                                                                     focus on servicon which
effectively to                                                                      have most benotft for
alloviate powvrty.                                                                  the poor. Reviow
peogress on
Incorporating poverty
concerne Into public
expenditure program by
analyzing dietr button
of actual xp nditures
In 191 and b
assessng enxporince In
the us of the
guidelim. make
proposals for necessry
dif  tlat ona nd
possible extenion.
Notet Underlined actions *re conditions of second tprnche rpolese.



i                                         I S  
§~~~~~~~~~~~~~11                   1 i
W  ls-W!'lti'ls¢20 X§*0*



-55 -                             Annex II
IV. CIVIL SERVICE 1M                                                                     Page 24 of 25
Obje*tlve.:   To IMproVe effectiveness of publie administration; to enable the Govornmnt to attract and
retain qualIfled staf; ond to etrengthen personnel and payroll management.
Performance Under            -      --    Actlon Progr                r- - ----------- -
Structural Adjustment          Before                   Before                               before
Program 187-190               IMrch 1991               May 1991                           March 1992
1. Econontc PollewConission consult ncy                                               Tak step  to
Estzbllahaent ofPol icy                                  to develop the               strengthn the PoliCy
Analysis Division In                                     organiantion and             Analysis Division.
MFEP.  Incorporation of                                  opration of the Policy
Structural Adijustmn t                                   Analyls Division.
Program Scretrlat
Into MFEP *nd
a*signment of staff to
coordinato economic
reform and related
ctoe prog rams.
However, economic
polI  making stilI
weak because of lock of
tralned staff and
uncertainty on
Priorities.
2.           vltlons Completed job                                                    fl
cI;vlI * rvT   pa vend sonlor posts.In        udc-
Incre  in  989 and          Implemented pay
99 lncreased salary          restructuring to
differentlI betwoen         further deompres
highest and lowest          selary structure.
paid.  Job evaluation       implementation prorm
of senior and junTor         p
postt In proroos.                         ot new
grading structur.
14,010 staff redeployed     Redeployment targets                                      Implementation of 1991
In 199 and 12 _In oet for 1991.                                                       redeploymt program
1990  Mngemnt               Preparatlon by                                            and tre ts  e  for
Services Division of        aovrnment of report                                       19. Further *xpanuton
OHCS carelos out job        analyzing imact of                                        of a     mnt reviews,
inspectton. and             redeplom ent progrI including closr links
management rv Iwso.         through 1990.                                             with udget Divson.
Average of i*,010 job       Agreement on additional
lnspectlon  being           *enament revlowe to
carried out par annum.       be lncluded in work
Two mnagneent revietw        proroo of MID.
carried out.
Note:  Underilned actions are conditio   of gecond trance release.



-56 -                             Annex  l
page lof 25
Performnce Under             --------------*on---Act-o  -Program----
Structur l Adjustment          Beooro                   Bfor                                 Btor*
Program 1987-19O               March li                may 1901                          March l2
8. Personncl nd             System of manpower           Approval of contract         su ficient oror t  on
PJ                           c o    mnameme ilings and other  for requirement. study  nota ion eo
F*iibillty study            measures to lnereao          for lnterated                     r
comploted for                control over                personnel/peyroll In
I ntgrated                  recruitment                  8000a=Wt *YOn                       o
personnol/payroll           established.                                              I p       n
managemnt system.                                                                     perforannC smoral
Covernment approval to                                                                setem thro
Install *yste.                                                                        civil servc e.
Payroll date lmproved                                                                 Preparation and
to provide more                                                                       Implementatlon of mrlt
Information on Staffing                                                               paY syst4m.
lovols. Pilot testing
of new performance
appralal ystem.
Nots: Underlined actions are conditions of second tranche release.



- 57 -                  Annex III
GHANA
PROGRAM TO PROMOTE PRIVATE INVESTMENT AND SUSTAINED DEVELOPMENT
SuoDlementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the program          8 months
(b)   Appraisal mission                          November 1990
(c)   Completion of negotiations                 March 1991
(d)   Planned date of effectiveness              July 1991
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to March 1992, or other agreed date, IDA will
review the Government's progress in implementing the program
(para. 81)
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Second Tranche Release (para. 82)
(i)   Changes in the tax structure have been introduced and
are reflected in the 1992 budget.
(ii)   Progress has been made in the revision of the legal
and regulatory framework governing private sector
activities, including the Investment Code, the
Exchange Control Act, the Manufacturing Industries
Act, the Industrial Relations Act, and the Labor
Decree.
(iii) Agreement with IDA on the 1992 allocation for
recurrent expenditure and the 1992-94 public
investment program.
(iv)    Implementation of measures to revise contract approval
procedures, including the role of Public Agreements
Board.
(v)    Progress in the implementation of the 1992 program of
pay reform for the Civil Service, including a revised
grading structure.
(vi)    Satisfactory progress on implementation of integrated
personnel/payroll management system.
(vii)    Satisfactory completion of the 1991 divestment program
and agreement on the 1992 divestment prugram.
(viii)    1992 performance agreements for 13 priority state-
owned enterprises finalized.



