                                               Documentof
                                             TheWorld Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                ReportNo: 39106-PA




                                           PROJECT PAPER


                                                   ONA


                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN


                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$6MILLION


                               TO THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA


                                                  FOR A


         PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                              April 16,2007




PovertyReductionandEconomic Sector Management
CentralAmerica CountryManagementUnit
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedbyrecipients only inthe performanceo f their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective April 16,2007)


              Currency Unit = Panamanian Balboa

                    1 Balboa = US$l
                      US$ 1 = 1Balboa

                      FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1    - December31




          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


I S N   Interim Strategy Note
AF      Additional Financing
CGR     Genera1Comptroller 0ffice
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment
DEC     Census and Statistics Directorate
DGCP    Public Procurement Directorate
IBRD    International Bank for ReconstructionAnd Development
ISR     Implementation Status Report
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
MEF     MinistryofEconomy andFinance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
UTPP    Public Policies Technical Unit
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
LSMS    LivingStandards Measurement Study
FTA     Free Trade Agreement
PER     Public Expenditure Review
PA      Poverty Assessment
D O     Development Objective
PEU     Project Executing Unit
UTPP    Public Policies Technical Unit
SOE     Statements of Expenditures
CEM     Country Economic Memorandum
ICA     Investment Climate Assessment

                                                              FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY
                D P L          Development Policy Loan
                GDP            Gross Domestic Product
                PEFA           International Indicator
                OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
                GFSM           Government Finance Statistical Manual
                IMF            International Monetary Fund
                BLI            Baseline Indicator




                                     Vice President: Pamela Cox
                          Country ManagedDirector Jane Annitage
                                     Sector Director Ernest0 M a y
                             Acting Sector Manager Fernando Rojas
                                 Task Team Leaders Josef Stig Trommer and Diomedes Berroa


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                     PANAMA
     PUBLIC POLICY REFORMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


A. INTRODUCTION ............................................................................................................... ..............-1-

B. BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALEFORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                 .....................     ;..... - 2 -
                                                                                                                                                 ......

C. PROPOSED CHANGES.      .................................................................................................................. -3-

D. CONSISTENCYWITH THE ISN                 ................................................................................................... - 7-

E. APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UPACTIVITIES..........                            .......................................................................      - 8 -

F. EXPECTED OUTCOMES          ...............................................................................................................         - 9 -

G. BENEFITSAND RISKS      ........................................................................................................... .....-10-

H. FINANCIALTERMS AND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING.                                                                        ....................-11-

I.ALLOCATIONOFPROCEEDSOFADDITIONALFINANCING...                                                          ........................................    - 11-

ANNEX 1:FIDUCIARYANALYSIS                .................................................................................................. - 12-


                                      PANAMA
       PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                          PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET

 Date: April 3, 2007                                      Team Leader: Josef S. Trommer
 Country: Panama                                          Sector Manager: Fernando Rojas
 Project Name: Public Policy ReformAdditional             Country Director: Jane Armitage
 Financing Loan                                           Environmental Category: C
 Proiect ID: P105526

 Responsible Agency: Office ofthe Permanent Secretary o f Finance. Ministryof Finance




 For Loans/Credits/Others:




1AND DEVELOPMENT
 Total:                                                        5.70I      1.40   I   7.10


A. Introduction

 1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide, under
 OP 13.20, an additional loan in the amount o f US$6 million to the Panama Public Policy
 Reform Technical Assistance Project (P055844), Loan 4635-PA.                             On behalf o f the
 Government o f Panama, the Minister o f Economy and Finance officially requested the
 Additional Financing (AF) ina letter dated September 26,2006.

 2.       The proposed additional loan would finance the cost o f activities to amplify the
 impact and development effectiveness o f this well-performing project. The additional
 activities would contribute to efforts to consolidate and deepen critical reforms needed to
 accelerate growth and reduce poverty in Panama. In particular, the additional financing
will enable the provision o f technical assistance to: (i) the Government's capacity
                                                                     expand
to monitor        economic       data,    improve macroeconomic policy formulation and
 implementation, and an upgraded financial management system for more efficient budget
 allocation decisions; (ii)    institutionalize the relevance, efficiency, and targeting o f social
programs by continuing to improve the quality o f poverty data; and (iii)                       scale-up the
 impact o f reforms strengthening efficiency and transparency in public management.
 These new activities would be fully consistent with the Development Objectives o f the
 ongoing Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project (4635-PA). At the request o f
the Government, the current project administration arrangements would be reassessed
with a view to providing more autonomy and accountability to the Controller General
 (CGR) and the National Directorate o f Public Procurement (DGCP) (with whom the
 Bank has a longstanding relationship through the existing Public Policy Reform
Technical Assistance Project).

 3.       Partnership arrangements. The proposed AF Loan does not envisage formal
partnership arrangements with other international financing agencies. However, it i s
designed to continue to complement the IDB's public sector reform program in Panama.
Both the Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project and the IDB' are providing
 support for the Government's initiatives to improve fiscal transparency and public
 financial management. The World Bank and the IDB have also been collaborating in the
preparation and sharing o f ESW; this cooperation was particularly evident in the joint
preparation o f the CFAA-CPAR.                   Furthermore, the Government o f Panama will
contribute US$l 1 million in counterpart funds, principally to finance investments in
                     .
goods and non-consultant services that are necessary for the success o f the Project but
have low economic returns.




~




   IDB's program to increase economic and fiscal management includes the following areas:(i) enhance the
MEF'splanning capacity; (ii)strengthen financial management; (iii) tax collection more efficient and
                                                                         make
effective; (iv) improve the quality o f public investment; (v) expand the management and oversight capacity
o f the customs administration; and (vi) strengthen the institutions o f the land-registry system.



                                                     - 1 -

B. Background and rationale for additionalfinancing

4.      Originalproject design. The Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
(4635-PA) was approved by the Board o f Directors on July 31, 2001, and became
effective on January 2, 2002. The total cost o f the project i s US$13.5 million, o f which
US$10.5 million was provided by the IBRD and US$3 million by the Government. The
project was designed to consolidate and deepen reforms needed to accelerate growth and
reduce poverty, by strengthening the Government's economic monitoring and planning,
policy formulation and execution capacity.       More specifically, the objectives o f the
project include: (i)to promote trade reform and liberalization; (ii)      to strengthen the
Government's economic monitoring, policy formulation, and execution capacity; (iii)      to
improve the quality o f poverty data and information on social expenditures aimed at
increasing the efficiency and targeting o f social programs; and (iv) to improve efficiency
and transparency in public procurement.         The project's original closing date was
December 31, 2004. After initial delays indeclaring the project effective (due to changes
in both Bank and Government personnel), project performance has steadily improved
since 2002.    In recognition o f this history, and coinciding with the change in the
Panamanian administration, a one-year extension was granted by the Bank in September
2004. This extension was granted while acknowledging the possibility o f a second
extension contingent on successful achievement o f implementation targets. Following
solid project performance, a second one-year extension was granted until December 31,
2006, with a final extension to April 30, 2007 to allow for preparation o f the proposed
new AF operation.

5.      Project performance to date. The project has been rated satisfactory for
achievement o f both Development Objectives and Implementation Performance since its
first PSR in December 2001. No financial covenants have been breached and the project
has not had any significant fiduciary problems. Notable project achievements to date
include: (i)improving the Government's capacity to successfully negotiate Free Trade
Agreements with Chile, Taiwan, a number o f Central American countries, and Singapore,
as well as recent negotiations for an FTA with the US; (ii)     helping to establish a new
information center on standards and technical regulations in the Ministry o f Trade; (iii)
providing hardware,      software,   and training to improve the quality o f basic
macroeconomic statistical data such as the Consumer Price Index and National Accounts
external data; and (iv) assisting in a successful nationwide LSMS survey completed in
December 2003.       This survey data has led to the publication o f Panama's Poverty
Evaluation, the updating o f the Poverty Map, and the preparation o f the Poverty Profile
(an important input for the Bank's recently completed Poverty Assessment). In addition,
the project has helped to substantially develop the public procurement legal framework
(which led to the passage o f a new law), build the institutional capacity of the General
Directorate o f Public Procurement, and facilitate both the introduction o f a public
procurement system and the successful launch o f an e-procurement strategy.

6.      Rationale and reasons for requesting the AF. After careful consideration,
additional financing has been identified as the most effective instrument to preserve and
capitalize on the existing project's momentum and achievements, pending the preparation



                                            - 2 -

o f a new Panama Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and lending program. In addition,
an AF will provide the Bank with a timely opportunity to assist the Government in
implementinga series o f far-reaching reforms that have only recently crystallized and
that need to be fully introduced before the Government's term ends in less than two
years.

7.      The proposed AF will contribute to the definition and preparation o f a series o f
public sector reforms (embraced by the recently completed CFAA-CPAR, PER and PA)
whose successful implementation would have a substantial fiscal impact on budget
management, fiduciary oversight, and transparency. More specifically, the AF activities
would contribute to: (i)  increase the Government's capacity to formulate policies that
stimulate economic growth and fiscal sustainability; (ii)an increase in the targeting and
effectiveness o f social programs; and (iii)improvements in the overall fiduciary
framework inthe areas o f financial management and public procurement.


C. ProposedChanges

8.      Proposed AF Project. Consistent with the Government's strategic plan (Visidn
Estratigica de Desarrollo Econdmico y de Empleo Hacia 2009) to reform and modernize
the state, in September 2006 the Government requested a US$6 million Additional
Financing for new activities to amplify the impact and development effectiveness o f the
ongoing Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project (with Government co-
financing o f US$l.lmillion). In this context, no changes are proposed for the existing
DOs.

9.      The activities to be financed under the proposed AF are envisaged to be
implemented over a period o f 30 months. This extended period will allow for full
implementation o f the AF considering the historically slow record o f implementation in
Panama. The AF would extend activities under four o f the five existing components o f
the ongoing Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project. These are: (i)  contribute
to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency by expanding the Government's
capacity to monitor economic data and improve macroeconomic policy reform
formulation; (ii) improve social spending and reducing poverty by institutionalizing the
relevance, efficiency, and targeting o f social programs through better quality poverty
data; (iii)
          strengthen the public procurement system by intensifyingthe impact of reforms
affecting efficiency and transparency in public management;            and (iv) project
management. A more detailed description o f the additional activities to be undertaken
follows.

Project Component A: Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector Efficiency

10.     The objective of this component i s to support pillar I1 o f the Government's
strategic plan: to promote economic growth and employment. It will do so by continuing
to improve the quality and timeliness o f statistical data and by strengthening the




                                          - 3 -

institutional capacity o f the Government to analyze, design, and implement strategies to
stimulate economic growth and fiscal sustainability.

11.     Sub-component-AI: Strengthen the ability to analyze, design and implement
growth and fiscal strategies. This sub-component will strengthen the institutional
capacity o f the MEF Minister's Office (Despacho Superior) to: (i)provide technical
advice on policies aimed at fostering economic growth and employment (pillar I1o f the
Government's strategic plan); and (ii)  improve fiscal reporting systems and documents in
line with international practice. Activities in this sub-component will include: technical
assistance to create a more favorable investment climate, monitor macroeconomic
performance and enhance fiscal transparency.

12.     Sub-component-A2: Building institutional capacity of the CGR. This sub-
component i s geared to assist the CGR in establishing stronger financial controls, thereby
institutinggreater transparency and accuracy inpublic financial management. Activities
within this sub-component include:            (i)strengthening institutional capacity and
modernizing practices for risk-based fiscal control (fiscalizacidn), as well as government
accounting in conjunction with the Ministry o f Finance, financial and compliance
auditing, and financial accountability models and requirements; and (ii)    developing and
implementing public fiscal management training programs primarily for CGR staff, but
also suitable for other public sector entities.

13.     Sub-component-A3: Strengthening DEC's operational capacity. This sub-
component will support the improved efficiency o f the Census and Statistics Directorate
(DEC) through: (i)   technical assistance to further improve the calculation methodologies
for selective macroeconomic indicators - including National Accounts and Consumer
Price Index; and (ii)  modernization o f DEC's structure and functions and the update o f
computer equipment and software necessary for day-to-day operations.

Project Component B: Social Spending and Poverty Reduction

14.      The Government i s fblly committed to reducing inefficiencies and inequities in
social spending, as highlighted in pillar Io f the Government's strategic plan (reduce
poverty and income inequality). The proposed AF will provide tools to monitor and
evaluate poverty inPanama and specific related interventions.

15.     Sub-component-Bl: Conduct a third Living Standards Measurement Survey
(LSMS). A central' component o f the AF will be the implementation o f a third Living
Standards Measurement Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida, ENI-2008). This
survey would allow for updating o f key indicators o f poverty and living conditions,
which are central to poverty monitoring.

16.     Sub-component-B2:       Conduct assessments to evaluate the impact of the
Government poverty reduction efforts. Poverty maps and other tools produced from
survey data will form the basis for a sub-component specifically designed to evaluate the




                                              - 4 -

targeting and efficiency o f Government poverty-reduction efforts such as the conditional
cash transfer program (Red deproteccibn Social).

ProjectComponentC: Public ProcurementSystem

17.     Pillar I11o f the Government's strategic plan states a commitment to public sector
reforms inpublic procurement aimed at streamlining procedures and reducing transaction
costs, under adequate fiduciary safeguards. Activities under the AF will deepen efforts
already undertaken inthis area by the Government.

18.     Sub-component-Cl:      Build institutional capacity for DGCP.           This sub-
component i s geared to assist the DGCP inmaking the public procurement process more
manageable and less costly (in the context o f a new procurement law). Activities within
this sub-component include: (i)     developing standardized procurement procedures and
biddingdocuments for all public sector entities subject to new Procurement Law No. 22;
(ii)strengthening institutional capacity and modernization o f the DGCP and Government
agencies' procurement unitsto effectively conduct their duties (as prescribedby Law No.
22) in areas such as legal advice and e-procurement systems; (iii)implementing a
comprehensive human resource assessment and training program for procurement
officials to prepare them to enact the new procurement law; and (iv) carrying-out an
information campaign promoting initiatives to increase transparency in the public
procurement.

19.     Sub-component-C2: Improve the public procurement legal framework. Given
the congressional passage o f the Procurement Law (No. 22) in June 2006, this sub-
component will support efforts to further strengthen the new legislation including
technical assistance on the interpretation and application o f the changed regulatory
framework.

20.     Sub-component-C3: Enhance the public procurement information system.
This sub-component will support improvements in accuracy and speed o f the
Government's Electronic Public Procurement Information System - PanamciCompra --
where 90 percent o f public procurement offices already publish their activities. The
project will finance technical assistance, training, equipment, and software to further
modernize this e-procurement system in order to further reduce the average unit cost o f
keypublicly-procured goods.

21.     Project ComponentD: Project Management. This component will finance the
provision o f technical assistance, equipment, training, and operating costs (as necessary)
to establish, operate, and strengthen the PCU and PEUs. Additional funding will enable
these units to more effectively coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the implementation o f
project activities (including periodic audits).




                                             - 5 -

                Allocation Additional Financing Resources by Component



                    Component




 CI- Build institutional capacity of the DGCP        0.59          100%           0.59
 C2- Improving thepublicprocurement legal            0.05          100%           0.05
framework
C3- Enhancing thepublicprocurement system            0.36          100%           0.36
D.ProiectManagement
                 "                                   0.75          100%           0.75
DI -MEF- UTPP                                        0.25          100%           0.25
D1- CGR                                              0.25          100%           0.25
DI -DGCP                                             0.25          100%           0.25
                             TOTAL                   7.10          85%            6.00


22.      The AF will be implemented according to provisions defined in the Loan
Agreement, which include the Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines dated May
2004 and revised in October 2006. Prior review thresholds will remain unchanged. In
addition, procurement post review work will be carried out jointly with Financial
Management supervision work undertakenat least annually.

23.     Project administration arrangements under proposed AF: At the request o f the
Government, the current project administration arrangements would be modified with a
view to providing more autonomy and accountability to the CGR and DGCP for the
activities under their responsibilities (see below). This new arrangement would improve
the efficiency of project implementation and provide capacity-building benefits to these
institutions.

24.     Project Coordination.          MEF's Public Policies Technical Unit (UTPP) will
maintain the Project's Coordination Unit (PCU) created under the Public Policy Reform
Technical Assistance Project. (Note that the UTTP also administers other public sector
modernizationprojects financed by the IDB). The PCU's role will include overall project
coordination as well as consolidation of the project's financial management,
procurement, and auditing reports. Specifically, the key responsibilities to be undertaken
by the PCU will include: (i)consolidation and submission o f the project's annual
procurement plan; (ii)consolidation and submission o f financial management reports;


                                             - 6 -

and (iii)contracting o f annual external auditing services in accordance with Bank
procedures.

25.     Project Execution.       Day-to-day activities within each component or sub-
component will be executed by each Government agency through Project Executing
Units (PEU) which will be organized within each o f the three participating agencies (i-e.,
MEF-UTPP, CGR and DGCP). Specifically, the CGR will be responsible for activities
under sub-components A 2 and A3, MEF-UTPP for activities under sub-component Al,
and component B; and DGCP for component C. As i s the case for the MEF-UTPP, the
PEUs will be embedded in the CGR and DGCP as part o f each institution's permanent
functions. These PEUs will usually have three staff positions (a Project Coordinator, a
Financial Management Specialist, and a Procurement Specialist) preferable occupied by
qualified civil servants. In addition, each unit will be equipped with accredited staff
acceptable to the Bank to handle financial management and procurement processes. The
main responsibilities o f the Executing Units would include: (i)preparing the
componenthubcomponent annual procurement plan; (ii)conducting procurement
processes according to Bank procedures and signing contracts on behalf o f the
Government; (iii)administrating designated accounts; (iv) implementing project
activities; (v) monitoring results indicators and preparing semi-annual progress reports;
and (vi) maintaining financial records and files for audit purposes.

26.     Flow of funds. Disbursements will be transaction-based and will be made on the
basis o f Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs); the preparation o f SOEs will be the
responsibility o f each one o f the three PEUs with clearance from MEF. The UTPP will
maintain records and accounts that adequately reflect the loan's resources and
expenditures. The CGR and DGCP will maintain their own records, but will provide the
relevant information to the UTPP for financial statement consolidation purposes. For
those AF activities executed by MEF-UTPP, the Bank will disburse to a fiduciary agent
the agreed upon advances, and in exchange the fiduciary agent will provide timely
financial reports on expenditures that will be submitted to the Bank together with the
applications for disbursements. For those AF activities executed by the CGR and DGCP,
once their PEU's have received adequate training in Bank fiduciary and disbursements
procedures, they will independently manage their flow o f funds. In this capacity these
PEUs will be responsible for usingand reconciling the Designated Accounts, and control
o f advances and recoveries (justifications), including the preparation o f Statements o f
Expenditure (SOEs).


D. Consistencywith the ISN

27.     The proposed AF i s consistent with the 2005 Panama Interim Strategy Note
(ISN). Using the Government's strategic plan as the client-driven framework, the ISN
encourages support for public policy reforms in areas such as public sector efficiency,
trade, competition, poverty alleviation, and governance. The ISN kicked-off with ESW
in the following areas: CFANCPAR, PER, PA, and CEMACA (currently under
preparation). The proposed AF builds on the recommendations o f these analytical pieces



                                            - 7 -

and contributes to the consolidation and deepening o f critical Government reforms to
accelerate growth and reduce poverty. The Bank's future assistance to Panama (in the
context o f a new CPS) contemplates a possible DPL series, for which the AF could be
instrumental.    In this scenario, the AF would deepen on-going work to help the
Government advance its agenda in areas such as investment climate and public sector
efficiency that would serve as the basis for the DPLs.


E. Appraisalof Scaled-upActivities

28.     Economic and financial analyses. As with the Public Policy Reform Technical
Assistance Project, many o f the expected benefits derived from the proposed AF loan are
difficult to quantify in tangible economic and financial benefits.      These additional
activities are expected to yield substantial benefits by consolidating and deepening
critical reforms aimed at accelerating growth and reducing poverty in Panama. These
reforms (prescribed by the recently completed CFAA-CPAR, PER, and PA) would have
a significant fiscal impact on the critical areas o f budget management, fiduciary
oversight, and transparency. More specifically, the AF components are expected to:

29.     Contribute tofiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency. This component
will support reforms that address structural weaknesses in the public sector such as a
problem in the quality and timeliness o f macroeconomic data, as well as a lack of ability
to analyze, design, and implement strategies to stimulate economic growth and fiscal
sustainability.

30.     Improve social spending andpoverty reduction. The AF will support this goal by
providing tools for monitoring and evaluating poverty, developing criteria to improve the
targeting o f social spending and poverty reduction programs, and institutionalizing the
appropriate mechanisms to measure Panama's living standards through a third survey for
year 2008. The survey will function as a data tool to reduce inefficiencies and inequities
inpublic social spending thereby allowing the delivery o f focused social programs to the
poor (e.g. a conditional cash transfer program).

3 1,    Strengthen public procurement system. The new procurement law (No. 22) i s
expected to render the procurement process more transparent, more manageable, and less
costly. This component will support the implementation o f the new law by building
capacity in procuring agencies (including the DGCP), improving the public procurement
legal framework, and further advancing the development o f Panama's e-procurement
system. Preliminary estimates suggest that, with assistance f?om the ongoing Public
Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project, the DGCP average response time for
procurement dropped from 90 days in August 2005 to 30 days inMay 2006. The AF will
strive to hrther reduce the DGCP response time for the procurement process.

32.     Technical Analysis. Technical activities were developed through a series o f on-
site identification missions by Bank technical experts (e.g. procurement, financial
management, competitiveness) and their counterparts inPanama. This rigorous approach



                                            - 8 -

has ensured the viability and compliance o f these activities with both the Bank's ESW-
based recommendations and the Government's strategic vision. Inaddition, our ESW has
provided a solid understanding o f the relevant issues and has led to strong technical
justification   in the    identification o f the additional   activities. For example,
recommendations from the CFFNCPAR served as the basis for identifying and defining
specific activities under the public procurement component. Furthermore, the technical
viability o f the proposed AF has been demonstrated by the solid.performanceand results
derived from the ongoing Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project.
Furthermore, the technical performance o f specific activities will be ensured through
close follow-up by Bank specialists during project implementation. Furthermore, the
design o f each component has been limitedto achieving straightforward objectives.

33.     Institutional Analysis.       Even with the modifications in administration
arrangements for the AF, we foresee limited institutional risks with the proposed
activities. The new implementing agencies o f the AF (CGR and DGCP) are the prime
fiduciary agencies o f the Government and have already demonstrated their capacity under
the ongoing Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project as direct beneficiaries o f
technical assistance, training, and goods. Through this longstandingrelationship we have
had ample opportunity to asses their capabilities and are confident that, with the
appropriate training, the CGR and DGCP will successfully implement their own
activities.

34.     Fiduciary Analysis.       The Bank's Financial Management and Procurement
performance o f the original project has been satisfactory.    However, although MEF-
UTPP performance implementing Bank financed projects, the incremental entities
involved, CGR and DGCP lack experience o f independently managing Bank projects.
Accordingly, a fiduciary and capacity assessment o f the CGR and DGCP was undertaken
by the Bank for this proposed additional financing. The fiduciary and capacity
assessment concluded that the CGR and DGCP have the resources, skills and institutional
capacity to manage adequately the proposed project's finances upon completion o f
recommendations set forth inAnnex 1.



F. ExpectedOutcomes

35.     New activities will contribute to meeting existing development objectives and
outcomes. The following include additional outcomes to be expected from the new
activities:




                                            - 9 -

             Outcome                             Outcome Indicator               Data collection Strategy

DO: Strengthen the Government`s ec tomicmonitoring,policy formulation, !ndexecution capacity
Expand the Government's capacity to
                              . .        New or improved macroeconomic           DEC and MEF statistical
mo-nitor economic data and improve       indicators (e.g., quarterly GDP-        publications
macro and fiscal policy formulation      expenditure, and GDP at the             CEM/ICA
                                         provincial level) published ina more
                                         user-friendlyweb-page



                                         Improve the content o fbudgetary and    Budgetary and fiscal
                                         fiscal data inline with international   published data shows
                                         best practices by end-2009'             improvement when
                                                                                 measured against
                                                                                 international indicators
                                                                                 (PEFA, 2005)

DO: Improve the quality ofpoverty data and information on social expenditures to increase the efpciency

                                                                                 DEC and MEF statistical
                                                                                 publications
and targeting o f social programs        programs (reflected in2010 budget
                                         allocation)                             Poverty Assessment


Strengthen public transparency by        OECD baseline indicator (BLIs)~         OECD baseline-line
scaling-up the impact o f reforms        scores improve from 2006 baseline       indicators
affecting public procurement             (next BLIsplanned for 2008 to
                                         measure progress).

                                         Improvedperception o f transparency     Private sector perception
                                         and efficiency inPanama's public        surveys
                                         procurement system (private sector
                                         surveys will be repeated in2008 to
                                         measure progress).

                                       I                                        I




G. Benefitsandrisks

36.       There are several anticipated benefits associated with the project. First, with
improved tools to monitor economic activity and in-depth knowledge o f key issues affecting
growth, the authorities will be better equipped to formulate macro and fiscal policy in support o f


  Increase use o f the code of good practices on fiscal transparency (IMF, 2005) and adoption o f a plan to
migrate to the Government Finance Statistical Manual (GFSM)2001,
  The BIS was developed by the OECD-DAC World Bank Joint-Venture on Procurement. This tool has
several purposes: (i)  ensure consistent diagnostics by all donors; (ii) formulate strategies to strengthen
                                                                       help
systems; (ii)  enable self-assessment and monitoring; (iii)monitor progress periodicaliy against agreed
benchmarks; and (iv) measure progress inmeetingthe Paris Declarationgoals.



                                                     - 10-

their strategic vision.   Second, through the use of updated poverty data and analysis the
authorities will be able to enhance the relevance, efficiency, and targeting of social programs.
And, third, a strengthened public procurement system will contribute to building general
confidence inthe efficiency and transparency o fthe public sector.

37.      The additional activities might encounter the following risks:

                    Risk                     Risk             RiskMitigationMeasure
                                            Rating

                                                      A Project Steering Committeewill be
 and DGCP) will be responsible for                    createdto include all three Government
 executing the project's components,                  agencies inorder to ensure a common
 which could weaken project integration               vision and support for the project and its
 and could leadto unevenprogress among                objectives.
 components.
 Proximity of elections (May 2009) and a  I    S      Reforms (promoting investment climate
 traditionbf early political campaign                 public sector efficiency) and actions
 could lead to lost momentum for reforms              supported by this AF are also endorsedby
 supported by the project.                            the DPL scheduled for FY08.
 To comDonent result
 Lack of experience o f the CGR and           M       Specific actionplan and technical
 DGCP inmanaging projects o f this type               assistancewill be providedto strengthen
 could negatively affect project                      especially the fiduciary capacity of the
 implementation and sustainability.                   CGR and DGCP.


H. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor additionalfinancing

38.      The Government of Panama has selected a Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) in U.S.
Dollars with a repayment schedule linked to commitments and with all the conversion
options, including automatic rate fixing (ARF) every six months, and choosing to
maintain a variable interest rate, consisting o f USD six month LIBOR + 50 basis points.


I.AllocationofProceedsofAdditionalFinancing

              Allocation of Proceeds of Additional Financing by Category
                                      (InUS$ million)

                                             Bank Financing            Government Financing
Goods and No-Consultant Services                    0.7                           1.1
Consultant Services                                 4.6                            --
Training                                            0.4                            --
Unallocated                                         0.3                            _ _
                  TOTAL                             6.0                           1.1



                                             - 11-

                                          ANNEX 1
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ASSESMENT


In summary, the fiduciary aspects o f the project will be carried out by MEF-UTPP (for
parts A 1 and B of the project), DGCP (for part C o f the project), and CGR (for parts A 2
and A3 o f the project).

While MEF-UTPP has experience managing externally-financed project (the unit i s
currently managing the Public Reform Technical Assistance project, 4635-PA) for which
it has inplace a basic administrative structure and systems (to be used for the additional
financing), the CGR and DGCP have relatively little such experience, In this context, a
fiduciary capacity assessment o f CGR and DGCP was carried out from March 28 to 29,
2007, with the following conclusions and recommendations:

MEF-UTPP has performed its financial management function satisfactorily under the
Public Reform Technical Assistance project, positioning it to manage the fiduciary
aspects o f the additional financing for components A 1 and B o f the project. It should be
noted that MEF-UTTP will use a Fiduciary Agent (through a competitive bidding
process) to enter into contracts and make payments. Therefore, as with the previous
project, Bank funds will be disbursed directly into the designated Fiduciary Agent's
account to be used exclusively for eligible expenditures under the additional financing.

Since DGCP i s a relatively new entity (operational as o f the beginning o f 2007), it has a
basic structure in place for financial management and is inthe process o f implementing a
Financial Management System (part o f the national system) to monitor the Project
activities.   (Note that a basic manual system is already available.)              For the
implementation o f additional financing, DGCP will be required to carry out the agreed
Financial Management action plan. CGR was found to have adequate existing capacity
to manage the Project activities and will utilize SIAFPA to monitor specific activities.
To mitigate FM risk, training in Bank operations will be provided to both DGCP and
CGR by the time the additional financing becomes effective.

                        DGCP FinancialManagementAction Plan

                       Actions                        Responsible         Completion
                                                         Entity                Date
   1. DGCP to fine-tune the chart o f account and     DGCP/CGR          May 31,2007
  to incorporate the additional financing into it
  (with the help o f CGR).
  2. Adjust the FMmanual for the unit, as well        DGCP/CGR          May 31,2007
  as the additional financing (with the help o f
  CGR).
  3. DGCP to adjust implementationo f                    DGCP           June 30,2007
  Financial Management system for the
  additional financing (e.g. chart o f accounts).


                                            - 12-

4. DGCP to hire/contractboth a Project              DGCP        June 30,2007
Manager and Procurement Specialist
5. Provide training on Bank procedures to         WorldBank     By
DGCP and CGR.                                                   effectiveness
6. Fine-tune the format o fun-audited financial  DGCP/MEF/CGR   By
reports (IFRs).                                                 effectiveness
7. Adjust audit TORS.                            DGCP/MEF/CGR   By
                                                                effectiveness
8. DGCP to open a segregated Designated             DGCP        BY
Account to receive Bank funds.                                  effectiveness
9. Contract external auditors, based on a short  DGCP/MEF/CGR   3-months after
list satisfactory to the Bank.                                 1effectiveness




                                         - i 3 -


