Report No. PID10082
Project Name                     Panama-Public Policy Reform TA
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Public Enterprise Reform
Project ID                       PAPE55844
Borrower(s)                      REPUBLICA DE PANAMA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PLANNING & ECON. POLICY
Via Espana y Calle 52 Este, Edificio Ogawa,
Piso 4, Apartado 2694, Zona
3, Panama, Rep. de Panama
Contact Person: Enelda M. Gonzalez
Tel: (507)263-4331
Fax: (507) 264-2620
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 19, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 20, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The Government's Public Policy Reform Program is extremely ambitious, and
includes reforms in the areas of (i) external trade, (ii) the civil
service, (iii) social security, (iv) the tax structure, (v) privatization,
(vi) domestic competition, (vi) financial sector, and (viii) the foreign
investment regime. It also includes a comprehensive Poverty Reduction
Strategy an Action Plan, developed with the Bank in the course of a joint
Poverty Assessment exercise The Poverty Strategy and Action Plan (Nuevo
Enfocque Estrategico Frente a la Pobreza) was signed as Cabinet Resolution
No. 134 on September 17, 1998.. (See Annex A: Letter of Development
Policy, and Annex B: Supplemental Letter: 1999 Action Plan for Poverty
Reduction)The Public Policy Reform Program to which this project is
providing technical assistance, will focus on the implementation of
structural reforms needed to reducing poverty and inequality by: (i)
increasing efficiency, improving resource allocation and raising output
and employment; (ii) directly increasing real income; and (iii) by
generating additional income for targeted poverty interventions. The
Government has initiated several reforms with results are expected to
achieve the above objectives. But, the agenda of reform is still partially
implemented: Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy
Reform. To further support liberalization of trade and investment, and
deregulation measures, the Assembly approved in 1996 the Competition Law
No. 29, which: abolished the Price Control Office; created the Competition
and Consumer Affairs Commission (CLICAC); instituted regulations on
competition policy, consumer protection; and introduced anti-dumping and
countervailing provisions in line with WTO standards. a specific
competition law was enacted in 1996, which was shortly followed by the
creation of a dedicated agency to implement and enforce it. Despite these
developments, there is an alleged lack of a competition culture and it
appears that various anti competitive business arrangements are prevalent.



Furthermore, the framework for competition and consumer protection in
Panama is still incomplete and there is a general lack of understanding of
the principles and best practices in these areas. Competition also is
experiencing distortions due to a number of regulations granting
unnecessary exclusive concessions, permits and administrative approvals
and requirements, which have provided commercial advantages to incumbent
firms. Some importers and foreign firms have avoided competition through
price-fixing and market-sharing agreements. In certain sectors (i.e,
retail trade, agro production, and food), some firms have abused their
dominant position through, arguably, predatory, discrimination, and
foreclosure of market opportunities for smaller or more efficient
competitors.   To overcome these limitations, a strategy to implement Law
29 is essential. This strategy should focus on three goals. First, improve
regulatory and enforcement capabilities of CLICAC. Second, develop a
policy strategy to make the law operational, including institutional
arrangements, assistance of a resident advisor, and adequate selection and
training of staff. Third, develop a competition culture through public
communication and corporate compliance programs and by ensuring effective
development of competition advocacy capacity.    To this extent and under
the PPF, the Government enacted in September, 1998 the Executive Decree
No. 31 of Law 29's Title I, defining the nature of monopolistic practices,
and establishing basic principles for the assessment of economic
efficiency, definition of relevant markets and barriers to entry,
informational and methodology requirements for reviewing mergers and
acquisitions and key aspects of due process in the application of the
law.   Currently, the Government through a PPF is preparing regulations
on Titles II, III, IV and V of Law 29 on consumer protection and trade
remedies. With these regulations, the Government expects to complete the
process of implementation of Law 29 and strengthening CICLAC's
institutional capacity . These measures will contribute towards changing
the behavior patterns of economic agents in a systematic fashion.Public
Management Systems and Civil Service Reform . The Government has
recognized that most management systems dealing with the public
administration, including organizational structures, integrated financial
management, procurement, human resources and salaries are extremely
deficient. Institutional capacity deficits have been found at both
centralized and decentralized organizations, in every aspect of
management, including methodologies and technical instruments,
computerized support systems, substantive normative frameworks, rules and
procedures, institutional arrangements, human resources with required
background and personnel training.Regarding the management of
organizational structures, information on the formal structure of public
institutions is either insufficiently or not readily available. Similar
weaknesses are found with regard to classification and valuation of
organizational units. Except for legal formalities, no technical
evaluation and approval of draft organizational structures is conducted.
Activities are neither aimed at resizing and redesigning personnel size
nor carrying out the distribution. A somewhat better situation can be
observed in job classification tasks and the administration of manuals,
but further efforts are needed regarding improving computerized systems,
rules and procedures, institutional arrangements, and training of the
personnel.With regard to Civil Service Reform, in 1996, the employment
conditions of 59% of state employees were determined by 100 different
special laws. These employees received 72% of the total wage bill, and
their average wage was US$8,430. The average wage of employees not
-2 -



covered by special wage laws was US$4,750. Between 1991 and 1996, the
average salary of employees covered by special laws rose 25.4% (18.4% in
real terms) due to the automatic salary adjustment provisions of these
laws.  Also, the number of such employees increased 16%. In contrast, the
average salary of employees not benefiting from special laws rose 8%
during this period, or 1% in real terms. The number of these employees
declined more than 5%.Consolidation of fiscal balance hinges on bringing
the growth of the public sector wage bill under effective Government
control. Achieving this and increasing the efficiency of the public
sector require a comprehensive reform of public sector labor legislation.
To this end, the Government drafted, with support from the ERL TA
component, a General Public Sector Wage Law, which would replace the
plethora of special labor laws, and introduce a merit-based civil service
throughout the public sector. While the proposed law has some commendable
features, it does not do enough to restrain the growth of the Government's
wage bill. An important weakness is that it provide for a mechanistic
approach to salary determination without reference to salaries paid in the
wider labor market. Since public sector salaries are already reported to
be higher than those in the private sector, his omission can be expected
to prove costly. Furthermore, it proposes instruments of decision-making
which would dilute the accountability of managers. Fortunately, this draft
law has not been approved yet by the legislature, and is unlikely to be
approved before the May 1999 elections. At the same time, Panama has a
Civil Service Law which has not yet been implemented. This Law, approved
in 1994 before the current Administration came into power, also has
numerous shortcomings that need to be addressed, among them additional
rigidities in the hiring, firing, reassignment and promotion of civil
servants, centralizing all such decisions in the Civil Service
Directorate. The Government is proposing to go forward with reforms aimed
at improving the efficiency of the public sector and rationalizing the
salary structure and would like the TAL to provide support for completing
and implementing a General Public Sector Wage Law, revising and
implementing the Civil Service Law, and strengthen the technical capacity
of the Civil Service Directorate.No centralized registry of personnel
exists, one that could provide policy makers with information useful for
efficient human resource management and budgeting. Furthermore, the
institutional arrangements governing recruitment, testing, and selection
of new personnel, promotions and transfers, performance evaluations,
training and personnel management are weak and in need of wide-reaching
reform. The government now seeks to overcome these weaknesses by designing
and implementing a number of OHR technologies, supported by computerized
systems, institutional reorganization efforts and training.Social Security
Reform. (gradual process) The Government recognizes the need to build
the capacity of SIACAP as a first step in the development of a general
second-pillar of pension protection accessible to public employees in a
first phase, and to both private and public employees in a second phase.
The second generation of social security reforms will allow a smooth
transition from a rather liberal CSS pension scheme to a sustainable basic
protection scheme, addressing perverse distortions in the present pension
formula.In February 1997, the Assembly approved Law No. 8, creating the
Pension Fund for Public Employees (SIACAP), with the support of the ERL.
With the creation of the SIACAP, which replaces the insolvent state
Complementary Pension Fund (CPF), CPF-generated deficits will disappear
over time (current beneficiaries of the liquidated CPF retain their
benefits). In 1996, this deficit amounted to about 0.7% of GDP, and would
-3 -



have grown progressively, to the detriment of fiscal sustainability. In
addition, the CPF was highly regressive, providing the 59t of state
employees covered by special labor regimes with extremely generous
pensions upon early retirement. The SIACAP is a supplementary, private,
individually-financed pension scheme, and will be regulated by an
Administrative Council. Implementation of the SIACAP will not only
strengthen public sector finances, but improve the equity of social
expenditures, foster savings and capital market development, and promote
development of a second-tier pension system.The SIACAP regulations were
promulgated in June 1997; however, a number of the provisions, needed
improvement. The SIACAP Administrative Council proposed a number of
amendments to the regulations (with input from the Bank), related to the
composition of the Administrative Council and the Risk Evaluation
Commission, prudential norms on investments, and restrictions on the
diversification of eligible instruments and issuing entities. The
approved PPRAL supported implementation of the SIACAP and the Borrower's
Executive Decree No. 32, dated July 6, 1998, issued to support social
security reform activities of SIACAP. The Government strategy in this area
consists of gradually phasing-in the required adjustments due to the
political sensitivity of rather popular entitlement programs, restoring
transparency to the pension system and functionally isolating the pension,
health and employment injury schemes to avoid cross-subsidization among
the programs and improve operational/managerial efficiency. The Government
with the IDB technical assistance is proposing to support building
institutional capacity of the SIACAP Administrative Council by reviewing
SIACAP bylaws, related operating guidelines, and investment procedures,
preparing actuarial/financial annuity tables, designing a second
generation of social security reforms focused on a multi-pillar schemes
and extension of SIACAP jurisdiction over the private sector
(encompassing Law 10, 1993). The latter are essential because the social
security system proper has a benefit structure that would require a
significant increase in mean rate of contribution to ensure its long term
solvency. The Government asked the Bank to co-finance the SIACAP public
information campaign and strengthening of CSS capacityTax Reform.
(revision) In July 1995, the Legislative Assembly approved the Fiscal
Incentives Harmonization Law (prepared with the support of the ERL TA
component), which significantly reduced distortions and allocation
inefficiencies caused by the tax system. In July 1996, the Assembly
amended the Fiscal Incentives Harmonization Law, eliminating the income
tax on Col6n Free Zone activities. Consolidation of long-term fiscal
sustainability and an enabling macroeconomic framework may also require
additional measures to rationalize and broaden the tax system. For
instance, all services are still exempt from the value added tax. To this
end, the Government plans to close a number of tax loopholes and limit
certain tax deductions in the agricultural and tourism sectors, with the
support of the IMF EFF. In addition, the Government has contracted the
Inter American Center of Tax Administration (CIAT), located in Panama, to
prepare an extensive review the tax system and intent to implement
additional tax measures after the May 1999 elections. The Bank will
assist the government preparing such legislation. Trade Reform.
(unfinished) The Government, which inherited the most highly distorted
trade regime in the region, has made a radical trade reform one of the
cornerstones of its economic program. Prior to the implementation of the
ERL, nominal ad valorem equivalent rates of protection ranged from nil for
capital and most intermediate goods, to 90t for final manufactured goods
-4 -



and as high as 800w for basic grains. As late as 1996, quotas and other
non-tariff barriers were still used extensively, especially to protect
domestic producers of foodstuffs. As a result, domestic prices of
foodstuffs and other consumer non-durables remain generally much higher
than international prices, whereas the prices of consumer durables are
similar to international prices. In December 1996 and March 1997, the
Cabinet issued a series of decrees which: (i) reduced tariffs on all
industrial and agro-industrial products from 60t and 90w, to 40t and 50w,
respectively; (ii) reduced tariffs on the main agricultural commodities
from a range of   50-180t to 20-60%; (iii) transformed remaining specific
tariffs into ad valorem ones; and (iv) eliminated remaining non-tariff
barriers to imports. In July 1997, the Legislative Assembly approved the
WTO Protocol and associated laws and the Government initiated its second
round of tariff reductions, by issuing Cabinet Decree No. 37 which lowered
the maximum import tariff on construction materials, vegetable oils, and
wheat and wheat products, from 20-50% to 10%, beginning September 1. On
November 12, 1997, the Government issued Cabinet Decree No. 68 which will
reduce all other import tariffs to a maximum of 15% beginning January 1,
1998, and consolidate the number of tariffs, currently 108, into 5 rates
(159, 10%, 59, 3% and 0%), with the exception of automobiles, whose
tariffs will remain in the range of 15-20%; milk products (lowered from
50% to 40%) and rice (lowered from 60% to 509). The tariff on rice will be
lowered to 30% by the year 2000. On this basis, Panama would have
instituted one of the most open economies in the region within in the
short span of twelve months, and would have the lowest average effective
protection for agricultural products of any country in the LAC region.The
government of Panama is now addressing the implications of having approved
the WTO Protocol and associated laws, and has decided to prepare
implementing regulations of all WTO-related legislation, including (i)
fito and zoo sanitary norms and (ii) operating procedures for a "one stop"
import office. Additionally, the Government is facing the need of regional
integration and has requested the Bank technical assistance to deal with
on going negotiations, particularly, the FTAA, Andean Community, Mexico,
and Chile. Transport Sector Reform. (inefficient) While port sector
reforms and privatization have reduced maritime shipping costs to
international levels, a preliminary survey reveals that the rest of the
sector is beset with distortions and highly fragmented legal
responsibility for regulating the transport sector. Domestic surface
freight transportation is unregulated, with the exception of Law No. 10
(1989), which stipulates norms for weights and measures (which are to be
determined and enforced by no less than 5 different state entities). In
this context, powerful regional cooperatives have emerged and de facto
limit entry and competition in domestic freight transportation. This
market power not only has created substantial rents for cooperative
members, but led to the prevalence of empty returns (because members from
one regional cooperative prevent members from another from unloading any
cargo in "their" region). . In February 1998, the Government removed some
restrictions on Central American truckers, and approved legislation to
remove remaining barriers to competition but domestic freight transport
costs are still inflated by restrictions affecting the hauling of cargo
between the Panama's free zone and the ports of Balboa and Colon
(cooperative monopoly with "pases" is more evident in the later case), and
Central America. Unlike trucking, the legal framework for surface
passenger transportation, both intra- and inter-urban, is clearly
defined. However, Law 14, Executive Decree No. 186, and Resolution No.
- 5-



29, all promulgated in 1993 under the previous Administration, severely
limit competition in public passenger transportation. This legislation
stipulates that the awarding of route concessions, the number of vehicles
allowed to service the routes and service prices are all set by a
Technical Committee made up of two service provider representatives, two
members of the Ministry of Government and Justice, and one user
representative. The result is market segmentation, poor service and
inflated prices. The PPF is providing additional technical assistance to
review several options already proposed by stakeholders (MEF, CLICAC,
CONEP, others) on how to implement the surface passenger transport law,
throughout concessions, free market or "coupes". The Bank will assist in
the preparation of the legal framework required. Inequality and Poverty
Despite Panama's relatively high per capita income, an estimated
two-fifths of the population live in poverty. Roughly two-thirds of the
poor reside in the countryside; yet nowhere is the "duality" of the
economy and society more striking than in the area adjacent to the
Atlantic entrance of the Canal, where the poverty-ridden city of Colon is
juxtaposed to the busiest free-trade zone in the Western Hemisphere.
Income inequality in Panama is among the highest in the developing world,
with a Gin Index of 56.6 in 1989. Moreover, the gap between rich and poor
has widened. In 1979, the poorest quintile of the population received
four percent of income; by 1995, this share had plunged to 1.7 percent.
Furthermore, in 1989, the average real income of the poorest 40 percent of
the population was one-third lower than in 1979. National social
indicators are favorable compared to those of other countries in the
region, owing to the high levels of social spending over the past two
decades (over 11%- of GDP--among the highest in Latin America). These
resources have been misallocated, however, with strong biases in favor of
higher-income groups (e.g., with high allocations to curative rather than
basic health care and to higher education rather than primary school).
Such misallocation, combined with inefficiency and waste by social sector
institutions, have prevented spending from significantly improving the
well being of the poor. Indeed, social indicators among Panama's poor
resemble those of very low-income countries. In the poorest 40 districts,
infant mortality rates are 40-50 per thousand live births compared to a
national rate of 20. Chronic malnutrition among poor children is 40-45%-,
compared to a national average of 24%-. Over one-third of households in
the poorer districts of Panama do not have access to water and sanitation
services.The Government's program emphasizes reforms that promote growth,
reduce the bias against employment creation and lower the high cost of the
consumption basket. In addition, the incentive framework is being altered
to encourage increased agricultural production and employment
opportunities in the countryside, where most of the poor are located. The
Government is also developing a poverty alleviation and human resources
development strategy. This strategy would include the restructuring and
decentralization of education, health care and utilities to improve cost
recovery and efficiency, to reorient social sector spending to investments
in the poor, and to expand the social safety net for the poorest and most
vulnerable groups in society. The PPF is supporting the formulation of the
poverty reduction strategy through a Poverty Assessment and Action Plan
and the IDF Grant No 27582-PA. The Bank will keep supporting poverty
reduction efforts with the PPTAL.
2. Objectives
The Public Policy Reform Program Technical Assistance Loan would be a
- 6 -



companion operation to the recently approved Public Policy Reform
Structural Adjustment Loan or PPRAL. Its overarching objective is to
reduce poverty by: (i) accelerating economic growth and employment
creation, (ii) lowering the domestic process of tradables towards
international levels, and (iii) reorienting public spending to poverty
interventions. This would be achieved by providing support to building
institutions and designing and implementing policy reforms to be backed by
the PPRAL and additional reform initiatives for which studies are getting
underway and would be launched in a follow-on adjustment operation after
the May 1999 elections. The nature of this project is such that its
ultimate success could only be assessed by examining whether or not it has
directly contributed to the process of switching the Panamanian economy
from a low-performance steady state path to a high-performance steady
state path in terms of accelerating economic growth, employment creation
and poverty reduction. Nevertheless, it is still possible to suggest the
following leading project performance indicators: n Full operation of a
monitoring macroeconomic system in the Ministry of Economy and Finance.n
Preparation of regulations associated with WTO Protocol and approval of
such regulations by government.    n A modern and merit based Civil Service
system law prepared, a Civil Service Directorate strengthened and the
number of wages laws and regulations reduced and simplified.n CLICAC's
functioning and relevant involvement in cases affecting market
competition, transparency, efficiency, and consumer welfare. n SIACAP
institutional capacity strengthened and regulations reviewed including
investment options.n Strengthen Government capacity by reorienting the
Development Trust Fund (DTF) investments in development and social
programs. n Poverty Reduction Strategy and action plan implemented
through functioning development and social programs.n Reduce poverty from
2-4 percentage points and extreme poverty by 1-3 percentage points by
2001.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has unique knowledge and expertise in the field of competition
law-policy and consumer protection, which is not limited to single
national or regional model but spans international best practices,
enjoying a leadership position in this field among
international/multilateral organizations. This component is expected to
be the backbone of international assistance strategy in the field of
competition policy and consumer protection; prospective arrangements with
IDB and USAID are expected to provide a supporting role, mainly in terms
of equipment and infrastructure, and limited technical assistance in
selected areas.The government of Panama also values the Bank's worldwide
experience in strengthening public sector management and modernizing state
institutions. The Bank is in a unique position to support massive efforts
at implementing sector-wide reforms that require strong government
determination, sizable resources, and close monitoring of reform
progress. In addition, the Bank's presence would lend further support to
reforms already in progress within this sector.The Bank's in-depth
involvement in the first phase of social security reforms (ERL-1992/97)
provides unique knowledge and expertise in the sector field of social
security policy, design and actuarial reforms of the system in Panama.
The IDB planned involvement (PN-0056) is focused on administrative and
institutional capacity building and complements the Bank's
project.Furthermore, the Bank has already supported a first generation of
trade, tax, transport and foreign investment reforms. It has a history of
- 7 -



policy dialogue with Panamanian authorities, which facilitates project
design and implementation. The Bank has supported similar projects in
other Latin American countries and in the rest of the world,
often-emphasizing poverty reduction and capacity building and having
unique experience and a leadership position among international
organizations on these matters.
4. Description
A. Support for Economic Policy Reform This component will support
economic policy reform through the following sub-components:
A.1 Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy
A sustainable and operational framework for competition consisting of:
a) Prepare regulations on monopolistic practices, consumer protection and
unfair trade policy
b) CLICAC's Institutional profile and human resources strategy
c) Administrative guidelines,:
d) policy and law interpretation documents
e) preparation and implementation of a public communication and corporate
compliance program
f) implementation of a training program and linkages with major foreign
competition agencies for CLICAC's senior staff and the judiciary
A.2 Trade Reform and Economic Integration
In the area of trade:
a) Prepare implementing regulations for WTO-related legislation;
b) Regulations to fito and zoo-sanitary laws;
c) Simplification of procedures and revision of the law and regulations to
create micro and medium size enterprises;
d) Assessments of trade barriers to the tourism, agriculture and meat
sectors; and
e) Study to identify export capacities
A.3. Social Security Reform
a) Design alternatives and action plan for a second generation of social
security reforms focused on a multi-pillar schemes; and
b)Revision and update of the Social Security Agency's Actuarial Study
prepared by ILO.
A4. Tax Reform
Prepare draft legislation and regulations to implement Tax reforms
(simplification of tax procedures)
A.5. Transport Sector Reform
Prepare legislation and regulations to introduce competence in the freight
and passenger transport sectors
A.6. Inter--Oceanic Regional Authority Actualization of the Strategic Plan
for privatization and development.
A.7. Labor Market Study of the Panama's Labor Market
B. Public Management Reform
The activities under public management reform will be supported through
the following sub-components:
B. Civil Service Reform
a) Develop of computerized central registry of personnel and
corresponding registries in individual institutions to record and maintain
current employment histories, movements, discipline, etc.;
- 8 -



b) Recommend changes in civil service related legislation to promote
increased efficiency and a merit based personnel system; prepare
organizational and procedural manuals for personnel management at the
institutional level;
c) Strengthen the oversight and technical capacity of the civil service
directorate;
d) Implement transparent procedures of employee recruitment, testing,
evaluation, selection, and promotion to ensure the hiring and advancement
of the most qualified and productive employees in 12 pilot institutions;
e) Revision or updating of the SICLAR job classification system at the
central administration and decentralized public sector;
f) Develop and implement a market-based salary structure featuring
merit-based incentives for advancement;
g) Reorganization and upgrading of technical capacities of institutional
departments of human resources in the pilot institutions;
h) Plan and implement a management training program to modernize and
improve the administrative capacities of supervisors in order to increase
efficiency and implement a merit-based system of rewards;
Assist in the definition of training requirements of individual
institutions
C. Poverty Reduction
Poverty reduction will be assessed through the following activities:
a) Develop mechanisms to assign public expenditures to poverty reduction;
b) Monitoring and follow up poverty reduction trough recollection of date,
processing, analysis and publication;
c) Institutionalization of standards of living surveys;
d) Poverty reduction survey 200;
e) Assessment of DTF's target expenditure in poverty alleviation and
social development programs; and
f) strengthen the Social Policy Unit, including a strategy and action
plan. .
D. Reform Management
The project Coordination Unit will provide support to the Ministry of
Planning's Public Policy Unit in the design, implementation and monitoring
of policy and institutional reform including:
a) Fiscal and macroeconomic targets in the IMF EFF, in coordination with
the Comptroller General
b) Civil service reform, in coordination with the Civil Service
Directorate
c) Social security reform, in coordination with the Social Security Agency
d) Trade reform, in coordination with the Ministries of Agriculture and
Industry
e) Domestic competition policy, in coordination with CLICAC
Transport policy reform, in coordination with the Ministry of Public Works
E. Project Coordination
Project Coordination Unit (Technical Unit of Public Policy)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       10
6. Implementation
Project Coordination Overall project implementation would be undertaken
- 9-



by Ministry of Economy and Finance - Technical Unit of Public Policy the
institution responsible for assuring consistent implementation of the
Government's reform program and achievement of the program's economic
objectives. DPDI and DIPRENA at ME, DGCA at the Office of the Presidency,
CICLAC and the TG at the MHT are the sector institutions responsible for
defining and developing work programs, substantive oversight of
consultants and management of training activities.      UTPP will  act as
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) responsible for the general
coordination and execution of project activities.    The PCU  will be headed
by a UTPP Director acting as the Project's National Director and staffed
with national and international consultants with expertise in different
fields, including: public policy, civil service, competition and trade,
administration, and procurement to assist sectoral agencies in the
preparation and implementation of project's activities. To reduce the
administrative burden at the UTPP it is anticipated that a procurement
agency, the UNDP or a private firms, selected in a competitive bidding
process, would contracted out to assist in the hiring and payment of
consultants and procurement of goods and services. The UTPP will remain
responsible for identifying, selecting, and supervising consultants in
conjunction with the sectoral institution, and in procuring goods and
training. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The
UTPP will be responsible for the accounting and reporting requirements to
the Bank. It will maintain records and accounts according with LACI
system to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures for each project activity. The
accounts will be consolidated annually to prepare financial statements for
the project as a whole. Supporting documentation will be maintained and
made available to Bank missions and independent auditors as required. For
expenditures incurred on the basis of Statement of Expenditures all
records evidencing such expenditures will be retained by the UTPP until at
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of
any Special Account, whichever is later, is made. Project records and
accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, will be audited annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
auditors acceptable to the Bank, with terms of reference for auditors and
reports approved by the Bank. The Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting,
and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) published in January 1995 would be used by
the auditors in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines. Audit
reports will be furnished to the Bank within six? months of the close of
the Government's fiscal year.
7. Sustainability
The following issues are worth mentioning with regard to Competition,
Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy: (a) the creation of
competition culture in Panama is essential to ensuring voluntary
compliance with the principles of competition and consumer protection; (b)
incorporation of competition and consumer protection issues in academic
curricula, including at University level, with particular emphasis in
managerial, financial, economic and legal career streams; (c)
internalization of competition and consumer protection principles in
business policies, strategies, structures, operations and culture; (d)
effective advocacy role by CLICAC, underpinned by sustained credibility of
both policy and institutions; (e) CLICAC must continue receiving adequate
budgetary support and attracting high-caliber staff.By adopting a strategy
- 10 -



of implementing OHR systems on the basis of prototypes and minor normative
changes along the process, the Civil Service Reform component anticipates
the institutionalization of reforms. Early implementation, intensive
training and technology transfer will prevent loss of commitment, help
completing the process of system's ownership and ensure sustainability of
results.With regard to social security reform, deflecting the rather high
replacement ratios of the national pension scheme is essential for the
development of a second-tier capitalized pension system, by providing the
required incentives to stakeholders. Fiscal incentives (tax deductibility
of contributions) will enhance sustainability.Each of the four laws whose
regulations are going to be prepared under the Trade Policy Reform
component, established a period of time, ranging from 90 to 180 days, to
issue appropriate regulations. There is a legal obligation of issuing and
implementing regulations. In the case of private agricultural exchanges,
where no law or regulation existed before, there seems to be no reason to
predict that new regulations would not be sustainable. The sustainability
of the operational procedures for a one-stop import office will be a
function of the time and cost-reductions resulting to importers from their
application, relative to current situation. Given that these time and
cost-savings are measurable, the operational procedures can be reviewed if
they fail to materialize and are therefore sustainable in the sense that
they may improve continuously.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy component has
sought to take into account the views, concerns and needs of all
stakeholders. It is expected that experience obtained during Project
Preparation supported under Project Preparation Facility, will set the
stage for sub-component implementation under TAL. Every effort has been
made to provide reliable and realistic indicators of progress for this
component, but they will only be effective if strong monitoring and
feedback mechanisms are in place.Regarding Civil Service Reform, the
strategy adopted by the project is fully in line with the approach
followed by other countries in the region trying to develop and operate
advanced technologies for OHR management. In particular, the successful
experience of El Salvador, the present efforts in Nicaragua and Honduras
and the lessons learned from misleading experiences in Argentina, Uruguay,
Brazil and other Latin American countries, indicate that major reforms of
this kind succeed whenever there is strong, top-level and lasting
commitment from government; early implementations during project lifecycle
so as to ensure ownership; and massive training and technology transfer.
Regarding Social Security Reform, the analysis of the different phases of
the program confirms the difficulties of rationalizing national pension
schemes which still are not confronting short-term insolvency, despite the
fact that timely amendments can avoid rather painful measures once the
schemes accumulate further actuarial deficits. Furthermore, corrective
measures in subsidiary entitlements programs such as the insolvent
complementary pension scheme for public employees can be substantially
delayed, despite the lack of social equity of the program and the growing
fiscal deficit that were impacting negatively on public finances. The
success of the ERL in social security stems from its inclusion in a
comprehensive framework of economic and social reforms. The project
design incorporates these experiences and is focused on a gradual
introduction of the required reforms.Applying lessons from the Bank's
experience in public sector reform, the proposed project design is based
- 11 -



on a profound rethinking the role of the State in the economy, supporting
private sector participation and contracting out, decentralization,
transparent rules of laws, and efficiency on service delivery.
Institutional building capacity in core and regulatory institutions and
private oversight over the institutions main functions.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Effective implementation of Law 29 of 1996
(Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade) necessitates the
support of main stakeholders, including consumers and enterprises. There
is a risk that some economic sectors that have historically engaged in
anti-competitive practices, taking advantage of an alleged cultural
background where competition is not highly regarded and of their
traditional political clout, may seek to gain exemption from the
application of the Law or may adopt a hostile attitude. However,
stakeholders and beneficiaries are likely to be better organized and have
greater capacity to support the policy than has been typical in other
countries in the region.A professional civil service, equipped with modern
OHR management technologies, should impact the Panamanian society on at
least two levels: (a) improved technical quality and volume of public
services; and (b) better quality of delivery and responsiveness to
citizens' demands. Other possible political and cultural impacts may be
mentioned: (a) prevalence of merit over nepotism and clientelism; (b)
stability and continuity of public management at times of political
renewal; (c) greater accountability, transparency and confidence upon
bureaucracy.The Social Security Reform project will rationalize the
overall system of social protection in Panama introducing a more
transparent multi-tier pension system in Panama, accessible also to
self-employed persons, thus widening this social safety net.
11. Contact Points:
Task Manager
Ana Lucia Armijos
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-9048
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
- 12 -



