Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7446-PAN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(
Additional Loan for the Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance
 
Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 10, 2008 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement (the Loan Agreement) dated March 10, 2008, between REPUBLIC 
OF PANAMA (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing a 
Loan (the Loan) to assist in financing the Project which includes activities (the Activities) 
supplemental to the Original Project set forth in the Original Loan Agreement (all as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as 
follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions for the Loan Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement 
with the modifications thereof set forth in Section II of said 
Appendix)
,
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions for the 
Loan Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of six million Dollars ($6,000,000) as 
such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (
“Loan”), to 
assist in financing the Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
(“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
per cent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. In the event that the Borrower selects not 
to capitalize the Front-end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not 
later than 60 days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Page  3
2
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during 
each Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and D.1
 
of the Project through MEF;  
 
(b) 
cause CGR  to carry out Parts A.2, A.3, and D.2 of the  Project; and 
 
(c) 
cause DGCP to carry out Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the  Project; 
Page  4
3
all in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions for 
the Loan Agreement; the CGR Project Agreement and the DGCP Project 
Agreement and each related applicable General Conditions thereunder. In the 
event that any provision of certain General Conditions heretofore referred to shall 
conflict with any provision of other General Conditions, the terms and conditions 
of the General Conditions applicable under each agreement shall prevail.  
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
DGCP Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the DGCP 
to perform any of its obligations under the DGCP Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
CGR Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the CGR to 
perform any of its obligations under the CGR Project Agreement. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
 
event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs 
 
and is continuing for a period of ninety (90) days after notice of the event has 
 
been given by the Bank to the Borrower, unless the Borrower establishes, 
 
satisfactory to the Bank, that the CGR Project Agreement and the DGCP Project 
 
Agreement have been assigned or transferred to successor agencies satisfactory 
 
to the Bank. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed between MEF and CGR, 
acting in their respective implementing capacities under this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the Implementation Memorandum has been executed between MEF and 
DGCP, acting in their respective implementing capacities under this 
Agreement; and 
Page  5
4
(c) 
The Borrower has adopted an operational manual for the Project 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
5.02. 
The Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the CGR Subsidiary 
 
Agreement and the DGCP Implementation Memorandum have been duly 
 
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and are legally binding upon MEF, CGR 
 
and DGCP, as the case may be, in accordance with their terms. 
 
5.03. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions for the Loan 
 
Agreement, the Effectiveness Deadline for all obligations accruing under any 
 
such agreement is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Loan 
 
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18)
 months after the Bank’s 
 
approval of the Loan which expire on November 10, 2008. 
 
ARTICLE VI
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance.   
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Dirección de Crédito Público 
Vía España, Calle 52 
Edificio OGAWA, 4to Piso 
Panamá, República de Panamá 
Facsimile: (507) 507-7200 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
5
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA 
 
By /s/ Federico Humbert 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is
 to consolidate and deepen the Borrower’s reforms 
to accelerate growth and reduce poverty by: (a) strengthening the Borrower’s economic 
monitoring and planning, policy reform formulation and execution capacity; (b) 
improving the quality of poverty data and information on social expenditures aimed at 
increasing the efficiency and targeting of social programs; and (c) improving efficiency 
and transparency in public procurement.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A:  Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector Efficiency
A.1. 
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MEF Minister's Office (
Despacho 
Superior
)
to enable it to: (a)
 
provide technical advice on policies aimed at 
fostering economic growth and employment; and (b) improve fiscal reporting 
systems and documents in line with international practice.  
 
A.2. 
Assisting CGR in the formulation and subsequent implementation of a phased 
program to enable it to: (a) modernize fiscal control, accounting, auditing and 
financial accountability practices; and (b) develop and implement public fiscal 
management training programs. 
 
A.3. 
Strengthening the institutional and operational capacity of the census and 
statistics directorate of CGR to enable it to: (a) modernize its structure and 
functions; and (b) improve the methodologies it uses for calculating selected 
macroeconomic indicators. 
 
Part B:  Social Spending and Poverty Reduction
Assisting MEF in: 
 
B.1. 
Carrying out a third living standards measurement survey to update key 
indicators of poverty and living conditions. 
 
B.2. 
Designing and carrying out of assessment tools to evaluate the impact of the 
Borrower’s poverty reduction efforts in selected programs of the Borrower.  
 
Part C:  Public Procurement System
C.1. 
Assisting DGCP in the formulation and subsequent implementation of a phased 
program to enable it to: (a) develop standardized procurement procedures and 
documents of general application nationwide; (b) contribute to the development 
Page  8
7
and implementation of a new human resource strategy; (c) assess and adjust 
general procurement procedures; and (d) carry out training programs in the 
application of the Procurement Law. 
 
C.2. 
Refining the legal framework for the implementation of the Procurement Law 
through the elaboration of implementation regulations, procedures, methods and 
related standard procurement documents. 
 
C.3. 
Supporting improvements in the Borrower’s electronic public procurement 
information system (
Panamá Compra). 
 
Part D:  Project Management
D.1. 
The provision of support to strengthen PIU in MEF and enable it to effectively 
coordinate, monitor and evaluate the implementation of Project activities. 
 
D.2. 
The provision of support to establish PEU in CGR and enable it to effectively 
coordinate, monitor and evaluate the implementation of Project activities. 
 
D.3. 
The provision of support to establish PEU in DGCP and enable it to effectively 
coordinate, monitor, and evaluate the implementation of Project activities.  
 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, maintain within MEF throughout 
the implementation of the Project, a coordinating unit for the Project which shall: 
(a) 
consist of staff appointed with terms of reference, functions and 
resources satisfactory to the Bank at all times during the implementation 
of the   Project.  
(b) be 
responsible, 
inter alia
,
for: (i) the coordination of all  Project 
activities; and (ii) the procurement in respect of Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and 
D.1 of the  Project; and 
(c) 
remain within the Public Policies Technical Unit of MEF and report 
periodically to the Minister in charge, as specified further in the OM.  
2. 
The Borrower shall, not later than thirty (30) days after the Effective Date for the 
Loan Agreement, establish and thereafter maintain throughout Project 
implementation, a Steering Committee: 
(a) responsible 
for, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project progress oversight, orientation 
and coordination; (ii) addressing constraints in Project implementation; 
and (iii) approving annual operating plans for the Project; and  
(b) 
chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and comprising 
representatives of MEF, CGR and DGCP, all as further set forth in the 
OM
.
B.
 
Subsidiary Agreement and Implementation Memorandum  
 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out by CGR of Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project; 
and the carrying out by DGCP of Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Loan available respectively to 
CGR under a Subsidiary Agreement between the MEF and CGR and to DGCP 
under an Implementation Memorandum between DGCP and MEF, all under 
terms and conditions approved by the Bank, which shall include the following:  
 
Page  10
9
(a) 
the requirement that CGR and DGCP shall be responsible for the 
execution of relevant parts of the Project and that they shall commit to 
execute them in accordance with the applicable relevant General 
Conditions, the OM and the pertinent provisions of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the arrangements for the harmonization, rationalization and consolidation 
by MEF of all financial managements issues, audit and reporting for the 
Project; and 
 
(c) 
the requirement that CGR and DGCP promptly inform MEF and the 
Bank of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere 
with the performance of their respective obligations under the relevant 
Project Agreement.  
 
2. 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and the 
Implementation Memorandum in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree after prior consultations in connection therewith, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement and/or the Implementation Memorandum or any of their provisions.
 
C.
 
Implementation Documents 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall, not later than the Effective Date, cause MEF, CGR 
and DGCP respectively, to adopt an operational manual satisfactory to 
the Bank to consist of different schedules setting forth, respectively, 
rules, methods, guidelines, specific development plans, standard 
documents and procedures for the carrying out of the relevant parts of the 
Project, including the following: 
 
(i) 
the operational strategy for Project implementation; 
(ii) 
the detailed description of  Project implementation activities, 
their sequencing and the prospective timetable and benchmarks 
in relation thereto;  
(iii) 
the Project administrative, accounting, auditing, reporting, 
financial, procurement and disbursement procedures, including 
all pertinent standard documents and model contracts in relation 
thereto;  
(iv) 
the plan for the training and capacity building activities under the   
Project;  
Page  11
10
(v) 
the plan for the monitoring, evaluation and supervision of the   
Project; and 
 
(vi) 
the performance indicators for the relevant parts of the Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause MEF, CGR and DGCP to carry out their 
respective parts of the Project in accordance with the OM. 
 
2. 
In the event that any provision of the OM shall conflict with any one under this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
3. 
The OM may only be amended from time to time
 
in
 
consultation with, and after 
approval of, the Bank. 
Section II. 
  Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation
A. 
  Project Reports  
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MEF, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare consolidated Project Reports for the Loan in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions for the Loan Agreement 
and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the OM.  
Each Project Report for the Loan shall cover the period of one calendar semester, 
and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end 
of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions for the Loan 
Agreement, the report on the execution of the Project and related plan required 
pursuant to that Section shall be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 
2010. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain in MEF and cause to be maintained in CGR and 
DGCP respectively, a financial management system in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions for the Loan Agreement. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
through MEF: (a) prepare for Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and D.1 of the Project, interim 
unaudited financial reports covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) furnish to the Bank not later than one month 
after the end of each calendar semester, as part of the Project Report for the 
Loan, the said unaudited financial reports for MEF together with the interim 
unaudited financial reports for CGR and DGCP respectively. 
 
Page  12
11
3. 
The Borrower shall, through MEF, have the Financial Statements for the Project, 
including the relevant parts of the Project implemented by MEF, CGR and 
DGCP respectively, audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) 
of the General Conditions for the Loan Agreement. Each audit of the Financial 
Statements described heretofore shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Borrower.  The audited Financial Statements described heretofore for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of 
such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  
 All Goods and Non-Consultant Services 
required for Parts A.1, B.1, B.2, and D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in the Procurement Guidelines for the Loan as defined in 
this Agreement, and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for Parts A.1, B.1, 
B.2, and D.1 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in 
the Consultant Guidelines for the Loan, as defined in this Agreement and with 
the provisions of this Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.  
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines for the Loan, or the Consultant Guidelines for the Loan, both as 
defined in this  Agreement, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non Consultant Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, Goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures and 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
prior registration, obtaining a license or an agreement shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures;  
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
Page  13
12
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and 
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for Goods and Non-
 
Consultant Services .The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) National Competitive Bidding  subject to the following  provisions: 
 
(i) standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should 
 be 
used; 
(ii) foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
(iii)  
no
bids of proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall 
 
be made at the time of bid opening; 
(iv)  
t
he
invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
(v) the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
 
meeting as a condition to bid; and 
(vi) potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which 
 
should not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and small 
 
Goods and Non Consultant Services contracts. 
(b)  Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i) foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
 
(ii) a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to 
 
award the contract. 
 
(c) 
Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
Page  14
13
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s   prior written consent  
(f) Procedures for the selection of Individual  Consultants 
3. 
Special provisions. 
All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
 carried 
out
 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
 
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
(c) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person. 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall 
 
be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
 
Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. 
General   
 
1.
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
Page  15
14
additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects”
 
dated May 
2006 as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the   Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD
)
Percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures to be 
Financed
(1)  Implementation by MEF of 
 
Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and D.1 
 
of the  Project: 
 
(a)  Goods and Non-Consultant 
 Services. 
 
(b) Training. 
 
(c) Consultants’ services. 
 
700,000 
 
80,000 
 
1,850,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(2)  Implementation by CGR of 
 
Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of 
 
the  Project: 
 
(a) Training. 
 
(b) Consultants’ services. 
 
240,000 
 
1,550,000 
 
100% 
 
100% 
(3)  Implementation by DGCP 
 
of Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and 
 
D.3 of the  Project: 
 
(a) Training. 
 
(b) Consultants’ services.  
 
80,000 
 
1,200,000 
 
100% 
100% 
(4) Unallocated 
 
300,000  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
6,000,000  
Page  16
15
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
 made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the 
Front-end Fee in respect of the Loan, as referred to in Section 2.04 of the 
Loan Agreement;  
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed five hundred 
thousand Dollars ($500,000) equivalent may be made for payments made 
prior to this date but on or after April 12, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures 
under Category (3) in the table of Section IV of this Schedule;  
 
(c) 
under Category (3) in the table of Section IV of this Schedule until a 
procurement specialist and a Project manager satisfactory to the Bank 
and selected in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this 
Schedule are appointed and maintained in DGCP throughout Project 
implementation with functions, terms of reference and resources 
satisfactory at all times to the Bank; and 
 
(d) 
under Category (3) in the table of Section IV of this Schedule until
 
the 
Borrower through MEF shall have: (i) selected, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section III.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and pursuant 
to terms of reference previously agreed with the Bank, an agent 
acceptable to the Bank, and thereafter; and (ii) following the carrying out 
of a financial management assessment thereof, shall have entered into, 
and abide by the terms of, an agreement for the administration of Loan 
proceeds allocated to the carrying out of Parts A.1, B.1, B.2 and D.1 of 
the Project (the Fiduciary Agency Agreement) with the agent finally 
retained, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is October 30, 2009. 
 
Page  17
16
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the   
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning June 15, 2009 
through June 15, 2016 
 
6.25% 
 
On December 15, 2016
 
6.25%
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
Page  18
17
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  19
18
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Activities” means several specific new activities related to reinforcing capacity 
of selected entities of the Borrower in the context of the Loan, including 
inter 
alia
,
all aspects thereof related to: (a) the introduction, refining and dissemination 
of the new procurement law of the Borrower; and (b) the assessment of poverty 
in the territory of the Borrower and the impact thereon of related programs of the 
Borrower, all as set forth in Parts B.1, B.2 and C of the Project. 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Loan Agreement. 
 
3. “CGR” 
means 
Contraloría General de la Republica, 
the Borrower’s Office of the 
Comptroller. 
 
4. 
“CGR Legislation” means Law
 
No. 32 of the Borrower dated November 08, 
1984, which establishes CGR as an independent entity discharging the duties of a 
general comptroller’s office over Borrower’s funds. 
 
5. 
“CGR Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
CGR and the Bank. 
 
6. 
“Consultant Guidelines for the Loan” means the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, 
January 1999
 
and May 2004.
 
7. “DGCP” 
means 
Dirección General de Contrataciones Públicas
,
the entity of 
MEF responsible for public procurement of all public sector entities of the 
Borrower. 
 
8. 
“DGCP Legislation” means Law No. 22 dated June 27, 2006 establishing such                    
directorate as an independent entity subject to the supervision of CGR and the 
Borrower’s policies issued by MEF. 
 
9. 
“DGCP Project Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between 
DGCP and the Bank. 
 
10. 
“General Conditions for the Loan Agreement” means the “International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans dated July 1, 
2005, with the modifications thereof set forth in Section II of this Appendix.  
Page  20
19
 
11. 
“Implementation Memorandum” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B 
of Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall 
make the proceeds of the Loan available to DGCP. 
 
12. 
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance. 
 
13. 
“Non-Consultant Services” means in respect of Category (1) of the table in 
Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement, the services contracted in 
connection with the carrying out of activities set forth under part B.1 of the 
Project. 
 
14. 
“OM” means the Operational Manual for the project referred to in Section I.C.1 
(a) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
15. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the Loan agreement for a Public Policy 
Reform Technical Assistance Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated 
October 4, 2001, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Loan No. 4635-
PAN). 
 
16. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
17. 
“PEU” means an executing unit to be established and maintained in CGR and 
DGCP respectively for the implementation of specific parts of the Project. 
 
18. 
“PIU” means the implementing unit to be maintained in MEF for the 
implementation of specific activities of the Project and the overall coordination 
thereof. 
 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997, January 1999
 
and May 2004.
 
20. 
“Procurement Law” means the law dated June 27, 2006 establishing new 
procurement rules for the carrying out of public investments by all public sector 
entities of the Borrower.  
 
21. 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan consisting of 3 schedules and 
adopted jointly by MEF, CGR and DGCP for the carrying out of their respective 
activities under the relevant parts of the Project, dated April 12, 2007 and 
referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 
of the Consultant Guidelines for the Loan, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
Page  21
20
22. 
“Project” means the Original Project modified by the deletion of one component 
(Part A thereof) in the description of the Original Project set forth in Schedule 2 
of the Original Loan Agreement and including selected Activities for reinforcing 
the focus of public policy reform on CGR and DGCP respectively. 
 
23. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B of 
Schedule 2 to this Loan Agreement pursuant to which the Borrower shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to CGR. 
 
24. 
“Training” means in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the table in Section 
IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the expenditures other than for 
Consultants services incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying 
out of training activities under the Project, including reasonable travel costs and 
per diem of trainees, rental of facilities and equipment, and training materials. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, the modifications to the General Conditions for Loans of 
the Bank, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is amended by the deletion of subparagraph (a), to read in its 
entirety:  
 
“Section 3.01.  Front-end Fee. The Borrower shall pay the Bank a front-end fee 
on the Loan amount at the rate specified in the Loan Agreement (the “front-end 
Fee”). 
 
(b)  
Section 3.02 is modified by the addition of a new subparagraph (d) to read: 
 
(d) 
“Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such 
non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the Borrower shall pay 
the Default Interest Rate on such overdue amount in lieu of the interest rate 
specified in the Loan Agreement (or such other interest rate as may be 
applicable pursuant to Article IV as a result of a Conversion) until such overdue 
amount is fully paid.  Interest at the Default Interest Rate shall accrue from the 
first day of each Default Interest Period and shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on each Payment Date.” 
 
