Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7446-PAN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance
 
Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
DIRECCIÓN GENERAL DE CONTRATACIONES PÚBLICAS  
DE LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ 
 
Dated March 10, 2008
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 10, 2008, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and DIRECCIÓN 
GENERAL DE CONTRATACIÓNES PUBLICAS DE LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ 
(“DGCP”) (“Project Agreement”) in connection with the loan agreement (“Loan 
Agreement”) of same date between REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ (“Borrower”) and the 
Bank.  The Bank and DGCP hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions for the Project Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions for the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
DGCP declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, 
DGCP shall carry out Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions for the Project 
Agreement, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and DGCP shall otherwise agree, DGCP shall carry out Parts 
C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project in accordance with the General Conditions 
for the Project Agreement and the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
DGCP Representative is its Director. 
 
3.02. DGCP
’s address is: 
 
Plaza Credicorp Bank Panamá, piso 8 
 
Calle 50, Ciudad de Panamá   
     
 Phone: 
507-515-1501 
 
Fax:    507-515-1502   
 
Page  3
2
3.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 
RECONSTRUCITON AND DEVELOPMENT   
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
DIRECCIÓN GENERAL DE CONTRATACIONES
 
PÚBLICAS DE LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ 
 
By /s/ Federico Humbert 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Execution of Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3
 
of
 
the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, establish and thereafter maintain 
within DGCP throughout the implementation of the Project, a Project executing 
unit (PEU) which shall: 
 
(a) 
consist of staff, including a Procurement Specialist and a Project
 
Manager, appointed  and employed with terms of reference, functions 
and resources satisfactory to the Bank, at all times, during the 
implementation of the Project;  
 
(b) 
be responsible for managing and monitoring the implementation of Parts 
C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project, including the procurement, 
financial, disbursement and reporting requirements under Parts C.1, C.2, 
C.3 and D.3 of the  Project; and 
 
(c) 
be responsible for submitting to MEF, timely information needed in 
respect of audits and consolidated Project reporting requirements 
specified in the Loan Agreement. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
DGCP shall ensure that Parts C.1, C.2, C.3
 
and D.3 of the Project are carried out 
in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
C.
 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
1. 
Not later than 90 days after the Effective Date, DGCP shall carry out the action 
 
plan dated April 11, 2007, agreed with the Bank for the strengthening of its 
 
financial management capacity for the Project. 
 
2.
 
DGCP shall promptly inform MEF and the Bank of any condition which 
 
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with the performance of its obligations 
 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
 
Page  5
4
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
DGCP shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of 
the Project and prepare Project Reports in relation thereto, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of 
indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the OM. Each such Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester and shall be furnished to 
the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered by 
such report. To that end, CGR shall, not later than 2 weeks before the due date 
for submission by MEF of the consolidated Project Report to the Bank, furnish to 
MEF partial reports covering the implementation of Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3
 
of the Project for incorporation into, and subsequent forwarding to the Bank of 
the consolidated Project Report for the Loan.  
 
2. 
DGCP shall provide to the Borrower not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 5.08 (c) of the General 
Conditions, all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably 
request for the purposes of that Section.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
DGCP shall maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project. 
 
2. 
DGCP, in collaboration with MEF, shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  To that end, 
CGR shall, not later than March 31 of each year, furnish to MEF its annual 
financial statements for auditing purposes.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  
 All goods and Non-Consultant Services 
required for Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 and D.3 of the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in the Procurement Guidelines for the Project Agreement, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
 
Page  6
5
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for Parts C.1, C.2, C.3 
and D.3 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Project Agreement and with the provisions of this 
Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines for the Project Agreement or Consultant Guidelines for the Project 
Agreement, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non Consultant Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures and 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
prior registration, obtaining a licenses or an agreement shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures;  
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-
Consultants’ Services .The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  7
6
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding subject to the following  provisions: 
 
(i) standard bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding 
 
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, should be used; 
(ii) foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
(iii) no bids of proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall 
 
be made at the time of bid opening; 
(iv) the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
(v) 
 the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
 
meeting as a condition to bid; and 
(vi)  potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids which 
 
should not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and small 
 goods 
contracts. 
(b) Shopping subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
(ii)  a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to 
 
award the contract. 
(c) 
Direct Contracting subject to the Bank’s prior consent.
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s   prior written consent  
(f) Procedures for the selection of Individual  Consultants 
Page  8
7
3. 
Special provisions. 
All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
carried out
 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
 
(b) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
(c)  
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person. 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall 
 
be subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to 
 
Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines for the Project Agreement” means the “Guidelines: 
 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published 
 
by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions for the Project Agreement” means the “International Bank 
 
for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 
 
1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006). 
 
4. 
“Procurement Guidelines for the Project Agreement” means “Procurement 
 
Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
 
Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Procurement Plan” means for purposes of this Project Agreement, the 
 
procurement plan adopted by DGCP for the carrying out of Parts C.1, C.2, 
 
C.3 and D.3 of the Project, dated April 12, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 
 
of 
the 
 Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with 
 
the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
