Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22521 PAN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 9, 2001,
Poverty Reduction and Economic Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30,2001)
Currency UJnit = Panamanian Balboas
1 Balboa = US$1
US$1 = 1 Balboa
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP                    Panama Canal Authority
ARI                    Inter-Oceanic Regional Authority
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CGR                    General Comptroller Office
DEC                    Census and Statistics Directorate
CSS                    Social Security Institute
CLICAC                 Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission
CPAR                   Country Procurement Assessment Report
DG,CP                  Public Procurement General Directorate
DGNTI                  General Directorate of Rules and Industrial Technology
DPS                    Social Policy Directorate
FTAA                   Free Trade Area of the Americas
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                    International Finance Corporation
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
IPR                    Intellectual Property Rights
MEF                    Ministry of Economy and Finance
MICI                   Ministry of Commerce and Industries
NGO                    Nongovernmental Organization
PCU                    Project Coordination Unit
PPF                    Project Preparation Facility
PPRAL                  Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan
PPRTAL                 Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Loan
StACAP                 Pension Fund for Public Employees
UTPP                   Public Policies Technical Unit
UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
VICOMEX                Vice Ministry of External Trade
VICOMIN                Vice Ministry of Internal Trade
WTO                    World Trade Organization
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:    Emesto May
Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ana Lucia Armijos  ____  __I



PANAMA
PUBLIC POLICY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    12
3. Benefits and target population                                                   13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      1 7
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                        18
3. Technical                                                                        19
4. Institutional                                                                    19
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   22
2. Critical risks                                                                   22



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   23
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          23
2. Other                                                                            24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      24
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        40
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    42
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  49
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 50
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          53
MAP(S)



PANAM[A
Public Policy Reforn Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSPE]
Date: July 16, 2001                                Team Leader: Ana Lucia Armijos
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Manager/Director: Ernesto May
Project ID: P055844                                Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, BY - Other
Public Sector Management, KY - Other Economic Policy,
MH - Human Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): Poverty Reduction; Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
pXq Loan     [ 1 Credit    [1 Grant      1 Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$10.5 million
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: standard                          Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):     Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        3.01            0.00          3.01
IBRD                                                            6.30            4.20          10.50
Total:                                                          9.31            4.20          13.51
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
- Public Procurement General Directorate, Social Policy Directorate and Public Policies Technical Unit; Ministry of
Commerce and Industries - Vice Ministry of External Trade and Vice Ministry of Internal Trade; Competition and
Consumer Affairs Commission (CLICAC); and General Comptroller's Office - Census and Statistics Directorate.
Address: Apartado 7304 - Panama 5, R. de Panama
Contact Person: Vice Minister of Economy and Finance - Domingo Latorraca M.
Tel: (507)269-2397 & 223-8300           Fax: (507)269-2434             Email: dlatorraca@pty.com
Other Agency(ies):
UTPP - Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
Address: Via Espana y Calle 52 Este, Edificio Ogawa, Piso 4, Apartado 7304, Zona 5, Panama, Republica de Panama
Contact Person: Jorge Mateo Milwood - Acting Director
Tel: (507)263-4311 & 264-2732           Fax: (507) 264-2620            Email: Enelda@Sinfo.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003        2004      2005
Annual    3.00        3.50       2.00       2.00
Cumulative    3.00        6.50       8.50      10.50
Project implementation period: 2002-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 12/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS PAD F- Pe M.1d, 2DOQ



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project is to consolidate and deepen the
reforms needed to accelerate growth and reduce poverty, by strengthening the Government's economic
monitoring and planning, policy formulation and execution capacity. The project would promote the
achievement of this objective by assisting the Government in the implementation of selected commitments
and policies, the design of selected new reforms and the improvement of its capacity to carry out poverty
and economic monitoring, and analytical evaluations. More specifically, the objectives of the project would
include the following:
(i) promoting trade reform and liberalization through implementation of WTO commitments,
strengthening institutional capacity for multilateral, regional, and bilateral trade initiatives, investing in
information systems related to trade, intellectual property rights and standards, and legal reform and
implementation of competition and consumer protection laws;
(ii) contributing to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency by strengthening the overall capacity of
the Government to monitor economic data and improve macroeconomic policy formulation and
implementation;
(iii) improving the quality of poverty data and information on social expenditures so as to increase the
relevance, efficiency and targeting of social programs; and
(iv) improving the efficiency and transparency in public procurement through changes in its legal
framework, strengthening institutional capacity for public procurement and developing a public
procurement information system.
The studies and reports to be prepared under this operation, as well as the advisory services to be provided
will not only support the Government's long-term economic development programn, but will also help in the
implementation of a short term recovery plan intended to jump-start the economy.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators are described in Annex 1. The nature of this project is such that its
ultimate success could only be assessed by examining whether or not it has directly contributed to the
process of consolidation and deepening of the reforms needed to accelerate growth, create employment and
reduce poverty. Nevertheless, it is still possible to suggest the following leading project performance
indicators:
*   Implementation of WTO Agreements on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Standards, Technical Barriers to
Trade, and Agriculture by end-2004.
*   Full operation of a new information center on standards in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry by
end-2004.
*  Upgrading of databases and completion of outreach programs on intellectual property rights by
end-2003.
*   Evaluation to identify national value-added content and assess rules of origin of key products
completed by June 2003.
-2-



* Comparative study on treatment of national corporate legal status in international trade agreements,
completed by June 2003.
* Completion of regulations to implement Law No. 29 on Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair
Trade Policy, by end-2002.
*   Fully-functioning laboratory for quality standards and metrology assessments by end-2003.
*   Sector studies assessing entry barriers and constraints on competition, efficiency and consumer
welfare prepared by June 2003.
*   Changes in the base year for National Accounts and the Price Index, and quarterly data for the GDP by
end-2003.
*   Completion of the Survey 2002 on living conditions by June 2003.
*   Public Social Expenditure review completed by end-2002.
*   Draft of amendment to existing Procurement Law and related regulations, prepared by end-2002.
i  Public procurement information system in place by end-2003.
See Annex 1 for additional key performance indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18421 PAN               Date of latest CAS discussion: October 29, 1998
The Panama Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was discussed by the Board in November 1998. The
thrust of the CAS is to assist Panama in implementing its poverty reduction strategy. The CAS supports
accelerated growth as a key element of the Government's poverty strategy, through: (i) consolidating fiscal
sustainability and improving public sector efficiency; (ii) fostering competition and private sector
development; (iii) improving governance; (iv) modernizing infrastructure; and, (v) ensuring a smooth
transition of the Canal and the efficient development of the forner Canal zone. The CAS also seeks to
expand access of the poor to social services, infrastructure and assets; improve social safety nets; and
foster environmentally sustainable development.
The proposed project aims to strengthen the Govermuenl;'s institutional capacity to support implementation
of the overall poverty reduction strategy, as well as to improve public sector efficiency, foster competition
and improve governance. The trade component would support Panama's implementation of WTO
commitments, rationalize multilateral, regional, and bilateral trade initiatives, and strengthen competition,
consumer protection and safeguards against unfair trade practices. It would also support implementation
of strengthened standards and patent and trademarks databases and related implementation of domestic
laws. The fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency component would aim to improve the quality
and timeliness of economic data and to strengthen the Government's capacity to design and implement
macroeconomic policies. The poverty component would strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor
living conditions, analyze the poverty incidence of public spending and improve the design of policies and
programs to combat poverty. The procurement component would aim to improve the efficiency and
transparency of the public sector procurement system, and strengthen the capacity of the General
Comptroller's Office and the Directorate of Public Procurement at the Ministry of Economy and Finance
- 3 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Although it was once one of the more prosperous and stable economies in Latin America, in the 1970s
Panama adopted highly protectionist and distortionary policies that ultimately stifled growth, generated a
large external debt, created a highly dualistic economy, exacerbated poverty, and led to a marked increase
in inequality. By the 1980s, these distortions, together with an ensuing debt crisis, had plunged the
economy into a deep recession. By the late 1980s, Panama had ceased to service its commercial debt and
fell into arrears with multilateral creditors, and by end-1989, GDP had fallen by 16%, mismanagement and
external sanctions had demonetized the economy, and unemployment had climbed to 20%. High poverty
and inequality are partly the legacy of both policies that severely penalized growth and employment and
distorted social expenditures, redistributing income from the poor to the non-poor, and also from poorly
targeted safety nets.
Since 1990, Panama has come a long way towards achieving economic recovery. By 1994, GDP reached
pre-crisis levels, but in the absence of fundamental structural changes in the economy, growth fell back to
the modest 2% trend of the previous two decades and poverty remained high. Starting at about that time,
the Government began carrying out many of the critical reforms needed to stimulate more broad-based
growth and begin attacking poverty. It dismantled a labyrinth of trade barriers and price controls;
undertook a far-reaching privatization program and issued anti-trust and consumer protection legislation;
concluded a Debt and Debt Service Reduction (DDSR) accord which restored Panama's access to
international financial markets; and strengthened public finances, having downsized the state and external
debt.
Since the early 1990s, the Bank has supported policy reforms and debt reduction efforts essential for
Panama's recovery first through a DDSR Loan and the Economic Recovery Loan that supported the
reforms described above, and in the late 1990s through a Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan (PPRAL)
aimed at consolidating and deepening the reform process. Bank support under the PPRAL focused on: (i)
deepening trade reform; (ii) implementation of competition policy to complement trade reform; (iii) social
security reform to implement the private pension regime for state employees, and (iv) the development and
implementation of a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan, to ensure that the growth
process stimulated by the reform program would result in measurable decreases in the level of poverty.
The Government made substantial progress in each of these areas, and the single tranche PPRAL was
disbursed in full by end-1998.
The proposed project was under preparation at the time, and was envisioned to back a wider range of
reforms and institution building. Because it aimed to support not only the implementation of reforms
already in place but also the design of additional reforms, processing of the proposed project was put on
hold for review by the Administration that assumed office in September 1999.
In September 1999, President Moscoso assumed office and comnitted the Administration to an ambitious
Economic, Social and Financial Development Program (Plan de Desarollo Economico Social y Financiero
con Inversi6n en Capital Humano) with the overreaching objectives of promoting economic growth and
employment, reducing poverty and incorporating marginal groups to the development process, and
preparing the economy for integration to the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), including the
negotiation of a free trade agreement with Central America. This regional integration strategy is viewed by
the authorities as a natural extension of the unilateral and multilateral liberalization efforts to achieve
higher outward-oriented growth and increases in employment and income.
- 4 -



Despite the enactment of far-reaching reforms, especially in trade, competition policy and the social
security system, there is a general perception that the economy is not performing to its potential, and
targeted poverty programs have not been as effective as could be expected. Growth has averaged only
3.4% over the last five years, and targeting of social expenditures needs to be improved. Although the
Government spends a relatively high and increasing amount on the social sectors-public social spending
currently absorbs about 20 percent of GDP, putting Panama among the top social spenders in the Region-
spending allocations in education and health are regressive with the poorest quintiles benefiting the least.
The thrust of the Government's development program is to reduce poverty by accelerating growth and
improving the efficiency, relevance and targeting of its social programs. Strong macroeconomic
management, especially consolidating fiscal sustainability and improving public sector efficiency, is a
necessary precondition for sustained higher growth. The private sector is expected to lead economic
growth, but to ensure that growth is more broad based and sustainable, Panama intends to continue efforts
to improve the functioning of markets, enhance competition, and remove remaining economic distortions.
Consolidation of economic reforms is also strongly linked to the quality and transparency of Government
decision-making, including public procurement, decentralization, and financial management processes.
While much of the Government's program can be carried out through the effective application of reforms
that are being implemented, the Government also intends to broaden the reform effort, and seeks technical
assistance in selected areas. In this respect, support is needed in the following areas: (i) while new
challenges of increasingly complex trade negotiation are apparent, Panama's trade management institutions
need urgent capacity building, the development of appropriate methodologies to assess progress in
negotiations, and implementation and/or harmonization of trade agreements, including those with WTO;
(ii) to overcome trade limitations and promote competition, consumer protection and safeguards against
unfair trade policies, the full implementation of Law No. 29 is required, as is the strengthening of the
institutional capacity to enforce it; (iii) macroeconomic data is not reliable due to problems in the
methodology used to compile statistical information, delays in data collection and insufficient skilled staff
in the statistical unit; (iv) the formulation, execution and supervision of macroeconomic policies suffer
from lack of enough human resources, appropriate coordination and consistency across ministries and
organizational overlaps; (v) despite Panama's relatively high and increasing social spending, low
performance on social indicators persists for many segments of the population due to lack of socioeconomic
data and its monitoring as well as inefficiencies and inequities in social spending; and (vi) Government
investment is costly, lengthy and generally constrained by a public procurement process that is inefficient,
lengthy and cumbersome, and lacks transparency.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project, although broad in reach, is aimed at supporting key aspects of the Government's
strategy in the areas of trade reform, fiscal sustainability, social spending and poverty reduction, and public
procurement, all areas that support directly the implementation of already agreed reforms that are critical to
increase growth and improve the effectiveness of targeted poverty programs, or the design of new reforms
that support these objectives in areas in which the Government is prepared to move forward.
Promote Trade Reform and Institutional Capacity
Support the Implementation of WTO Commitments. In order to support accelerated economic
development and trade reform, the Government's priorities include strengthening capacity in the areas
related to multilateral trade. The strategy recognizes that a clear link and coherence between multilateral
objectives and domestic reform is of paramount importance. Hence, a centerpiece of continued trade policy
- 5-



reform that will be supported by the project is strengthened implementation of WTO Uruguay Round
Agreements that Panama signed in 1997, the integration into the rules based system of the WTO which is
central to Panama's ability to leverage the benefits that open trade offers; the strengthening of Panama's
capacity to exercise WTO rights and obligations, and the implementation of WTO commitments focused on
institution building, domestic reform, stronger inter-ministerial coordination, and linkages with private
sector groups. Growth in Panama will depend upon accelerated growth in investment and exports. The
extent to which WTO and other trade obligations undertaken by Panama are implemented in areas of
transparency, reduction in non-tariff regulatory barriers, consistent application of legal frameworks on
protection of intellectual property rights, and other measures will increase investment prospects and
improve export opportunities. This is especially important for Panama as it seeks to diversify from reliance--
on services and agricultural products to processed foods and manufactured exports.
In order to meet these objectives, Panama requires technical assistance and advice in areas related to
agriculture, technical barriers to trade, and sanitary and phytosanitary standards. Panama lacks
institutional foundations and trained staff to meet requirements, such as those in the Technical Barriers to
Trade (TBT), the Sanitary and Phytosanitary Standards (SPS), and Agriculture Agreement. Strengthened
institutional capacity is necessary to meet WTO obligations which should lead to higher rates of economic
growth, through stronger competition, benefits of liberalized trade regimes, and lower non-tariff barriers to
trade. This is particularly true in regard to meeting international standards for goods and agricultural
products, as well as better trained staff in ministries responsible for WTO implementation, Vice-Ministry
of Commerce for External Trade, the Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission (CLICAC), and
other units of government, such as the Ministry of Agricultural Development.
Strengthen Trade Integration and Capacity Building. Panama's involvement in multilateral, regional,
and bilateral trade talks requires work to strengthen government institutions, particularly in the area of
trade negotiations. The internal staffing, information, analytical systems, negotiating framework and
facilities of the Vice Ministry of External Trade (VICOMEX) remain to be strengthened to meet the
challenges of increasingly complex negotiations. VICOMEX staff need detailed knowledge of trade rules
and practices and their implications for domestic policies, especially in key areas like market access, rules
of origin, technical barriers to trade, services, intellectual property rights, electronic commerce and
environment. They also need to improve skills in negotiating trade agreements to advance Panama's
regional integration objectives. A strategy based on sound capacity building will help overcome these
limitations and facilitate coherence among the multilateral agenda, the different regional integration
initiatives and domestic trade reform. This will in turn ensure the maximization of gains from more open
trade and investment opportunities. Within this context, the project will focus on capacity building of
VICOMEX to: (i) identify, assess, and achieve internal consensus among government agencies and private
sector groups on negotiating positions in multiple trade areas and issues; (ii) develop appropriate
methodologies to follow up and assess progress in negotiations; and (iii) facilitate consistent domestic
implementation and/or harmonization of trade agreements.
Reduce Uncertainty in the Application of the Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade
Law. In 1996 the Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade, known as Law 29, was approved
to support liberalization of trade. This law abolished the Price Control Office, created the Competition and
Consumer Affairs Commission (CLICAC), introduced regulations on competition policy and consumer
protection, and introduced anti-dumping and countervailing duty and safeguards provisions in line with
WTO obligations. In September 1998, the Government under the PPF for the proposed project, enacted
Title I of Law 29, through the Executive Decree No. 31. This Title regulates the nature of monopolistic
practices, and establishes basic principles for the assessment of economic efficiency, definition of relevant
markets and barriers to entry, information and methodology requirements for reviewing mergers and
- 6 -



acquisitions, and key aspects of due process. Currently, thne Government through the PPF is preparing
regulations of Titles II, III, IV and V of Law 29 on consumer protection and trade remedies. Likewise,
with the support of IDB, CLICAC is modernizing its physical infrastructure, informational systems,
databases and human resource profile.
The Government has decided to take the necessary steps to provide a more complete framework for
competition, consumer protection, and unfair trade practices based on international best practices. A
strategy of reducing uncertainty in the application of Law No. 29 by enhancing understanding and
compliance with the principles of competition and consurner protection, and a rational administration of
unfair trade remedies has been preferred over a strategy of maximizing administrative discretion in the
application of the Law, and over direct intervention in business affairs. The Government is also taking
steps to strengthen institutional arrangements and capacity following a consistent strategic plan.
Nonetheless, there are several areas still in need of improvement, in which the project could have a positive
impact. Thus, the project activities have been designed to assist government efforts aimed at ensuring
compliance with the law and internalization of its principles through public education, corporate programs
and advocacy efforts to facilitate changes in policies affecting competition and market transparency.
Contribute to Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector Efficiency
Improve the Quality and Timeliness of Statistical Data. A general concern with Panama's statistics is
the lack of timely reporting, the coverage, and the methodology used for the compilation of data. Despite
recent improvements and efforts of the authorities to broaden the coverage of the national accounts
statistics so as to include enterprises in the Colon Free Zone, efforts are still needed to update the base year
for the national accounts from 1982 to 1996, to produce quarterly GDP data, an4 to introduce a new
methodology for the calculation of the price index. The General Comptroller's Office (CGR) has the
constitutional mandate to provide and maintain national statistics. To that end, the Census and Statistics
Directorate (DEC) was created within CGR. During the last three decades, the Minister of Economy and
Finance (MEF) has collaborated closely with DEC in the process of improving the social and economic
statistic data base through training of staff and its participation in working commissions aimed at
discussing related specific issues. The DEC has also benefited from technical assistance from international
organizations such as IDB and the IMF. However, there is still the concern over the quality and timeliness
of the country's statistical data. In order to improve both, the project would support the modernization of
the DEC through two sub-components: (i) technical assistance, including training, to improve the
methodology of calculation of economic activities, including reverted areas, change of the base year for
national accounts, and production of quarterly GDP data; and (ii) the modernization of the DEC computer
system aimed at speeding up the process to improve quality information and reduce delays.
Strengthen Economic Management. To strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Economy
and Finance while it builds its own capacity, the project will provide for the contracting of advisory
services on macroeconomic policies and experts in specialized fields, aimed at strengthening the country's
ability to design, formulate and implement measures and policies needed to attain growth. The authorities
need, as well, to establish a macroeconomic monitoring system that will allow the ministry to oversee the
development of the annual and medium term economic programming. The project will also support the
drafting of legislation and implementation of economic proposals, follow-up of foreign obligations to
international financial institutions, implementation of the Economic Recovery Plan approved by Congress
in June 2001 aimed at increasing employment, and implernentation of the Public Expenditure
Rationalization Plan approved in May 2001 to strengthen the public finances which remains the key
objective of macroeconomic policy.
-7 -



The Government's structural reform agenda includes measures to redress the existing actuarial imbalance
of the social security system and to support a comprehensive social security reform. However, the IDB will
continue to play the leading role in providing technical assistance to the Government in building
institutional capacity of the Public Employees Pension Fund (SIACAP) and designing a second generation
of reforms. During the process of preparation of the proposed project Bank assistance has concentrated on
providing technical assistance for an actuarial study for the teacher's retirement program that would
establish its feasibility to continue operating and/or the need to adjust contributions. In 1997, Panama
replaced the State Complimentary Pension Fund with SIACAP. As soon as the current Administration
arrived, the Teacher's Union initiated negotiations to establish a retirement program that would assure the
same benefits as under the replaced pension fund. To support negotiations, the Government needed a
specific study on the actuarial evaluation of the teachers' retirement plan, and asked the Bank to finance the
study under the PPF. Based on this assistance the Government has already prepared the Retirement Plan
for Public Sector Teachers, which was created by Law No. 54, on December 27, 2000.
ImDrove Public Social Spendinz and Reduce Poverty
Despite Panama's relatively high income per capita and high levels of social spending, a large share of the
population continues to live in poverty. Over a million people (37 percent of the population) live below the
poverty line, and of these, over one half (19 percent) live in extreme poverty. One half of all Panamanian
children are poor. Poverty is particularly high in rural areas (65 percent of the rural population). Almost
all residents of indigenous areas are poor (95 percent), and a significant share of these live in extreme
poverty (85 percent of the population of these areas). Panama is a country that has one of the most
unequal income distribution, with a consumption Gini of 49 and an income Gini of 60. Moreover, low
performance on social indicators persists for many segments of the population although public spending on
the social sectors currently absorbs about 20 percent of GDP, putting Panama among the top social
spenders in the region. The poor have lower life expectancy, higher rates of infant mortality, a higher share
of deaths from curable infectious and communicable diseases, and substantial educational gaps.
Facing this situation, the Govermment has made poverty reduction its top priority and the main principles of
the social development strategy, that include: (i) generating opportunities for productive employment; (ii)
improving access by the poor to basic social services; (iii) promoting social participation and
decentralization; and (iv) promoting sustainability in social policies and programs. The strategy also
strongly emphasizes the need to improve the equity, targeting and efficiency of public social spending and
interventions throughout the discussion of strategic areas for action in various sectors. The Bank has been a
partner to the Government over the past few years, providing support to the first comprehensive assessment
of poverty and to the development of the Government's strategy via IDF Grant No. 27582-PA, as well as
providing specific support under the PPF during the course of project preparation. This background
provides a comparative advantage for continued support as the Government improves the effectiveness of
public spending and better monitors poverty and strategy implementation.
The proposed project seeks to provide technical assistance to the Government intended to develop
evaluation, monitoring, and targeting tools for poverty and poverty-reduction. In this context, the
proposed component would provide technical assistance in four key areas, including: (i) the preparation of
a second survey of living conditions; (ii) carrying out a comprehensive, specialized study of public social
spending; (iii) conducting thorough poverty and vulnerability analyses using data generated by the survey;
and (iv) developing a poverty monitoring system and strengthening Panama's Social Policy Directorate.
- 8 -



Improve the Public Procurement System
There is overall consensus among government officials and the private sector that the public procurement
process in Panama is lengthy and cumbersome, and therefore, costly. The main factors causing those
problems are: (i) an incomplete legal framework, overlapping regulations and conflicting interpretations;
(ii) cumbersome procedures, lack of uniformity in application of the law among sectors and agencies, and
lack of standard documents; (iii) weak institutional mechanisms to develop and ensure implementation of
policy and regulation; (iv) weak implementation capacity at the agency level due to limited procurement
staff capacity due to the lack of a procurement career stream, insufficient training and high staff turn over;
and (v) absence of a comprehensive national information system on procurement. The Government has
identified the improvement of the procurement system as a key element for attaining transparency and
efficiency in public expenditure. The project will support specific actions, such as: an overall review of
existing procurement and related regulations; the strengthening of the Public Procurement General
Directorate (DGCP), including the study of alternatives that enhance its policy making role; the
strengthening of the Government agencies' procurement units; and the establishment of a Public
Procurement Information System and setting the basis for Electronic Government Procurement (EGP).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
A. Supportine Trade Reform and Institutional Capacity
A.1 Implementing WTO commitments. This sub-component will support the strengthening of the
Government 's capacity to: (i) implement WTO commitrnents in key areas of technical regulations
(Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement), sanitary and phyto-sanitary standards (SPS Agreement), and
methodologies for notifications under the Agriculture Agreement; (ii) participate in negotiations at the
WTO on market access issues in preparation for a new multilateral trade negotiating round; (iii) support a
well functioning WTO office able to attend inquiries and notifications on sanitary and phyto-sanitary
standards and technical regulations; (iv) prepare consistent and integrated domestic policy reform programs
with multilateral and regional trade initiatives; (v) modernize databases on patents and trademarks in
support of protection of intellectual property rights, including indigenous groups; and (vi) establish a new
information center on regulations and standards under the jurisdiction of MICI-VICOMEX This work will
be closely coordinated with MICI VICOMEX, CLICAC, and private sector groups.With the support of
the PPF, the Government drafted the legislation to implement the WTO SPS Agreement. The project will
support additional work leading to formal enactment and implementation of the SPS Agreement.
A.2 Building institutional capacity for trade negotiations. Since 1999, Panama is committed to
negotiating a free trade agreement with Central America in addition to the FTAA negotiations.
MICI-VICOMEX has been facing technical and human resource limitations to effectively handle
increasingly demanding and complex negotiations in multiple trade areas and fora, and at the same time
fulfill its commitments and internal consultations with private sector groups and government agencies. At
present, MICI-VICOMEX lacks adequate access to data to monitor negotiations, trained negotiators on
regional trade issues and negotiating techniques, and capacity to assess trade obligations, impacts on
domestic sectors, and coordinate with different groups to determine negotiating positions. These limitations
also apply to Panama's participation in WTO negotiations and compliance with procedures under the WTO
agreements, as well as to its capacity to coordinate the implementation of commitments in domestic
legislation.
-9-



This sub-component will support Panama's multilateral, bilateral, and regional integration efforts
principally through: (i) procurement of information technology equipment, software and hardware, and
technical advice and training to establish a database and research systems to facilitate trade negotiations;
(ii) technical assistance to assess export opportunities/challenges, industry advantages in terms of scale,
value-added and specialization, trade creation/diversion, and other factors involved in trade agreements;
(iii) capacity building at MICI-VICOMEX for identifying, assessing, achieving internal consensus,
negotiating and implementing/harmonizing trade agreements (in-house training and simulation workshops
for negotiators, identification of linkages between different negotiating policy areas, and coordination
mechanisms among different government agencies responsible for trade policy matters as well as with
private sector constituencies); and (iv) cross-cutting and multi-sector studies and diagnostics.
A.3 Implementing the Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy Law. This
sub-component would support CLICAC's efforts to strengthen and consolidate the implementation of Law
No. 29. This task will focus on three goals to: (i) improve the regulatory, analytical and enforcement
capabilities of CLICAC through sector-specific studies/assessments, methodological guidelines, and
internal operational manuals to address consumer complaints/disputes, requests for ISO certification,
consumer complaints and trade remedy measures; (ii) procure laboratory equipment and provide staff
training to support CLICAC's work on technical standards and legal metrology; (iii) develop a
comprehensive training program for CLICAC's and the competition tribunal's staff on best
enforcement/compliance practices regarding Law No. 29; and (iv) develop programs aimed at public
dissemination, voluntary corporate compliance and enhancing CLICAC's advocacy capacity to deal with
interface issues between competition and other related-public policy areas. This component, particularly in
the areas of trade remedy policy and standards and metrology, must be closely coordinated with MICI as
well as the WTO inquiry point on technical regulations and DGNTI-administration of General Rules and
Industrial Technology.
B. Contributingz to Fiscal Sustainabilitv and Public Sector Efficiency
B.A Improving the quality and timeliness of macroeconomic data. This sub-component will support the
modernization of Census and Statistics Directorate (DEC) through: (i) technical assistance to improve the
methodology of calculation of economic activities, including reverted areas, to change the base year of the
national accounts, and produce quarterly GDP data; and (ii) modernization of DEC's computer system of
the census and statistics office, aimed at speeding up the process of improving the quality of statistical
information and reduce delays.
B.2 Strengthening the ability to analyze, design and implement growth strategies. This sub-component
will support and strengthen the institutional capacity of the Finance Minister's Office (Despacho Superior)
to: (i) provide technical advise to the Minister on macroeconomic policies; (ii) improve the Ministry's
capability to design, formulate and implement short, medium and long term macroeconomic policies; (iii)
promote consistency of economic policies across ministries and related agencies; (iv) monitor
macroeconomic performance; and (v) participate and lead the debt reduction management scheme. To
accomplish this mission the Minister's Office needs qualified professionals with experience in economic
policy formulation and analysis. At the same time, the MEF will need advisory services on specialized
issues and fields.
C. Improving social spendin! and reducin2 poverty
The Government is fully aware of the need to reduce inefficiencies and inequities in public social spending,
as highlighted its Social Development Strategy. The proposed project would support these efforts by
- 10 -



providing tools for monitoring and evaluation of poverty and interventions. It would also support the
development of criteria to improve the targeting of public social spending and poverty reduction programs.
A crucial input into these actions is the implementation of a second survey of living conditions. This survey
would allow for an updating of key indicators of poverty and living conditions, which are crucial for
poverty monitoring. It would also include specific components designed to help evaluate the incidence and
impact of public spending on key programs and sectors in Panama.
In this context, this component will provide support to: (i) the preparation and implementation of the second
survey of living conditions (Encuesta Nacional de Niveles de Vida, ENI-2003); (ii) comprehensive studies
of the incidence, efficiency and impact of public social spending; (iii) poverty and vulnerability analyses
using data generated by the ENV 2003; and (iv) the development of a poverty monitoring system and the
strengthening of the Social Policy Department in MEF. The outputs expected to emerge from this support
include: (i) a detailed action plan for implementing the poverty strategy; (ii) clear recommendations and an
action plan for improving the efficiency of public spending; and (iii) a system for monitoring poverty and
the implementation of the strategy and actions plans.
D. Streng!thening the Public Procurement System
D.1 Improving the public procurement legal framework. This sub-component will support an overall
review of existing procurement and related regulations, and the drafting and processing of an amendment to
the law, known as Law 56, and comprehensive regulatory decree, using a participatory mechanism
(workshops) to involve all stakeholders. The amendment to the Public Procurement Law would aim at
strengthening the lead policy, regulatory and institution building role of the Public Procurement General
Directorate (DGCP), closing existing loopholes, and removing inconsistencies.
D.2 Building institutional capacity for handling procurement. The Government believes that it is
necessary to strengthen the capacity for handling public procurement and this sub-component will support
the strengthening of the DGCP and the Government agencies' procurement units to provide them with the
resources to carry out their duties and to undertake a phased program aimed at: (i) developing standard
procedures and bidding documents of general application nationwide; (ii) reviewing and adjusting
procedures; (iii) developing and implementing a human resources policy; (iv) carrying out an assessment
of available human resources; (v) and, designing and implementing a training program for procurement
officials.
D.3 Developing a public procurement system. This sub-component will support the establishment of a
Public Procurement Information System and setting the basis for Electronic Government Procurement
(EGP). The project will finance technical assistance, training and equipment for the development if this
system.
E. Proiect Managzement
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Technical Unit of Public Policy in the Ministry of Economy
and Finance will be the principal unit overseeing the design and implementation of the program. The PCU
will be headed by a National Director and staffed by national and international consultants, as needed, with
relevant experiences in the field. The PCU will be responsible for the coordination with implementing
institutions (MEF, MICI, CLICAC and DGR). The PCU will be responsible for the administration of
project funds, monitoring and reporting, and contracting procedures. The implementing functional
institutions will be responsible for defining and developing work programs, substantive oversight of
consultants and systems implementation, and management of training activities.
- 11 -



CCent;          0Sector                  Costs     % of    financng   XBank-o 
A. Supporting Trade Reforrn and   Other Economic      5.40      40.0      3.53      33.6
Institutional Capacity            Policy
B. Contributing to Fiscal Sustainability  Other Economic  1.50  11.1      1.41       13.4
and Public Sector Efficiency      Policy
C. Improving Social Spending and  Human               3.01      22.3      2.70      25.7
Reducing Poverty                  Development
D. Strengthening Public Procurement   Other Public    1.10       8.1      1.00        9.5
System                            Sector
Management
E. Project Management             Institutional       2.39      17.7      1.75       16.7
Development
Total Project Costs                 13.40      99.2      10.39      99.0
Interest during construction                0.00       0.0      0.00       0.0
Front-end fee                   0.11       0.8       0.11       1.0
Total Financing Required                   13.51     100.0     10.50     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project is aimed at building institutional capacity to implement the already agreed reforms
and designing of selected new reforms in trade and trade negotiations, competition and consumer
protection, economic monitoring, social spending, and public procurement. The key areas of support will
include:
Trade Reform and Capacity Building. Supporting a reform grounded in a strengthened capacity to
exercise WTO rights and obligations, and the implementation of WTO agreements, in targeted areas of
technical barriers to trade, standards, sanitary and phytosanitary standards, and agriculture.
Trade Negotiations and Evaluations. Focusing on capacity building of government agencies and private
sector groups for negotiating positions in multiple trade areas and issues, and facilitating consistent
domestic implementation and/or harmonization of trade agreements.
Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policies. Improving the regulatory and technical
capabilities of CLICAC.
Economic Monitoring. Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MEF to formulate and implement
economic policies and supporting the modernization of the statistics office aimed at improving quality
information and its delivery.
Poverty and social spending. Supporting the poverty reduction strategy of the Government aimed at
giving access by the poor to basic social services and promoting sustainability in social policies and
programs, and strengthening the agencies responsible for this objective.
Procurement. Improving the procurement legal framework, strengthening of the procurement regulatory
body and of Government agencies' procurement units, including training of personnel and dissemination of
information, and developing a public procurement information system.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Effective implementation of the project would benefit the public sector entities, users of government
services and private enterprises. Specifically, benefits would include: (i) enhanced consumer welfare in
terms of lower prices and better quality products, and improvement in Panama's international competitive
position; (ii) enhanced work environment and advanced training in selected areas for government agencies
staff; (iii) the provision of a sustainable operational framework for the public sector teacher's retirement
program; (iv) the improvement in the allocation and quality of public spending on social sectors and its
direct impact on the population, particularly the poorest and indigenous groups; and (v) more efficient, less
costly and transparent public procurement derived from the modernization of the system and its rules which
would benefit the entire population by improving government effectiveness, efficiency and transparency.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period. Four years, from 2002 to 2005.
Project Implementation and Coordination. Coordination of the overall project implementation would be
the responsibility of the Technical Unit of Public Policies ( UTPP) in the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, which will be the unit responsible for ensuring consistent implementation of the proposed project
and achievement of its objectives.
The Ministry of Commerce and Industries, CLICAC, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the
General Comptroller's Office (CGR), are the institutions responsible for defining and developing work
programs, substantive oversight of consultants, management of training activities, and the implementation
of the components on trade reform, fiscal sustainability, social spending and poverty, and public
procurement system. The project unit created under the UTPP will act as the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) responsible for the general coordination and execution of project activities. The PCU will be headed
by a Director acting as a National Director and staffed with national and international consultants with
expertise in different fields, including: public policy, competition and trade, administration, and
procurement, to assist sectors agencies in the preparation and implementation of project activities. To
reduce the administrative burden at the PCU it is anticipated that UNDP will be contracted to assist in the
hiring and payment of consultants and procurement of goods and services. The PCU will remain
responsible for identifying, selecting, and supervising consultants in conjunction with executing agencies,
and in procuring goods and training.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
The PCU will be responsible for the accounting and reporting requirements to the Bank. It will maintain
records and accounts consistent with the Bank requirements to enable appropriate financial management
during project implementation. The PCU will prepare quarterly reports showing: (i) project progress by
component; and (ii) related quarterly and cumulative expenditures. The Chart of Accounts established for
registering all project financial transactions will provide the basis for the preparation of each fiscal year's
Project Financial Statements. These Financial Statements, together with those reflecting the UNDP
Account transactions and balances and the Statement of E,xpenditures (SOEs), will be audited by
independent accountants acceptable to the Bank, following Terms of Reference provided by the Bank.
Supporting documentation will be maintained and made available to Bank missions and independent
auditors as required. All records evidencing project financial activity will be retained by the PCU until at
least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Loan Account or payment out of UNDP Account, whichever is later, is made. Audit reports will
be furnished to the Bank within six months of the close of the Government's fiscal year.
- 13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
At the time the 1998 CAS for Panama was prepared, the proposed project was expected to be processed
and approved together with the Public Policy Reform and Adjustment Loan (PPRAL). The PPRAL,
approved in FY99, was designed to support reforms aimed at: (i) deepening the trade reform process; (ii)
implementing a framework for competition policy to complement the trade reform; (iii) implementing a
private pension regime for state employees as a first step within the social security reform; and (iv)
developing and implementing a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan. As envisaged
in the CAS, the proposed project was expected to provide technical assistance to support those reforms and
to lay the groundwork through studies and draft legislation for others, such as a comprehensive social
security, tax and civil service reforms, which could be implemented by the then incoming administration.
In the event, the Government moved ahead with the trade, competition, implementation of the pension
regime for state employees and the poverty reduction strategy supported by the PPRAL, but felt that it
would be best to leave even the design of the remaining agenda, especially in the areas of social security,
civil service reform and transport sector policies, to the new Administration. So, the PPRAL was approved
in FY99 as the Government implemented reforms, but the proposed project was put on hold pending
discussion with the new Administration.
As soon as it assumed office, the new Administration began reviewing the scope and description of the
proposed project, and alternative sources of financing. Because of its previous involvement, the IDB was
asked to provide support for the design and implementation of the social security reform. Given its initial
priority on policies aimed at accelerating growth and targeting poverty, the Government requested that the
proposed project be focused mainly on implementing the already agreed reform agenda in those areas,
specifically with respect to implementation of trade agreements, regional integration, competition and
consumer protection legislation, improving the quality of macroeconomic data and improving social
spending to reduce poverty. At the same time, the Government requested that the scope of the technical
assistance under the proposed project be expanded to include also the implementation of other institutional
measures to support its economic program, as well as the design of limited future reforms. A technical
assistance loan is considered the most appropriate vehicle for channeling Bank assistance since the
objective of the proposed project is fundamentally one of providing technical advisory services, both to
strengthen institutional capacity for implementing agreed reforms and designing new ones.
It was decided that the social security reform component under this project should reduce its scope to allow
IDB to continue playing the leading role in providing technical assistance in building institutional capacity
of the SIACAP and designing a second generation of social security reforms. The Bank would concentrate
on technical assistance for an actuarial study for the teachers retirement program that would establish its
feasibility to continue operating. With respect to the civil service reform, the Government decided to do the
reform without the Bank's assistance. From a technical viewpoint, the Government considered adopting a
strategy that would allow partial implementation of this reform supported by the existing normative
framework. As for the previously envisioned support for the transport sector, it was agreed that the
preparation of the legislation and regulations to introduce competition in freight and passenger
transportation would be financed by the government. A new project component on Public Procurement was
added at the request of the Government as there is a consensus among government officials and private
sector that the public procurement system needs to be more transparent, efficient and cost effective.
- 14-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Economic Development and          Economic Recovery Loan           S             S
Modernization, including:         3438-PA. (comnpleted).
Public Enterprise Reform and
Privatization
Trade and Tax Reform
Labor Market Reform
Social Security Reform.
Public Policy reform, including:  Public Policy Reform             S             S
Trade Reform                      Adjustment Loan - PPRAL.
Domestic Competition Reform       Loan 44100-PA. (completed).
Social Security Reform
Poverty Reduction Strategy.
Poverty Alleviation, sustainable  Rural Poverty and Natural        S             S
agriculture, small-scale forestry, and   Resources Project. Loan
rural development.                41580-PA.
Poverty reduction, including:     Social Investment Fund (FIS).    S             S
Priority infrastructure           Loan 41910-PA.
Basic services
Productive activities.
Sustainable Social Development, by:   Strengthening of Institutional  S          S
strengthening social policy formulation, Capacity for the Design,
coordination analysis, monitoring and  Evaluation and Formulation of
evaluation.                       Social policies (IDF Grant).
Technical assistance for design of  TA for preparation of the      S             S
project components, assessment of  Poverty Reduction and
institutional capacity and project  Community Development
coordination.                     Project (PHRI) Grant)
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank   Social Security Reform (Loan
PN-0056)
Inter-American Development Bank   Strengthening of the Anti-Trust
System (IDB-MIF -
TC-97-09-38-0)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Key lessons learned from Bank technical assistance projects in the areas of public and private sector and
applied in this operation include: (i) the need for borrower commitment and strong project leadership; (ii) a
flexible project design that builds on policies and issues where the Bank has previous involvement; and (iii)
institutional capacity building of key public sector agencies to ensure sustainability.
Strong borrower commitment, leadership and implementation capacity. The Government has
expressed its strong commitment by establishing and maintaining a well trained Project Coordination Unit,
within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, that has been successfully implementing a PHRD grant and a
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and will continue to be in charge of the overall coordination of the
project components. Additionally, Government officials, including ministers, will be "key actors" for full
implementation of the activities agreed with them during the identification, design and appraisal stages.
Counterparts have been instrumental in the design of each component and activities and would be
responsible for deepening the reforms already initiated under the Public Policy Reform Adjustment Loan
(PPRAL) and supporting the policies under the present Government's economic program. Every effort has
been made to have reliable and realistic performance indicators for each component. Sufficient resources
are allocated to have a strong monitoring and feedback mechanisms for timely supervision and project
internal control. Terms of reference for work to be carried out during the initial phase of the project have
been already prepared and incorporated into the project implementation plan. Arrangements have been put
in place to ensure project consistency while assigning day to day activity execution to sectoral agencies.
Coordination with other sector projects financed by the Bank and other financial institutions was done to
ensure a coherent approach and sustainability.
Flexible project design that builds on policies and issues where the Bank has previous involvements.
The proposed project adopted a flexible design base on close consultation with Government counterparts
and building on areas where the Bank has had strong involvement and policy dialogue with the
Government. These include trade and competition reforms supported under the Public Policy Reform
Adjustment Loan (PPRAL), poverty analyses and monitoring building on the Bank's Poverty Assessment
prepared in close collaboration with the Government, and public procurement reform building on the recent
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) carried out by the Bank in collaboration with the
Government and continued policy advice in this area.
Institutional capacity building of key public sector agencies to ensure sustainability. Project design
evolved after close consultation with the Government on its development priorities and the identification of
key institutional weaknesses that will hinder policy formulation and implementation of reforms. The project
aims to strengthen institutional capacity to formulate policies, implement policies and monitor outcomes in
areas critical to the Government's development agenda.
Finally, as the Bank has learned, the project will be implemented taking into account that: (i) it is necessary
to deliver tangible results as early as possible, demonstrating and disseminating them among key
stakeholders, in order to create a wider understanding and support to reforms; and (ii) it is important to
establish a clear link between system improvements and broader economic and social goals to foster
sustainability.
- 16-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
All project components are designed to support ongoing priority reforms of the Government and have been
prepared in close consultation with the Bank. The main goals of this project are to support trade reform and
institutional capacity, contribute to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency, improve social
spending and reduce poverty, and strengthen public procurement. The preparation of the project started
under a former Administration, but the new Administration asked the
Bank to continue with the process and after introducing changes in the structure of the components and the
scope of the project, reaffirmed its commitment.
In relation to trade policy, the Government's commitment to the project is demonstrated by: (i) clear
identification of several areas that require strengthening of key public sector agencies, such as the Vice
Ministry of External Trade that will be responsible for the implementation of the WTO commitments and
strengthening required legal domestic frameworks; (ii) establishment of multilateral, regional, and bilateral
trade talks as the main priority of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; (iii) negotiations with Central
America and the FTAA are considered of high priority in Panama's trade agenda and despite difficulties
due to lack of human resources, commitment by Government officials has been expressed in favor of an
ambitious multilateral and regional integration strategy; and (iv) discussions with Government authorities
and several important economic sectors indicate that there is a generalized support for competition and
consumer protection policy. CLICAC's commitment to implementing the Law is clear and underscored by
a very good track record for implementing the technical assistance program initiated under the PPF as well
as under IDB's FOMIN program. Furthermore, the Government has already gone a long way in terms of
trade policy reform and is publicly committed to liberalizing Panama's trade regime.
Finally, two instruments signed by the former government but supported fully by the current
administration, highlight the main areas of concern and political support: (i) the Public Policy Reform
Adjustment Loan that supported the former administration's economic program and aimed at deepening the
trade reform, implementing a framework for competition policy, and correcting the causes for unfair
distribution and poverty in Panama; and (ii) the Poverty Reduction Strategy 1998-2003 that rests on two
pillars: the introduction of reforms aimed at increasing economic growth and reducing the cost of living,
and improving the efficiency and equity of public spending in order to guarantee that those advantages
benefit the poor. In fact, this Administration hs made poverty reduction its main priority.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has unique knowledge and expertise in trade policy reform and development. This includes areas
related to institutional capacity and training, as well as global leadership in best practice in trade policy
making and public sector reform. The work of the World Bank Institute (WBI) on trade policy capacity
building and analysis of the Bank on critical elements of trade and development continue as best practice
examples for governments and other institutions. The Bank also has world leadership in the areas of
standards, non-tariff technical barriers, and the institutional capacity building necessary to sustain
economic growth in a development context. In the field of competition law policy and consumer protection,
the Bank also has unique expertise. This is not limited to single national or regional model but spans
international best practices, enjoying a leadership position in this field among international/multilateral
organizations. This trade-related component will be the backbone of international assistance strategy in the
field of competition policy and consumer protection; prospective arrangements with IDB and USAID are
expected to provide a supporting role, mainly in terms of equipment and infrastructure, and limited
technical assistance in selected areas.
- 17-



The Bank's worldwide experience will also provide high quality technical advise in public policy reforms,
public sector efficiency, economic management and public social expenditure; convey credibility and
transparency to the reform effort; and promote efficient and effective use of the resources supporting the
Government's program. The Bank is in a unique position to support efforts at implementing public and
private sector reforms that require strong government determination, sizable resources, and close
monitoring of reform progress.
The Bank's in-depth involvement with Panama in the areas of public policy reform through the
PPRAL( 1998); first phase of social security reform through (ERL- 1992/97); Panama Poverty Assessment
(PPA-2000); and Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR-FYO1) provides unique knowledge and
expertise in specific fields. The Bank is, therefore, providing technical advise in areas of great expertise as
is trade, competition and consumer protection; social security system and actuarial studies on social
security programs; extent and determinants of poverty and inequality and how to increase the efficiency in
social spending to improve its investment impact on human capital; and public procurement reform and
how to strengthen institutional procurement capacity in Government ministries and agencies. The IDB
involvement is focused on administrative and institutional capacity building and complements the Bank's
project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
During appraisal, the project financial impact was analyzed and considered sustainable. It was concluded
that the project cost should be more than compensated by improved institutional managerial capacities, a
functioning trade and competition system, and greater accountability of government agencies.
Fiscal Impact:
Project costs: Total project costs are estimated at US$13.5 million, of which US$10.5 million would be
financed by the Bank and US$3.0 million would be financed by the Government.
Project Benefits: The project will have fiscal impact over time, but will not generate any direct income or
benefits against which costs could be compared. However, it is expected that a new procurement system,
supported by legal and institutional reforms, will lead to a more efficient, effective and transparent public
sector, with positive effects on ethical behavior and commitment to public service. The public policy
reforms supported by the project would promote foreign trade and investment, commercial integration, and
poverty reduction, among other aspects of government activity.
Several fiscal issues are to be addressed during project execution. For instance, the assessment of the
actuarial deficit as a result of the restructuring of the teacher's national pension scheme will have positive
fiscal impact and the improvement of the efficiency and targeting of public social spending under the
poverty component would improve the allocation of fiscal resources and service delivery.
- 18-



In the area of trade, sanitary and phytosanitary standards, technical norms and import operation procedures
can be used to promote trade and avoid price distortions,. Strengthened trade reform will assist Panama in
lowering non-tariff barriers, as well as providing the basis for stronger product quality, protection for
intellectual property rights, among other benefits. The project will pay special attention to ensure that the
regulations and institutional programs prepared are pro-trade and in agreement with international
commitments that WTO-related components of the project are implemented and coordinated with other
components. It is estimated, that the expected increase in trade and competition by the proposed reform
efforts will exceed the cost of the project in the medium and long-term.
3. Technical:
The project's technical approach regarding policy reforrns, multilateral trade, regional integration,
competition, and poverty reduction is designed and would be developed in accordance to current best
practices. Special attention will be given to the technical assistance provided so that international quality
experts are contracted, training of locals during the project life is given to maintain project quality and
sustainability, and information technology would remain flexible to be able to capture the more advanced,
cheaper and faster technology available. The tasks to be undertaken under this project are demanding but
feasible, assuming Government commitment to the public policy reform program and adequate technical
and project management leadership.
4. Institutional:
Several agencies would benefit from the technical assistance targeted by the project, especially, the
Ministry of Economy and Finance -the General Directorate of Public Procurement and the Directorate of
Social Policy-, the Ministry of Commerce and Industries, the General Comptroller's Office -the
Directorate of Statistic and Census- and the Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission. The technical
assistance provided is considered sufficient to implement identified reforms.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) - Public Policies Technical Unit (UTPP) through the PCU
will be responsible for the overall project coordination and its execution. Technical expertise will be hired
to facilitate project implementation in each government agency. The Ministry of Commerce and Industries
- Vice-ministry of Internal Trade (VICOMIN) and Vice-Ministry of External Trade (VICOMEX), and the
Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission (CICLAC) will be responsible for the implementation of
the component on trade reform and institutional capacity. The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF),
the Directorate of Social Policy and the General Directorate of Public Procurement, will be in charge of the
implementation of the components on fiscal sustainability, social spending and poverty reduction, and
improvement of the Public Procurement System, respectively.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Public Policy Technical Unit has been acting as the
coordination unit for the administration and monitoring of the PPF and a PHRD grant and will continue to
be responsible for coordination of all project activities. The PCU Director, acting as National Director for
the purpose of carrying out this project, as well as the assignment of other staff to the PCU are considered
necessary conditions for loan effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
To reduce the administrative burden, it is anticipated that UNDP will be contracted to assist in the hiring
and payment of consultants and procurement of goods and services. The PCU will be responsible for
carrying out the overall procurement process in conjunction with the executing agencies. A procurement
assessment has been completed and an annual action plan agreed upon.
- 19 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
In accordance with present Bank procedures, a Bank Financial Management Specialist has carried out a
financial management assessment of the project unit. For the weaknesses identified, a time-bound action
plan incorporating the required improvements has been agreed with the project management.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed project is expected to have no environmental impact
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Panama's interest in regional agreements takes place against a backdrop of increased outward orientation,
exhibited in unilateral reforms as well as increased membership and substantive participation in the work of
the WTO. Thus further expansion of market access through regional integration will provide additional
trade opportunities for nontraditional exports and will boost the investment climate in Panama. Moreover,
regional integration will inject additional competitive incentives to the domestic market. As firms improve
their international competitiveness within preferential areas, innovation and consolidation of synergies
among complementary sectors will emerge. All these expected outcomes will contribute to the creation of
job opportunities, to economic growth and poverty alleviation.
The social spending and poverty reduction component through the preparation and implementation of the
second survey of living conditions, studies of the incidence, efficiency and impact of public social spending,
poverty and vulnerability analyses, and the development of a poverty monitoring system and the
strengthening of the Social Policy Department will reduce inefficiencies and inequities in private and social
spending and will create strategic planning and monitoring tools for more effective and better targeted
anti-poverty programs.
A new procurement information system should have a positive impact in at least three levels: (i) improved
technical quality and quantity of public services; (ii) better quality of delivery and responsiveness to
citizens' demands; and (iii) greater accountability, transparency and confidence in the public
- 20 -



administration.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project was prepared with the collaboration of responsible governent agencies in the area of public
policy, trade, competition, consumer protection, poverty, public procurement, etc. Primary beneficiaries
and other affected groups were consulted by CLICAC, MEF and other senior executive branch authorities,
particularly, in the design and development of the policy and institutional strengthening efforts. Think
tanks, academic groups, and business associations also reviewed the activities under the project
components.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Government's economic, social and financial program was discussed with NGOs and other civil society
organizations, including academic institutions. The initiatives of this project have been reviewed with the
most prominent local think tanks, academic groups and business associations, particularly, the challenges
faced in trade, competition, procurement and poverty.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project is designed to improve the institutional capacity within the Government and to promote policy
reform focused to better meet its service delivery and social development responsibilities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Project performance will be monitored by: (i) project supervision carried out by the Bank team; (ii) reports
prepared by the PCU semi-annually; (iii) 2002 survey on living standards; and (iv) specialized studies on
public social spending.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safe d policies aply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       O Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 21 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Export diversification and expansion of non-traditional exports remain key strategies to accelerate growth
in Panama. This is reflected in three related components of the project: (i) implementation of WTO
commitments; (ii) support to negotiations of regional trade agreements; and (iii) implementation of
domestic competition, consumer protection and unfair trade laws. Improved efficiency, consumer welfare,
and employment creation would minimize the potential risks of failure and will enhance competitiveness.
Given the "open" nature of Panama's trade agreement negotiating strategy, regional integration with
Westem Hemisphere countries will bring additional benefits of increased market access. There is reason to-
believe that regional integration would be an additional force behind further liberalization of trade and
investment.
Changes in social and economic statistical data will have positive impact on the quality, transparency and
timeliness of the information allowing better allocation of social expenditures and improvement of targeted
social programs supporting poverty reduction. Furthermnore, the proposed project supports advisory
services on issues related to economic policies aimed at sustaining growth in the long term. Finally, the
implementation of a more transparent and less costly procurement system will make public expenditure
efficiency sustainable.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Rislk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Inadequate implementation of WTO           M         Increasing involvement of private sector and
commitments, lack of government                      officials from the Ministry of Commerce and
coordination in negotiations of WTO                  Industry and related ministries in the definition
obligations and initiatives.                         of negotiating policies and work program.
Inadequate technical capacity of           M         Active support of the Government. Project
VICOMEX and related agencies to                      management regular contact with management
negotiate integration agreements, and/or             of VICOMEX to ensure that it deploys the
pressures from interested groups for                 necessary resources for project completion.
preferential access and for protectionist            Private sector involvement in the definition of
measures.                                            negotiating policies and negotiations.
Inadequate implementation of Law No. 29    M         Rally private sector and other stakeholders
on Competition, Consumer Protection and              support to minimize the likelihood of a policy
Unfair Trade Policy; Govemment policy                reversal. Close coordination with the Bank.
reversal; and failure of private sector to
support the policy.
CLICAC failure to commit enough            M         Project management should maintain regular
financial and human resources to project             contact with senior management of CLICAC to
implementation.                                      ensure that the institution deploys the necessary
resources for timely project completion.
Lack of commitment to support the          M         An agreement should be signed to establish the
modernization of the DEC and failure to              respective roles of each institution in this
have the proper coordination between                 activity.
MEF and DEC
Delay in the design and execution of       M         Timely preparation and funding
survey 2002 on living conditions.
- 22 -



Delays in the implementation of the        M         Government commitment and active support
internet-based public procurement                    from the MEF
information system
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate commitment and technical        M         Inter-sector coordination and capacity building
capacity of government agencies to                   mechanisms, extensive training of counterparts,
implement and sustain initiatives.                   and development of internal and public
communications program.
Inadequate legal framework                 M         Public and private support to reforms. Reform
implementation due to pressures from                 should be viewed by the public as a positive step
interested groups.                                   in increasing the efficiency, transparency and
responsiveness of government.
The government may be unable to hire       M         Since Government pay levels exceed those in
and retain individuals of a higher quality           private sector recruitment should be feasible.
than currently employed.
Delays in making key decisions at critical  M        The sequential nature of the project and the
stages of the project.                               involvement of consulting firms should minimize
this risk.
Inadequate counterpart funding.            M         Government funding is small enough as to
assure timely availability.
Overall Risk Rating                        M         I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The authorities have agreed to:
(i) prepare a Project Operational Manual with a detailed description of procurement and financial
management
responsibilities and processes;
(ii) prepare a Procurement Action Plan for project activities to be carried out during the first year;
(iii) sign contract with UNDP;
(iv) staff properly the PCU; and
(v) sign inter-institutional administrative arrangements with executing agencies.
- 23 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D1 4. The following items are lackdng and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
LI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Lucia A)Ersn/mesEo May                                          Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
'Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-24 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Key Perfonnance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Almumpons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To accelerate economic    Implementation of Public   Regular reports of the    Political commnitment and
growth and reduce poverty by Policies and Institutional  Ministry of Economy and  Government capacity to adopt
fostering competition and  Reforms.                  Finance, the Ministry of  and maintain policy reforms
private sector development,                         C2ommerce and Industries, the
contributing to fiscal    Institutional strengthening    Competition and Consumer
sustainability and improving  indicators drawn by the  Affairs Commission
public sector efficiency.  Government and the Bank    (CLICAC) and the Census
staff                     and Statistics Directorate
(PEC).
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Project Development       Implementation of WTO      Ministry of Commerce and   Political comrmitment and
Objective:                commitments, related to:   ]ndustries reports.       Govermnent capacity to
reduction in non-tariff                             implement policies.
To strengthen the         barriers, full establishment of
Government's economic     new and strengthened
monitoring and planning,    government offices related to
trade policy formulation and  technical regulation,
execution capacity.       standards, agriculture, quality,
patents, and trademarks.
Reduction of tariffs and  Ministry of Commerce and
non-tariff barriers to trade and Industries reports.
investment as a result of
evaluations, training, and
capacity building in trade.
Full implementation of Law   CLICAC reports and
No. 29 and operation of the   publications in the Official
(CLICAC).                 Gazette.
Establishment of a Public  Project Coordination Unit
Sector Teacher's Retirement  reports
Plan.
Reorientation of social   Monitoring system and
programs through the      progress reports on annual
improvement of data on    basis.
poverty and social spending.
Appropriate changes in    Monitoring system and
public procurement laws and  progress report
regulations.
- 25 -



Hiearcy o OtJoclve  InI~ao-  Monto ing                          i Eau tin    Critical Assump-tio I
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Trade Reform and
Institutional Capacity
Implementation of WTO    WTO commitments in key    Official Gazette publication,  Government engaged in
commitments and capacity  areas of agriculture, technical Bank and VICOMEX    implementation of
building in trade reform.    regulations, sanitary and  progress reports.     commitments and further
phytosanitary standards                             negotiation of WTO
implemented by end-2004.                            obligations and initiatives.
Training programs         Progress reports and case    Increasing involvement of
established for           studies prepared by Bank and  private sector in the definition
MICI-VICOMEX staff on    VICOMEX.                   of negotiating policies
multilateral obligations and
rights, through 2002-2003.
VICOMEX and Bank reports
Upgrading of VICOMEX's
databases containing statistics
and regulations on Int. trade
and patents and trademarks;
including implementation of
Law 20 on standards and
technical regulations by
end-2003.
VICOMEX and Bank reports
Establishment of a new
information center on
regulations and standards
under the jurisdiction of
VICOMEX (including
implementation of Law 23) by
end 2004.
- 26 -



Capacity building for     Training VICOMEX staff   Consultant reports         Government commitment to
multilateral, regional, and   domestically and abroad                         support negotiations of
bilateral trade negotiations. through 2003-2004.                              regional trade integration
agreements, and avoid
Evaluation of exchange rate  'vtICOMEX's and Bank 's    pressure from interested
policy, currency valuation,   reports.              sectors to provide for
and trade impacts by June                           preferential access and for
2003.                                               protectionist measures.
Updating Panama's export    Studies prepared.       Increasing involvement of
supply of services and their                        private sector in the definition
international competitiveness                       of negotiating policies.
by June 2002.
No sector policy reversal.
Evaluation to identify national Study prepared
value-added content and                             VICOMEX commitment to
assess rules of origin of key                       project implementation.
products completed by June
2003.
Comparative study on      Study prepared
treatment of national
corporate legal status in
international trade agreements
completed by June 2003.
Identification of options on   Trade data base functioning
electronic commerce, and
trade in professional services
June 2003.
New information system and  VICOMEX performance
database with trade statistics, reports.
established by June 2003.
High level trade advisor to    Advisors hired and
VICOMEX, hired and        completing duties.
performing duties by June
2002.
New data bases and        Equipment procurement     Successful outreach and
equipment upgrades for Vice  completed and government   education campaign for
Ministry of Internal      reports.                  Indian population and data
Commerce Patent and                                 base upgrades completed.
Trademarks, by end-2003
Outreach and education
campaign for Indian
population on protection of
IPR in traditional knowledge
areas through 2004.
Implementation of legal
frameworks for IPR protection
in Law 20 by end 2003.
- 27 -



Implementation of Law No.  Completion of regulations to   Publication in Official Gazette Government and private
29 on Competition,           implement Law No. 29 by                                    sector commitment to
Consumer Protection and    end-2002.                                                    implement Law No. 29.
Unfair Trade Policies.
Mechanisms and procedures   CLICAC's internal
to settle differences between   publications and consultant's
consumers and suppliers      and Bank's reports.
implemented and operational
by end 2002.
Completion of internal       CLICAC's internal
guidelines, operational      publications and consultant's
manuals and interpretation    and Bank's reports.
documents on restrictive
business practices, consumer
protection and unfair trade by
June 2003.
Fully-functioning laboratory   Accreditation of CLICAC as
for quality standards and    ISO 9002 agency.
metrology assessments staff
fully-trained on quality
certification by end- 2003.
Sector studies assessing entry Studies prepared
barriers and constraints on
competition, efficiency and
consumer welfare prepared by
June 2003.
CLICAC and the Competition CLICAC's and Bank's reports.
Tribunal staffed with qualified
and trained personnel by
end-2003.
Fully functioning
commnunication and corporate CLICAC report
compliance programs by June
2003.
_ _ j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... .......................   . ....... ....... ................... .......................  .....
B. Fiscal sustainability and
public sector efficiency by:
Analyzing the feasibility of
the Teacher's Retirement   Actuarial Study of Teachers'  Study prepared                 Political commitment to
Plan.                        retirement pension fund                                    increase teacher's
completed in December, 2000.                               contributions.
- 28 -



Modernization of the      Base year for national    ]DEC statistics and       Government committed to
Directorate of Statistic and  accounts from 1982-1996,   publications         support the changes and share
Census.                   updated by June 2002.                               information among agencies..
Quarterly GDP data prepared ]DEC statistics and
by June 2003.             publications
Methodologies for the     Consultant's and Bank's
recollection and calculation of reports
statistical series on trade,
construction and transport;
and for the price index
implemented by June 2003.
Improvement of the        Functioning computing
computing system of the DEC system.
by September 2002.
Personnel training in the  Training programs
design, evaluation and    established.
application of new statistical
methodologies throughout
2002-2003.
Improvement of the MEF's  Full operation of a       MEF and Project            Government commitment to
capacity to analyze,      macroeconomic monitoring   Coordination Unit reports   implement reforms.
formulate and implement   system in the Ministry of
economic policies.        Economy and Finance by
end-2003.
C. Social spending and    Second survey of living   Poverty map and targeting    Government commitment to
poverty reduction.        conditions by June 2004.    criteria reports         design and conduct the survey
of living conditions
Study on public social    Study prepared
expenditures by June 2003.
Revised Poverty maps      Updated poverty map
completed by end 2004.
Poverty and vulnerability  Analyses prepared
analyses by end-2004.
Poverty monitoring system    Poverty data updated
starting by end-2002.
Strengthening the Directorate Sustainable social
of Social Policy in MEF   development
through 2002-2004.
Measurement and monitoring
of social indicators and living
standards
- 29 -



D. Improvement of the     Draft of amendment to the    DGCP and Bank reports  Government commitment
Public Procurement System. procurement law and related                        with a public procurement
regulations prepared by                             reform program.
end-2002.
Complete an assessment of   Assessment completed
the operational capacity, HR
of Government procurement
units by June 2002.
Propose specifics actions to   Operational procedures
straightening operational    improved
procedures by September
2002.
Develop and start         HR policy implemented
implementation of a HR
policy by end 2002.
Develop of guidelines,    Bidding documents prepared
standard bidding documents
of general application by end
2003.
Training program for      Training programs
procurement officials in  established
public agencies through
2002-2003.
Intemet-based public      DGCP and Bank reports
procurement information
system in place by end- 2003.
E. Project Management by  Annual project            PCU and Bank reports
the Project Coordination    implementation plans
Unit.                     prepared by March of each
year.
Effective management of the  Semi-annual PCU reports
TAL project.
- 30 -



Key Perfrnance
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators          MortWring4 & Evaluation    CrOtcaI Assutions
Project Components/       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
A. Supporting Trade       US$3.53million            Official publications     Commitment, technical and
Reform and Institutional                                                      financial capacity of
Capacity                                                                      government agencies to
implement and sustain
reforms.
A.1 Implementing WTO      US$0.87 million                                     Key decisions at critical
Agreements (SPS, TBT,                                                         stages of the project made on
Agriculture)                                                                  a timely basis.
Institutional strengthening
Training program
Provision of equipment and
databases
A.2 Building Institutional   US$1.80 million
capacity for Trade
Negotiations.
Capacity building and                                                         Coordination in government
evaluations.                                                                  agencies and private sector
involvement throughout
Training program                                                              negotiations.
The government is able to
Provision of equipment                                                        hire and retain high quality
individuals.
A.3 Supporting            US$0.86million
implementation of
Competition, Consumer
Protection and Unfair Trade
Law.
Legal framework                                                               Legislation to support reforms
improvement                                                                   should avoid pressures from
privileged groups.
Training program
Public dissemination
mechanisms
r         - _                            . r------------  ----------  .... . ........
B. Contributing to fiscal    US$1.41 million
sustainability and public
sector efficiency
- 31 -



B.1 Modernizing the         US$0.73million
Census and Statistics
Directorate
Strengthening of the Census
and Statistics Directorate
Modernization of the
computer's system.
B.2 Building institutional    US$0.68million            MEF and PCU reports
capacity of the MEF
through training and
advisory services.
Strengthening economic
policy formulation - Ministry
of Economy and Finance.
C. Improving social         US$2.70 million             Official reports.
spending and reducing
poverty
National survey
Public social spending study
Development of monitoring
systems.
D. Strengthening the Public US$1.00 million             Official and Bank reports.
Procurement System
Improving the regulatory
framework
Strengthening public
procurement institutional
capacity
Public procurement
information system.
r------------------------------ ..................... ,_ ....... ........  . ............................ ............ ...........
E. Project Management       US$1.75million              Project Coordination Unit    Provision of adequate
reports.                    counterpart funds
Including PPF (US$ 1.1
million) and front end fee
US$105,000
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Panama's geographic position and the construction of the Inter-Oceanic Canal have played a key role in the
country's history and will play an even more important role in its economic future since Panama assumed
sovereignty over the Canal on December 31, 1999. From colonial times, the istmo has facilitated
transportation of merchandise around the world, contributing to the development of trade in the Countries
of the America's and in other Continents.
The process of transferring the Canal Zone and its infrastructure intensified in 1997-99 and reverted to
Panama at the end of 1999. The reversion of the interoceanic region represented a realization of full
economic and political sovereignty. The reversion is expected to increase the rate of economic growth
permanently, as it entails a substantial transfer of land and physical capital that were not part of Panama's
territory and that its economic activity was not included in the country's GDP. The transfer also creates
opportunities for investments that can benefit from Panama's comparative advantage in services like
communications, transshipment and other associated activities that could not be developed before, given the
fact that the reverted area could not be used for commercial or industrial purposes. Panama from the
beginning of the 90's started a program for the privatization of ports, hotels, telecommunication companies
and electricity enterprises; the concessioning of routes, and increasing investments in infrastructure aimed
at transforming the economy.
During this period, international relationships were strengthened and a trade liberalization program was
implemented, establishing maximum import tariffs and eliminating non-tariff barriers. These initiatives
were targeted to support Panama's entry as a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1997.
Consequently, Panama is also intensively participating in the process of integration in the Americas, and
since March, 2001 is sede pro-tempore of FTAA Secretariat. Simultaneously, in this period the State has
reduced its interventionist position allowing more private sector participation and the reduction of economic
distortions.
A substantial progress was achieved in the area of public administration when the Govemment approved a
new job classification scheme and implemented new career streams for several occupational groups. The
actuarial study of the public sector teacher's retirement plan is an important step towards the consolidation
of the fiscal accounts. Panama's policies for the handling of public debts and public finances has been
prudent, and expenditure control has benefited from the development and gradual implementation of an
electronic and integrated system of financial administration and management.
In spite of Panama's comparatively high income per capita, poverty remains pervasive. The comprehensive
poverty assessment completed in year 2000 establishes that about 37 percent of the population live below
the poverty line and that 19 percent live in extreme poverty. Poverty is concentrated heavily in rural areas
and is most highly concentrated within the indigenous population. Consequently, poverty reduction is the
top priority of the Government, as emphasized in the Social Agenda. This agenda outlines the strategy for
reducing poverty, including increased efficiency in social spending to improve human capital and specific
targeting of resources to the poor.
The proposed project aims to consolidate and deepen the reforms needed to accelerate growth and reduce
poverty, by strengthening the Government's economic monitoring, policy formulation, public procurement
procedures and execution capacity. Thus, the technical assistance loan will support the strengthening of the
framework for private sector development, trade integration and poverty alleviation. Proposed project
- 33 -



components would: (i) build institutional capacity for negotiations of WTO and regional trade agreements,
as well as support the implementation of the law on competition, consumer protection and unfair trade
policies; (ii) contribute to fiscal sustainability and public sector efficiency by improving the quality of
statistical data and strengthening the Ministry of Economy and Finance ability to analyze, design and
implement development strategies; (iii) improve poverty information and targeting of social spending; and,
(iv) strengthen the public procurement legal framework and the institutional capacity for handling public
procurement.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$5.40 million
A. Supporting Trade Reform and Institutional Capacity
A.1 Implementing WTO commitments
The government's trade strategy recognizes that enhanced integration into the rules based system of the
WTO is central to Panama's ability to leverage the benefits that open trade offers; that a strengthened
institutional capacity will support Panama to exercise WTO rights and obligations; and that the links and
coherence between multilateral objectives, regional trade initiatives, and domestic reform is also of
paramount importance. In addition, coordination, information exchange, and institutional linkages between
ministries and the private sector to enhance competitiveness is critical to long-term poverty alleviation
programs. Notwithstanding these facts, there continues to be institutional weakness and lack of rapid
progress in WTO implementation, especially in the areas of technical barriers to trade, standards, and
agriculture. This is due to the fact that Panama has been a member of the WTO a limited period of time,
since 1997. The legal instruments for conformity to WTO obligations, in the areas of TBT, SPS,
Agriculture, and intellectual property rights, in particular, have been in place for 3-4 years. Ministry staff
lack training in duties associated with domestic legal requirements related to WTO obligations. In addition,
information systems and communications technology, databases on trade, and related infrastructure is
outdated and inadequate.
In addition, Panama has enacted Law 20 on Intellectual Property Rights on June 26, 2000. The project
will support implementation of this law, especially as it relates to the protection of traditional knowledge of
Indian populations. The project will support modemization of databases in the Vice Ministry of Internal
Commerce and consequently strengthen domestic protection of IPR and trade obligations in this areas, as
well as the establishment of a new information center on standards in DGNTI in order to strengthen
information dissemination on standards to meet quality, export enhancement, and related WTO obligations.
The project will focus on strengthening the government's ability in the following areas related to
multilateral trade and export enhancement goals: (i) implementation of WTO commitments in key areas of
technical regulations (Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement), and sanitary and phytosanitary standards
(SPS Agreement), and the Agreement on Agriculture; (ii) participation by MICI-VICOMEX in
negotiations at the WTO on market access issues in preparation for the next multilateral trade negotiating
round; (iii) ability of Panama to support a well functioning WTO enquiry point and notifications on
sanitary and phytosanitary standards and technical regulations, methodologies for notifications required by
the WTO under the Agriculture Agreement; (iv) policy consistency and integration of domestic policy
reform programs with multilateral and regional trade initiatives; (v) modernization of databases on patents
and trademarks; and (vi) establishment of a new information center on standards under the jurisdiction of
VICOMEX. This work will be coordinated with VICOMEX, CLICAC, with the advice of private sector
groups.
- 34 -



A.2 Building institutional capacity for trade negotiations
After adhering to the WTO in 1997, Panama initiated a series of round negotiations to establish free trade
agreements with Chile, Mexico and most recently, with Central America. At the same time, Panama is
actively involved in the negotiation of the FTAA. Starting on March 2001, Panama will be hosting such
negotiations for two years. This strategy is viewed by the authorities as a natural extension of the unilateral
and multilateral liberalization efforts to achieve higher outward-oriented growth, and increases in
employment and income. For this purpose, the government has decided to strengthen VICOMEX as its
key international negotiation management institution.
This part of the trade component will strengthen the trade negotiating capacity of the Viceministry of
International Trade in order to conclude market opening trade agreements; develop capacity to prepare,
with the private sector participation, international competitiveness diagnostic and negotiating strategies;
and build management capacity in specialized and new trade policy areas so as to increase trade-negotiating
responsiveness. The project will support Panama's trade opening measures principally through: (i)
procurement of information technology equipment, software and hardware, and technical advice and
training to establish a database on trade statistics; (ii) technical assistance to assess export
opportunities/challenges, industry advantages in terms of scale, value-added and specialization, trade
creation/diversion, and other evaluations; (iii) capacity building in MICI-VICOMEX for identifying,
assessing, achieving internal consensus, negotiating and implementing and harmonizing trade agreements
(training and simulation workshops for negotiators, identification of linkages between different negotiating
policy areas, and coordination mechanisms among different government agencies responsible for trade
policy matters as well as with private sector constituencies); and (iv) cross-cutting and multi-sector studies
and diagnostics.
A.3 Implementing the Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy Law
The process of economic reform initiated during the last decade gives a preponderant role to competition as
an element aimed at achieving economic efficiency, consumer welfare and market transparency. To
introduce competition in the domestic market, two mechanisms were used: first, international trade and
second, a modern legislation was passed in the area of competition, consumer protection and unfair trade
(Law No. 29 of 1996) to secure a favorable climate for free competition.
This sub-component would support CLICAC's efforts to strengthen and consolidate the implementation of
Law No. 29. This task will focus on three goals: (i) improve the regulatory, analytical and enforcement
capabilities of CLICAC through sector-specific studies/assessments, methodological guidelines, and
internal operational manuals to address consumer complaints/disputes, requests for ISO certification and
trade remedy measures; (ii) procurement of laboratory equipment and staff training to support CLICAC's
work on technical standards and legal metrology; (iii) develop a comprehensive training program for
CLICAC's and the Competition Tribunal's staff on best enforcement/compliance practices regarding Law
No. 29; and (iv) develop programs aimed at public dissemination, voluntary corporate compliance and
enhancing CLICAC's advocacy capacity to deal with interface issues between competition and other
related-public policy areas. This component, particularly in the areas of trade remedy policy and standards
and legal metrology, will be closely coordinated with the MICI, as well as the WTO enquiry point on
technical regulations and with the General Directorate of Rules and Industrial Technology (DGNTI).
- 35 -



In the area of trade and competition policy, the government's strategy seeks to integrate as cohesively as
possible reforms of tariffs/non-tariff barriers and domestic deregulation; the implementation of WTO
commitments; the negotiation of free trade areas with Western Hemisphere country partners; and the
implementation of the regulatory and institutional safeguards to the competitive process contained in Law
No. 29. On the implementation of WTO and Regional Free Trade Agreements , the project will build on
the preparatory work done with the support of the PPF, leading to formal enactment of the appropriate
legislation and regulations and the strengthening of the capabilities in the areas related to multilateral trade.
The Competition, Consumer Protection and Unfair Trade Policy component has sought to take into account
the views, concerns and needs of all stakeholders. It is expected that experience obtained during project
preparation supported under Project Preparation Facility, has set the stage for sub-component
implementation under this project. Every effort has been made to provide reliable and realistic indicators of
progress for this component, but they will only be effective if strong monitoring and feedback mechanisms
are in place.
Project Component 2 - US$1.50 million
B. Contributing to Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector Efficiency
B.1 Improving the quality and timeliness of macroeconomic data
The Government Auditing Office (CGR) has the constitutional mandate to provide and maintain national
statistics. To that end, the Census and Statistic Directorate (DEC) was created within CGR. During the
last three decades, the Minister of Economy and Finance (MEF) has closely collaborated with DEC in the
process of improving the social and economic statistic data base, through specialization of staff,
participation in workshops where discussions on specific related issues took place, and the technical
assistance of international organizations such as IDB and the IMF.
In response to the private sector request and the Panamanian government need to provide adequate statistic
information, the project will support the modernization of DEC through technical assistance to: (i) improve
the methodology of calculation of economic activities, such as to incorporate transport, trade, construction,
and those activities of the reverted areas; (ii) change of the base year of the national accounts and the price
index; (iii) produce quarterly GDP data; (iv) introduce new methodology for the calculation of the price
index; and (v) modernize the DEC computer system aimed at speeding up the process to improve quality
information and reduce delays.
B.2 Strengthening economic management
This component will provide for capacity building at the Minister's Office at the MEF and advisory
services on policies, sectors and issues aimed at strengthening the Ministry's ability to analyze, formulate,
implement and monitor macroeconomic policies. The project will also support the drafting of legislation
and implementation of economic proposals; follow-up of foreign obligations to international financial
institutions; the management of the debt reduction scheme, the implementation of the Economic Recovery
Plan aimed at increasing jobs, that was prepared by the Government with the participation of the private
sector and approved by the national Assembly on June 2001; and the implementation and monitoring of the
Public Expenditure Rationalization Plan approved in May 2001, aimned at balancing the budget.
Additionally, the actuarial study financed under the PPF will help to rationalize the teachers retirement plan
in Panama, introducing a more transparent, reliable and non deficitary program.
- 36-



Project Component 3 - US$ 3.01 million
C. Improving Social Spending and Reducing Poverty
Despite Panama's relatively high and increasing social spending, low performance on social indicators
persists for many segments of the population. Public spending on the social sectors currently absorbs
about 20 percent of GDP, putting Panama among the top social spenders in the region. Nonetheless, a high
share of children (16 percent), most of whom are poor, suffer from malnutrition in Panama. Substantial
educational gaps also persist, particularly for the poor and indigenous populations. Facing this situation,
the Panamanian Government has made poverty reduction as its top priority. One of the early actions of the
present administration was the development of a Social Development Strategy and Policy: 2000-2004
alongside the Government's Economic and Financial Strategies. With poverty reduction constituting the
overarching objective of this strategy, key areas for action include improving the equity, targeting and
efficiency of public social spending and interventions and improving access by the poor to basic social
services.
In support of these efforts, the proposed project seeks to provide technical assistance to help the
Government develop monitoring, evaluation, and targeting tools for poverty and poverty-reduction
interventions. In this context, the proposed component would provide technical assistance in four key
areas, including: (i) preparing a second survey of living conditions
(Encuesta de Niveles de Vida, ENV-2003); (ii) carrying out a comprehensive, specialized study of public
social spending; (iii) conducting thorough poverty and vulnerability analyses using data generated by the
ENV-2003; and (iv) developing a poverty monitoring system and strengthening the Social Policy
Directorate at the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Project Component 4 - US$1.10 million
D. Strengthening the Public Procurement System
The recent Country Procurement Assessment confirmed that public procurement in Panama is affected by
inefficiencies and lack of transparency. The procurement process is lengthy and cumbersome, therefore,
costly. The main factors causing those problems are: (i) an incomplete legal framework, overlapping
regulations and conflicting interpretations; (ii) cumbersome procedures and lack of uniformity application
of the law among sectors and agencies; lack of standard documents; (iii) weak institutional mechanisms to
develop and ensure implementation of policy and regulation; (iv) weak implementation capacity at the
agency level due to limited procurement staff capacity due to the lack of a procurement career stream,
insufficient training and high staff turn over; and (v) absence of a comprehensive national information
system on procurement. According to the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), there is
overall consensus among government officials and the private sector that the public procurement system of
Panama needs to be overhauled in order to make of it a more transparent, efficient and cost effective
management tool. Therefore, the following three sub-components would aim at:
D.1 Improving public procurement legal frameworlk This sub-component will support an overall
review of existing procurement and related regulation, and the drafting and processing of an amendment to
Law 56 and comprehensive regulatory decree, using a participatory mechanism (workshops) to involve
stakeholders and consulting services. The amendment to the law would aim at strengthening the lead
policy, regulatory and institution building role of the DGCP, closing existing loopholes, removing
inconsistencies and adding items that have been left out.
D.2 Building institutional capacity for handling procurement. The Govemnment believes that it is
necessary to improve and strengthen the capacity for handling public procurement. To that end, this
- 37 -



sub-component will support the strengthening of the public procurernent office (DGCP) and the agency
procurement units, providing them with the resources to carry out its duties and include the technical
assistance, short and long international and local consultants, for the review and adjustment of procedures,
development of guidelines, standard documentation and bidding documents of general application
nationwide; and develop a human resources policy that recognizes the importance of the procurement
function. To that end, a survey of the organization of human and other resources available will be carried in
order to establish job profiles, staff requirements and qualifications, provide training programs for
procurement officials.
D.3 Developing an electronic public procurement system. This sub-component will support the
development and establishment of a Public Procurement Information System, and setting the basis for an
Electronic Government Procurement (EGP). This component will finance technical assistance for the
development if the system, and computer hardware and software for implementing a pilot or first phase of
the information system.
Project Component 5 - US$2.39 million
E. Project Management
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Economy and Finance, will be the principal unit
overseeing the design and implementation of the project. The PCU would be headed by a National Director
and staffed by national and international consultants as needed with relevant experiences in the field. The
Director will act as the project director, working closely with the Minister of Economy and Finance, on a
daily basis. The PCU will be responsible for the coordination with implementing institutions and agencies
(MEF, MICI, CLICAC and CGR). The PCU will be responsible for the administration of project funds,
monitoring and reporting, and contracting procedures. The implementing executing agencies will be
responsible for defining and developing the work programs, financial management, substantive oversight of
consultants, management of training activities, and overall project integration.
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Local        Foreign         Total
fProlet Cost By Coponent                     US $million    US $millon    US $rmiw
A. Supporting Trade Reform and Institutional Capacity           3.81           1.35          5.16
B.Contributing to Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector       1.00          0.37           1.37
Efficiency
C. Improving Social Spending and Reducing Poverty               1.91          0.85           2.76
D. Strengthening the Public Procurement System                  0.52           0.42          0.94
E. Project Management                                           1.57           0.60          2.17
Total Baseline Cost                                             8.81          3.59          12.40
Physical Contingencies                                         0.49          0.40           0.89
Price Contingencies                                            0.01          0.10           0.11
Total Project Costs                 9.31           4.09          13.40
Interest during construction                     0.00          0.00
Front-end fee              _        0.11           0.11
Total Financing Required                  9.31           4.20          13.51
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 13.51 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 77.72% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 39-



Annex 4
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Similar to other technical assistance loans, the benefits expected from the proposed Public Policy Reform
TAL are intangible in nature and therefore difficult to quantify for a cost-benefit assessment, including an
accurate estimate of rates of return. However, these benefits are real and the project is expected to have
considerable benefits by accelerating and implementing specific public policies in the areas of international
trade, competition and consumer protection, fiscal sustainability, poverty and procurement.
The projects components are expected to:
*     Support Trade Reform and Institutional Capacity. This component will support: (i) Panama's
process of integration into the global trading system; (ii) implementation of current WTO commitments in
intellectual property rights, standards, and regulation; (iii) the provision of training and assistance to
government departments engaged in WTO negotiations; and (iv) strengthening of trade institutional
capacity through improved standards and databases on patents and trademarks. All of these would bring
coherence in the government strategy for trade integration and economic gains by increasing open trade and
investment opportunities, lower prices and better quality products. As a result of strengthening the
Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission (CLICAC), the project would reduce uncertainties in the
application of the Competition, Consumer and Unfair Trade Law.
*     Contribute to Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector Efficiency. Given Panama's monetary
arrangements, the budget is the key instrument of macroeconomic policy and the basic objective of the
authorities' program remain fiscal consolidation. This component will support reforms that address
structural weaknesses in the public sector such as lack of quality and timeliness of macroeconomic data,
lack of ability to analyze, design and implement macroeconomic policies.
a     Improve Social Spending and Poverty Reduction. By providing tools for monitoring and
evaluating poverty, developing criteria to improve the targeting of social spending and poverty reduction
programs, institutionalizing the appropriate mechanisms to measure Panana's living standards through the
financing of a Second survey for year 2002 and strengthening the institutional capacity of the Census and
Statistic Directorate responsible for preparing, recompiling and publishing national statistics, the proposed
project would reduce inefficiencies and inequities in public social spending allowing the delivery of focused
social programs to the poor.
*     Strengthen Public Procurement. The new procurement information system will lead to a more
efficient, effective and transparent public sector, with positive effects upon ethical behavior and
commitment to public service. The development of a public procurement information system will make the
procurement process more transparent. This will set the basis for EGP which will make the procurement
process more manageable and less costly.
- 40 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Years Ending
| Year I I Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          2.9        3.5       2.0        2.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.4       1.0        1.0       0.6       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         3.3        4.5       3.0        2.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Interest during   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
construction
Front-end fee    0.1       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Financing             3.4        4.5       3.0        2.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  3.0       3.5        2.0       2.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.4       1.0        1.0       0.6        0.0      0.0        0.0
Central               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers                                                       0.0      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    3.4        4.5        3.0       2.6       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-41 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
All procurement of goods and works under the Project would be carried out in accordance with the
"Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Consultants would be employed in
accordance with the Guidelines, Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January and September 1999), and the
provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Summary of Procurement and Financial Management Assessment
While several executing agencies will have various degrees of involvement in project implementation, a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), reporting to the Planning Directorate with the Ministry of Economy and
Finance, will be responsible for carrying out and closely supervising all procurement under the project,
ensuring quality control at each stage of the processes. Although UNDP will be hired at the Borrower's
own cost to administer the project funds and pay suppliers/contractors directly, the PCU will have primary
responsibilities for carrying out procurement.
Procurement and Financial Management assessments of the PCU were carried out by Bank Specialists in
April 2001. The procurement assessment revealed that the PCU has capable staff in hand to carry out
Bank-financed procurement. However, the PCU has not yet assigned responsibilities to specific staff
towards the project. The financial management assessment concluded that the PCU, except for the areas
indicated in the action plan agreed with the project coordinator and presented in the following paragraph,
maintains appropriate financial management arrangements to ensure the availability of timely and pertinent
project progress information and financial information during project implementation.
The action plan agreed with the Borrower to strengthen its procurement and financial management capacity
by loan effectiveness, include:
*   Defining an inter-institutional arrangements that will describe the respective roles and
responsibilities of the PCU and other executing entities.
*   Identifying the staffing needs to attend to the incremental procurement and financial
management functions resulting from the implementation of the project.
*   Adopting a project operational manual with a detailed description of procurement and financial
management responsibilities and processes, including procedures at the implementing entity
level. The Manual will contain a description of the internal controls established (who is
responsible for revising, approving, auditing, etc.) to ensure appropriate accountability and
foster effectiveness and efficiency in project implementation.
* Initiating the process to engage project auditors.
-42-



The action plan agreed, also include:
* Preparing standard bidding documents for National Competitive Bidding and for Shopping
acceptable to the Bank.
* Organizing reliable and secure files and a control and checking systems for the files.
Article 14 of Panama's Public Procurement Law states the primacy of the procurement rules of the
international funding agencies. The loan agreement includes special provisions regarding procurement
under local regulations.
Procurement methods
Goods
The Project would finance contracts for the purchase of computer and software, metrology equipment, and
survey equipment estimated to cost a total amount of approximately US$1.54. Contracts for goods
estimated to exceed US$ 250,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of ICB procedures. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$ 250,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.86 equivalent, may be
procured on the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. The latter would include software,
personal computers, GPS equipment. Prior review of the first three NCB contract shall serve as the basis
for agreement on a standard model to be used in subsequent contracts. Contracts for goods estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 equivalent for miscellaneous equipment that include replacement of vehicles,
computers, geodesic equipment and publications, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.68 equivalent, may
be procured following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Consultant Services
The Project would finance technical assistance, studies and capacity building to develop a modem, reliable,
financially and technically sustainable public sector able to advise and facilitate trade and competition.
Consulting services would be required, among others, to strengthen existing institutions, revising the legal
framework, re-defining administrative procedures and improving information system. In addition, the
project would finance technical assistance for project implementation including the PCU's staff and a
qualified firm or international consultants which would assist in achieving project's objectives. The Project
will not finance incremental salaries.
Consulting firms would be selected following a Quality and Cost Based Selection process, in accordance
with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines and Least-Cost Selection (auditing) in accordance with Section
III of the Consultant Guidelines.
Individual consultants include technical and assistant staff for short and long-term assignments across the
PCU and the executing agencies up to an aggregate amount of US$5.0 million.
- 43 --



Operatinm Costs
The project will not finance Operating Costs.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method' 
Ienditure Catgory   :ICB                           NCB            ther2                   Total Cost
1. Works                              0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00        0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00             0.86           0.68           0.00         1.54
(0.00)           (0.77)         (0.62)        (0.00)       (1.39)
3. Services                           0.00             0.00           6.55           0.00        6.55
(0.00)          (0.00)         (6.55)        (0.00)       (6.55)
4. Training                           0.00             0.00            1.35          0.00         1.35
(0.00)           (0.00)         (1.35)        (0.00)       (1.35)
5. Interest during                    0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00        0.00
construction
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Front-end Fee                      0.00             0.00           0.00           0.11        0.11
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.1 1)      (0.1 1)
Recurrent Costs                       0.00             0.00           0.00          2.86         2.86
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
PPF                                   0.00             0.00            1.10          0.00         1.10
(0.00)           (0.00)         (.10)         (0.00)       (1.10)
Total                              0.00             0.86           9.68           2.97        13.51
(0.00)           (0.77)         (9.62)        (0.11)      (10.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
ICB: Intemational Competitive Bidding
NCB: National Competitive Bidding
-44 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
ConsuItaw* sr.   .                               .
Expenditure c!atsgory   QCBS  BS;  SF8 L3      S      CQ                    Toute  st
A. Firms              1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     1.55
(1.55)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.55)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00    0.00     5.00
.___ _    (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (5.00)  (0.00)   (5.00)
Total  1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00    0.00     6.55
(1.55)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (5.00)  (0.00)   (6.55)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-45-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All the ICB procurement of goods will be subject to the Bank's prior review. The first three contracts
awarded following NCB procedures, and the first three procured through shopping would be subject to
prior review. In addition, prior review procedures would apply to all contracts awarded following QCBS
procedures estimated to cost more than US$ 100,000 equivalent, and all contracts with individual
consultants estimated to cost more than US$ 50,000 For other consulting contracts, only the TOR would
be reviewed by the Bank. The prior review percentage is 56%.
Any contract awarded on a single-source basis, assignments of a critical nature, and amendments raising
contract values above the said thresholds would be subject to prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review1
*__re Cwv at0l  US$-<; thuan                      Meho                  US ilin
1. Works
2. Goods                        >250                    ICB                      All
<250                    NCB                 First 3 contracts
<50                   Shopping             First 3 contracts
3. Services
Firms                         >100                    QCBS                      All
<100                   QCBS                  Only TORs
Individuals                    >50             Chapter V of Consultant          All
Guidelines
<50            Chapter V of Consultant       Only TORs
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
F;requency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-46 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in UL iFincin P4ke"*10
Goods                                       1.39          100% of foreign expenditure and 90% of
local expenditures
Consultants' Services                       6.15                         100%
Training                                    1.35                         100%
Recurrent Costs                             0.00                          0%
PPF                                         1.10                         100%
Audit Fees                                  0.40                         100%
Total Project Costs                         10.39
Interest during construction        0.00
Front-end Fee          0.11                          0%
Total                                       10.50
Mechanisms
The Bank and the Ministry of Economy and Finance have agreed that the traditional disbursement
mechanism will be used for at least six months after project effectiveness. Transition to a full PMR system
would be subject to the satisfactory results of new financial management and procurement assessments.
All consolidated documentation will be maintained by the PCU for post-review and audit purposes.
Use of Project Management Report (PMRs)
The results of the financial management assessment indicates that the PCU will implement an Integrated
Project Monitoring System, with accounting and financial information, disbursements, procurement, to
allow the generation of quarterly PMRs.
The PMRs will serve as disbursement requests. Transition to PMRs will be subject to the satisfactory
results of new financial management and procurement assessments. Once the PCU becomes PMR
compliant, disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set in the Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI) Implementation Handbook. Each application for withdrawal should separately identify
the funds requested from the loan account, and would be supported by a PMR or such other documents and
evidence as the Bank may request. PMRs should be submitted within 45 days from the preceding quarter.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal, the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower, shall withdraw from
the credit account and deposit into the UNDP Account an amount equal to the lesser: (i) the amount
requested; and (ii) the amount the Bank has determined, based on the PMR accompanying the application,
is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six month period following
the date of the report, but in no case should exceed 20% of the total loan funds, without prior authorization
from the Loan Department.
- 47 -



Flow of Funds
Given the complexity of the local public expenditure procedures and regulations, the Government has
expressed its interest in using complementary services by a facilitating agency, UTNDP. In this case, the
PCU would also play a bridging role between such agency and the executing agencies. At the Borrower's
request the Bank will disburse to UNDP the advances agreed upon. UN[)P will furnish the PCU with
reports on expenditures, so that the PCU submits to the Bank the applications for disbursements with the
corresponding reports of expenditures.
Auditing Arrangements
An external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, will be contracted by the PCU to carry out an annual
financial audit of the project, as required by OP/BP 10.02 by loan effectiveness. The auditor will be
selected in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers". The auditors should be hired at project inception, and prior of the
commencement of each project fiscal year thereafter, so that the interim SOEs and PMRs (if applicable)
will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation. Audited project financial
statements will be submitted to the Bank within 180 days of the close of the project's financial year. The
"Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin
America and the Caribbean Region" should be followed when preparing the terms of reference for the audit
and these guidelines should be provided to the selected auditors.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing would be provided for up to a maximum of US$ 1.00 million for eligible
expenditures incurred between July 30, 2001 and the loan signing date.
- 48 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Atuatl
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)                                         03/11/99
Appraisal mission departure                     05/23/2001                  05/28/2001
Negotiations                                    05/31/2001                  06/28/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/02/2001           _
Prepared by:
Ana Lucia Armijos
Preparation assistance:
Sandra X. Alborta
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Ana Lucia Armijos (LCSPE)         Team Leader Senior Economist
Roberto 0. Panzardi (LCSPS)       Senior Public Sector Management Specialist
John S. Wilson (DECRG)            Lead Economist/Trade Specialist
Luis Tineo (PSAPP)                Private Sector Development Specialist
Gisela Durand (LCSPS)             Consultant/Cost Specialist
Kathy Lindert (LCSHD)             Senior Economist/Poverty Reduction Specialist
Jaime Roman (LCOPR)               Lead Procurement Specialist
Livio Pino (LCOAA)                Senior Financial Management Specialist
Irani Escolano (LCSES)            Procurement Specialist
Juan Carlos Alvarez (LEGLA)       Counsel
Sandra Alborta (LCSPS)            Task Team Assistant
Peer Reviewers
Mauricio Carrizosa (LCSPE)        Sector Manager
Geoffrey Shepherd (LCSPS)         Lead Specialist
-49-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Operation Manual
Draft Project Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Competition Assessment and draft regulation of monopolistic practices (1999), prepared by Luis Tineo
(1999).
Poverty Reduction Strategy and Action Plan (Nuevo Enfoque Estrategico Frente a la Pobreza) signed as
Cabinet Resolution No. 134 (1998).
Organizational and Institutional Analysis of the Civil Service Directorate, prepared by Peter Gregory
(2000)
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) , prepared by Jaime A. Roman (March 2001)
Financial Management Assessment (FMA), prepared by Livio Pino (June 2001)
Initiating Memorandum for a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), prepared by Livio
Pino
C. Other
WTO - Protocol of Adhesion - Law No.23 (1997)
Public Procurement Law No. 56 (1995) and it regulatory Decree No. 18.
Pension Fund for Public Employees (SIACAP) (1997)
Seminar on Competition practices (CLICAC).
Poverty Map. Technical Report and Methodology. (July 1999)
Profile and Characteristics of the Poor in Panama (March 1999)
Income Distribution of Panama. Ministry of Economy and Finance (March 2000).
Economic Recovery Plan (Plan Dinamico 2001). Ministry of Economy and Finance (May 2001)
Public Expenditure Rationalization Plan (Plan de Racionalizacion del Gasto Publico) Ministry of
Economy and Finance (May 2001).
*lncluding electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount in USS Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Revd
P052021        2001 PA- BASIC EDUCATION II                              35.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      35.00       2.33       0.00
P050595        2001 LAND ADMINISTRATION                                 47.90       0.00                  0.00       0.00      47.90       0.00       0.00
P040179        1999 PA- HEALTH PILOT                                     4.30       0.00                  0.00       0.00       3.74       3.74       0.00
P045937        1998 PAMBC                                                0.00       0.00                  8.40       0.00       5.92       5.69       0.00
P051124        1998 UTILITIES RESTRUC TA                                12.70       0.00                  0.00       0.00       6.16       5.82       0.00
P007847        1997 RURAL POV & NAT RES                                 22.50       0.00                  0.00       0.00       9.42       6.82      -1.50
P007837        1997 PA - FES                                            28.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      17.93      15.94       0.00
P007832        1996 PA- EDUCATION SECTOR                                35.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       3.46       0.14       0.00
P007846        1995 PA- RURAL HEALTH                                    25.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      10.16      10.28       0.00
P007844        1994 ROADS REHABILITATION                                60.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      11.42      11.42       0.00
Total:      270.40        0.00                8A0          0.00      151.09      62.17      -1.50
- 51 -



PANAMA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commiited                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999/00            BANISTMO                       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/00            Banco General S.              25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Continental-PAN                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               ICA Panama                    20.00    0.00   15.00   35.00   20.00    0.00    15.00   35.00
1995/00            Manzanillo                    14.64    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.64    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               PCRC                          15.00    5.00    0.00   30.00   10.92    5.00    0.00   21.83
1999               Suintemacional                 0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        74.64    10.00   15.00   65.00    70.56    7.50    15.00   56.83
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              Suinternacional                  20.00      0.00      0.00     40.00
2000              AES Panama                       45.00      0.00      0.00    170.00
Total Pending Commitment:       65.00      0.00      0.00    210.00
- 52 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PANAMA: Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-               ____
Panama   & Carlb.   Incomo        Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         2.9       518        847                  Life expectancy
GNP Per capita lAtlas method, US$)                    3.260      3,680     4,620
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        9.3      1,895     2,986                       T
Averase annual growth, 1994-00                                                                          T
Population M%)                                          1.7        1.6       1.3
Labor force (%)                                         2,5        2.3       2,0      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1994-00)                                 capita                       enrollment
Povertv (% otpopulation below national poverty line)     37
Urban oopulation (% of total population)                 56        75         75
Life expectanev at birth (years)                         74        70         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 20        30         27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                *         9                      Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     87        a5         87
Illiteracv (% of population ase 15+)                      8        12         10
Gross Drimarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoevooulation)     106       113        109        -Panama
Male                                                   .-         .- .                      Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999       2000      9
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                             3.8      5.3        9.6       9.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 28.1     16.8       32.5      30.2                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             50.7     38,4       33.1      33.1
Gross domestc savinls/GDP                     30.5     21.4       24.2      24.4
Gross national savinas/GDP                    20.6     20.1       18.1      20.9
Current account balance/GOP                      ..     3.8      -14A4      .9.4      Domestic                    Investment
Interest paymentstGDP                          6.4      1.7        4.0       3.1     savinv
Total debt/GDP                                74.9    100.9       58.9      57.2      savings
Total debt service/exports                      *-    10.8        17.8      14.1
Present value of debtVGDP                       ..       ..       71.7        ..
Present value of deWexports                     ..       ..    144.5           -
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  0.5       4.1      3.0        2.7       3.5         -     Panama
GNP Der capita                      -0.8       2.2     -1.2        3.9       1.9               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of aoods and services       .0.9       0.5      6.7        5.8       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999       2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            20
Airiculture                                    8.7      9.5        6.8       6.7
Industrv                                      19.0     14.6       16.9      16.9      10      
Manufacturing                               10.7   9.5    7.7   7.6                   _
Services                                      72.3     75.9       76.3      76.3      a      57 3     3      3 3
Private con-,umDtion                          51.9     60.4       60.3      60.7    -10 
General aovernment consumption                17.6     18.1       15.6      14.8                  GDI             GDP
Imports of ooods and services                 48.3     33.8       41.5      38.8
1980.90  1990-00      1999       2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                    2.5      2.0       -0.4       0.3    20
Industry                                      -1.3      5.4        4.8       0.5    10
Manufacturinq                                0.4      2.8       -5.8      -4.1
Services                                       0.7      4.0        2.8       3.4      0
Private consumption                            2.1      3.8       -1.9       4.4    -Is
General government consumption                 1.2      2.1       -2.0      -2.1
Gross domestic investment                     -8.9     11.2       12.6      -4.5   -20
ImDorts of aoods and services                 -2.4      4.5        5.2      -0.8                Expors    -       Imports
Gross national product                         1.3      4.0        0.5       5.6
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-orouD averaqe. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 53 -



Panama
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domnestc pdcas                             1980    1990       1999     2000     Inflation (Y)
(% change)                                                                      4
Consumer pices                             13.8    -5.1        1.4      1A      3 -
Implicit GDP deflator                      33.7      0.6      -0.7      1.0     2 -
Government finance                            .                                                                 u
(% of GDP, includes curnent grants)                                             o
Current revenue                              ..    18.1       20.3     21.3   .1 -           96   97   98   9w
Current budget balance                       ..    -5.0        1.2      1.6               GDP deflator        CPI
Overall surplusideficit                      ..    -5.5       -2.4     -1.3
TRADE
1980    1990      1999      2000     Export and Import levels (USS nIll.)
(US$ nu71bns)
Total exports (fob)                                 949      1,442    1,512
Bananas                                     ..    213        182      148
Sugar                                               44        69       59    3.00D
Manufactures                                ..    638       1,006    1,061
Total imports (cf)                           ..   1,495      3,516    3,379    2,00D*
Food                                               156       343      348     10CD
Fuel and energy                                    185       302      447
Capital goods                                      200       839      688        o
94  95  96  97  go  99   0
Export price index (1995=100)                60      70        101       99
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                   63      71         93       91                aExports      mImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    95      98        109      109
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ ,niillons)                            1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                ..   2,042      3,161    3,278      s-
Imports of goods and services                 ..   1,796     3,963    3,850
Resource batance                             ..    245        -801     -572      0
94
Net income                                    ..   -262       -741     -521      s
Netcurrenttransfers                          ..    219         164      166
Current account balance                       .     202    -1,378      -927
Financing items (net)                        ..    251       1,319      870    -15
Changes in net reserves                      *-   -453          59       57     20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ m7ilions)       ..    344        825       891
Conversion rate (DEC, locatUS$)             10       1.0       1.0       1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999      2000
(US$ mlfions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,855    5,361     5,633    5,664
IBRD                                      133     462       288       284                        A: 284
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Total debt service                          456     345        842      692                            _      829
IBRD                                       18      68        40        46
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
E: 380
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             6      126         3        2
Official creditors                         78     -39          4       -9
Private creditors                         123      -5        662      266
Foreign direct investment                 -47      132       517      393           F: 4,171
Portblio equity                             0       0          0        0
Wodd Bank program
Commitments                                35       0          0       35     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              20       0         31       17     B - IDA    D- Othermultilateral  F -Private
Principal repayments                        6      41        21        24     C -1IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  14     -41         10       -7
Interest payrnents                         12      27         19       22
Net transfers                               2      -68        -9      -29
Development Economics                                                                                            6120/01
- 54 -



IRRD 28335R
83                                         82                                           8                                            0                                          79                                           7e8                                          T7 -
Nombro do                                            A     I B      A
COSTA                       AO
RICA
83'              e2                                          @1'   ,    0 0           z                   gHt                                         79                                           7S'         \.                               77 0 '-~~~~M"t d 10 
UNcL-    STATESuo de                             o                  8
PS.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
P A N  AMAoTWSADVLAER                                                                                                       L Lufo d )  
P-F.   ARPORTS/LANDNGSTRIPS,<1 UE  STATS   O  AMEIA
PA Nhis      AMA GdoP ofs                                                                                                                                                                                           TNR8AHAMAS          ON 'he Nare of The 14orW dn  Goup    _   >5,000 4A uM-P -n aR c
occeprsnce of such boundurfe:                                                                                                                                                     O C E A N                    4   COLO MBIA, {             i 
TRANSPORTATION  AND    RE  LIE  F                    Li    PEOVINCE CAPITALS                                 PAVED EGADS                                   K         ,                           DOMINICAN~~~~~~NITE STAES O  AMEICA
1* NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 GRAVEL AND DIET ROADS                        MXC           <RZ           ALC
20         L      1       80      100I LOETERS                                          S      PORTS OR LANADING PLACES                         ELEVATIONS IN FEET-
t AIRPORTS/LAND NO STRIPS                            <1,500                                      OUATEM'ALA/-  -'  I
1,000-3,000                      ~~~~EL SALYADOZ ?NlCA8ZAGUA
RIVERS                                             ,05,D                                ~                                        - 
lb,         d-d 6,p'O   OJI  M,,. D-,. y L, <(Thu W-id 8-k                                                                                              ,5U,D                                                 COSTA  Ie<<r<              ~        RD 
00< <,d<, uIu,u <Iu,I,,ho<s<110<17<111< <[<111<1<11(11<1       ---- INTERNATONAL BOUNDARIES                       -         <DUOS                                                            >J>kI              y     EEUL
OCEAN                          CLMI
JULY 2001



