Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7446-PAN 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance
 
Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
CONTRALORÍA GENERAL DE LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ 
 
Dated March 10, 2008
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated March 10, 2008, entered into between INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (
“Bank”) and 
CONTRALORÍA GENERAL DE LA REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ (“CGR”) (“Project 
Agreement”) in connection with the Loan Agreement (“Loan Agreement”) of same date 
between REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ (“Borrower”) and the Bank.  The Bank and the 
CGR hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions for the Project Agreement (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan Agreement or the 
General Conditions for the Project Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II — PROJECT
 
2.01. 
The CGR declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the 
CGR shall carry out Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions for the Project Agreement, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Parts A.2 and Part A.3 and D.2 of the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Bank and CGR shall otherwise agree, CGR shall carry out Parts 
A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project in accordance with the General Conditions for the 
Project Agreement and the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
CGR Representative is its Director of Foreign Affairs. 
 
3.02. CGR
’s Address is: 
 
Ave. Balboa y Federico Boyd 
 
Apartado Postal 0816-01521 
 
Ciudad de Panamá   
 Phone: 
507-510-4346 
 
Fax: 507- 510-4399     
 
Page  3
2
3.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
 
 
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Laura Frigenti 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
CONTRALORÍA GENERAL DE LA  
 
REPUBLICA DE PANAMÁ 
 
By /s/ Carlos A. Vallarino 
 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  4
3
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Execution of Parts A.2; Part A.3 and D.2
 
of
 
the Project 
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, establish and thereafter maintain 
in CGR throughout the implementation of the Project a Project executing unit 
(PEU) which shall: 
 
(a) 
consist of staff appointed and employed with terms of reference, 
functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank at all times during the 
implementation of the Project; 
 
(b) 
be responsible for managing and monitoring the implementation of Parts 
A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project, including the procurement, financial, 
disbursement and reporting requirements under Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of 
the Project; and 
 
(c) 
be responsible for submitting to MEF, timely information needed in 
respect of audits and consolidated Project reporting requirements 
specified in the Loan Agreement. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The CGR shall ensure that Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.  
 
C. 
Other Implementation Arrangements 
 
CGR shall promptly inform MEF and the Bank of any condition which interferes 
with, or threatens to interfere with the performance of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
 
Section II. 
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
CGR shall monitor and evaluate the progress of Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports for Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 (b) of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank and set forth in the OM.  Each 
such Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester and shall be 
Page  5
4
furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report. To that end, CGR shall, not later than 2 weeks 
before the due date for submission by MEF of the consolidated Project Report to 
the Bank, furnish to MEF partial reports covering the implementation of Parts 
A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project for incorporation into, and subsequent forwarding 
to the Bank of the consolidated Project Report for the Loan.  
 
2. 
The CGR shall provide to the Borrower not later than six months after the 
Closing Date, for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 5.08 (c) of the 
General Conditions, all such information as the Borrower or the Bank shall 
reasonably request for the purposes of that Section.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
 
1. 
CGR shall maintain a financial management system and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Parts A.2, Part A.3, and D.2 of the Project. 
 
2. 
CGR, in collaboration with MEF, shall have its financial statements referred to 
above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  To that end, 
CGR shall, not later than March 31 of each year, furnish to MEF its annual 
financial statements for auditing purposes. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Non-Consultant Services.  
 All goods and Non-Consultant Services 
required for Parts A.2, A.3 and D.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in the Procurement Guidelines for the Project Agreement, and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for Parts A.2, Part A.3 
and D.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the 
Consultant Guidelines for this Project Agreement and with the provisions of this 
Section.   
 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refers to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Page  6
5
Guidelines for the Project Agreement or Consultant Guidelines for the Project 
Agreement, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non Consultant Services
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures and 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
prior registration, obtaining a licenses or an agreement shall not be a 
requirement for any bidder to participate in bidding procedures;  
 
(b) 
no bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the 
time of bid opening; 
 
(c) 
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and  
 
(d) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-bid 
meeting as a condition to bid. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services
.
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-
Consultant Services .The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding  subject to the following  provisions: 
 
(i) 
standard bidding documents for NCB, acceptable to the Bank, should 
 be 
used; 
(ii)  foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; 
(iii)  no bids of proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards 
 
shall be made at the time of bid opening; 
(iv)  the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of 
 
bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
(v) 
the invitation to bid shall not require mandatory attendance to a pre-
 
bid meeting as a condition to bid; and 
(vi) potential bidders shall be allowed adequate time to prepare bids 
 
which should not be less than 30 days, except for commodities and 
 
small goods and Non Consultant Services contracts. 
Page  7
6
(b) Shopping, subject to the following provisions: 
 
(i) 
foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with local 
 
authorities as a prerequisite for submitting quotations; and 
(ii)   a minimum of three quotations shall be obtained as a condition to 
 
award the contract. 
(c) 
Direct Contracting, subject to the Bank’s prior consent. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.  
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultant Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
(a) Quality-Based Selection  
(b) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Selection based on Consultant’s Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Bank’s  prior written consent  
(f) Procedures for the selection of Individual Consultants 
3. 
Special provisions. 
All methods of procurement of consultants’ services shall be 
carried out
 
subject to the following special provisions: 
 
(a) 
foreign firms shall not be required to be registered with local authorities 
as a prerequisite for submitting proposals; 
 
(b)  
foreign consultants shall not be required to furnish any certificate issued 
by a local authority about their legal capacity or tax status for the 
purposes of submitting a proposal; and 
 
(c) 
foreign consultants shall not be required to submit their proposals in 
person. 
 
Page  8
7
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth all contracts, including those which shall be 
 
subject to the Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
 
Review by the Bank. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines for the Project Agreement” means the “Guidelines: 
 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published 
 
by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions for the Project Agreement” means the “International Bank 
 
for Reconstruction and Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 
 
1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006). 
 
4. 
“Procurement Guidelines for the Project Agreement” means the “Guidelines: 
 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 
 
2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
5. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, 
 
dated April 12, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
