Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4635-PAN
Loan Agreement
(Public Policy Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 4, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4635-PAN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 2001, between the REPUBLIC OF PANAMA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Administration Arrangement" means the arrangements referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary Agencies" means collectively CGR, CLICAC, MEF, and MICI;
(c)
"CGR" means 
Contraloría General de la República, the Borrower’s General 
Comptroller’s Office;
(d)
"CLICAC" means Comisión de Libre Competencia y Asuntos del Consumidor, 
the Borrower’s Competition and Consumer Affairs Commission;
(e)
"DEC" means Dirección de Estadística y Censo, the Borrower’s Census and 
Statistics Directorate established within CGR;
(f)
"DGCP" means Dirección General de Contrataciones Públicas, the Borrower’s 
Public Procurement General Directorate established within MEF;
(g)
"DPS" means Dirección de Política Social, the Borrower’s Social Policy 
Directorate established within MEF;
(h)
"GDP" means the Borrower’s Gross Domestic Product;
(i)
"Law No. 29" means the Borrower’s Ley por la cual se Dictan Normas Sobre 
la Defensa de la Competencia y se Adoptan Otras Medidas", published in the Borrower’s 
oficial Gazette on February 3, 1996;
(j)
"MEF" means Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy and Finance;
(k)
"MICI" means Ministerio de Comercio e Industrias, the Borrower’s Ministry 
of Commerce and Industries;
(l)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"PCU" means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(o)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement dated February 3, 
1998;
(p)
"Supplemental Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring indicators referred to in 
Section 3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(q)
"UNDP Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.09 of this 
Agreement;
(r)
"WTO Agreements" means the following agreements administered through the 
WTO: Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement, Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual 
Property Rights Agreement, Sanitary and Phyto Sanitary Standards Agreement and 
Agriculture Agreement; and
Page  3
(s)
"WTO" means World Trade Organization, to which the Borrower became a 
member through the Borrower’s Law No. 23 of 1997;
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to ten 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($10,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency 
for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
Page  4
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through the PCU and the Beneficiary Agencies, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, legal, and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives, and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. With regard to the training and capacity building activities to be 
carried out under the Project, in accordance with the implementation plan set forth in 
the Operational Manual, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall:
(a)
by no later than March 31 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, starting in the year 2002, furnish the Bank, for its approval, a plan which 
provides detailed information on the objective, content, schedule, selection criteria, 
budget, and number of participants regarding the respective activities;
(b)
carry out such training and capacity building activities in accordance 
with said plan approved by the Bank; and
(c)
by no later than March 31 of each year during the implementation of the 
Page  5
Project, starting in the year 2003, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each 
such activity, on the proposed strategy for replication and dissemination, as well as 
on the benefits derived therefrom.
Section 3.05. Throughout the course of the Project implementation, the Borrower 
shall maintain a Project coordination unit within MEF.  The Borrower shall ensure that 
the PCU is, at all times, during the implementation of the Project, headed by a 
Project coordinator
(the Project Coordinator), assisted by staff in adequate numbers, 
all with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities as set forth in 
the Operational Manual.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower through MEF shall enter into separate inter institutional 
administrative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (the Administration 
Arrangements), one with each one of the Beneficiary Agencies, setting forth their 
respective responsibilities in the implementation of the Project.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights and carryout its obligations under the Administration Arrangements 
in such a manner as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce any Administration Arrangement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Supplemental Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31 of each year during the implementation of the 
Project, starting in the year 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30 of each year during the implementation 
of the Project, starting in the year 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, without limitation to the other provisions 
of this Agreement, carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank and to be prepared by the PCU, said manual to include 
specific rules and procedures for Project implementation; and
(b)
the Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to time, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate continued Project implementation.  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the United Nations 
Development Agency under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the UNDP 
Agreement), including, inter alia, UNDP’s obligation to maintain, on behalf of the 
Borrower, records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures of the Project, in order to enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement.  The Borrower shall 
exercise its rights and carryout its obligations under said agreement in such a manner 
as to protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to enforce the UNDP Agreement or 
Page  6
any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Page  7
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Operational Manual referred to in Section 3.08 (a) of this 
Agreement has been issued and put into effect;
(b)
that the UNDP Agreement referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement has 
been signed by the parties thereto;
(c)
that the PCU has been properly staffed as set forth in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement;
(d)
that the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement have been contracted to carry out the audits referred to in said section; 
and
(e)
that the Administration Arrangements referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement have been entered into.
Section 5.02. The date January 2, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas
Dirección de Crédito Público
Vía España, Calle 52
Edificio OGAWA 4 Piso
Page  8
Panamá, República de Panamá
Facsimile: 
(507) 223-1405
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
By /s/ Guillermo Ford
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean 
AGREED:
CONTRALORIA GENERAL DE LA REPUBLICA
By /s/ Alvin Weeden
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
  1,390,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
and 90% of local
Page  9
expenditures
(2)
Consultants'
  6,510,000
100% 
services
(3)
Training
  1,355,000
100%
(4)
Refunding of    1,100,000
Amounts due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
(5)
Fee
    105,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Audit fees
     40,000
100%
TOTAL
 10,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "training" means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, rental of facilities and 
equipment, and training materials; and
(d)
the term "audit fees" means the reasonable fees charged by the auditors 
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement for the carrying out of their 
auditing services with respect to the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,000,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months prior to the date of 
this Agreement, but in no case prior to July 1, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for training, as well as for expenditures for goods and 
services not subject to prior review pursuant to Part D.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement or Part D.2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to consolidate and deepen the Borrower’s reforms  
to accelerate growth and reduce poverty by strengthening the Borrower’s economic 
monitoring and planning, policy formulation and execution capacity in: (a) the 
implementation of selected policies; (b) the design of selected reforms; and (c) the 
carrying out of poverty and economic monitoring and analytical evaluations.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  10
Part A:
Trade Reform and Strengthening Institutional Capacity of MICI and CLICAC
1.
Strengthening of MICI’s institutional and technical capacity, in particular its 
capacity to: 
(a)
implement the Borrower’s WTO commitments under the WTO Agreements;
(b)
maintain a well functioning Borrower’s WTO office and enhance such 
offices’ capacity to address inquiries and notifications on trade related issues and 
technical regulations; 
(c)
prepare domestic policy reform programs consistent and integrated with 
multilateral and regional trade institutions; and
(d)
establish a new information center on regulations and standards under the 
jurisdiction of MICI.
2.
Strengthening of MICI institutional capacity to implement trade reforms and 
negotiate multilateral, bilateral and regional integration agreements through, inter 
alia:
(a)
the acquisition of information technology equipment, computer equipment 
and software, technical tools, operational handbooks and related materials to inter 
alia, upgrade the Borrower’s databases on patents and trademarks to support the 
protection of intellectual property rights;
(b)
the provision of training with respect to the establishment of a database 
and research systems to facilitate the Borrower’s WTO negotiations and regional 
negotiations on market access and related issues;
(c)
the carrying out of an assessment of: export opportunities/challenges; 
industry advantage in terms of scale, value-added and specialization; trade 
creation/diversion and other factors affecting the Borrower’s trade agreements;
(d)
the carrying out of workshops and training with respect to negotiations, 
linkages between different negotiating policy areas, and coordination mechanisms 
across the Borrower’s agencies responsible for trade policy matters as well as with 
private sector constituencies; and
(e)
the carrying out of cross-cutting and multi-sector studies and 
diagnostics.
3.
Strengthening of CLICAC’s capacity to implement Law No. 29, through, inter alia:
(a)
the carrying out of sector-specific studies and assessments;
(b)
the acquisition of laboratory equipment and software and the provision of 
technical tools, operational handbooks and related materials; 
(c)
the provision of training to CLICAC’s staff, with respect to the 
upgrading of technical standards and legal metrology and the enforcement of Law No. 29 
and related legal instruments; and 
(d)
the design and implementation of a public information and dissemination 
campaign and corporate programs to facilitate changes in policies affecting 
competition and market transparency.
Part B:
Fiscal Sustainability and Public Sector Efficiency
1.
Strengthening of DEC’s operational capacity to: (a) improve the calculation 
methodologies for the Borrower’s national accounts; (b) modify the base year of said 
national accounts and the consumer’s price index; (c) facilitate quarterly GDP data 
Page  11
production; and (d) upgrade DEC’s existing computer equipment.
2.
Strengthening of MEF Minister’s office capacity to: (a) provide technical advise 
on the design and formulation of macroeconomic policies; (b) achieve consistency of 
economic policies across the Borrower’s ministries and related agencies; and (c) 
monitor macroeconomic performance.
Part C:
Social Spending and Poverty Reduction
Provision of technical assistance to improve the targeting and efficiency of the 
Borrower’s current public social spending and poverty reduction programs, through:  
(a) the design and implementation of a survey of living conditions; (b) the carrying 
out of poverty and vulnerability analyses with data generated from said survey; (c) 
the carrying out of a comprehensive study of the Borrower’s public social spending; 
(d) the design and implementation of a poverty monitoring system; and (e) the 
strengthening of DPS.
Part D:
Public Procurement System
1.
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen DGCP and other public 
procurement units selected by the Borrower, through:  (i) the development of standard 
bidding documents of general application; (ii) the design and implementation of a 
human resource policy; (iii) the carrying out of an assessment and subsequent 
adjustment of current procedures; (iv) the carrying out of an assessment of the 
available human resources; and (v) the design and implementation of a training program 
for the Borrower’s procurement officials.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to develop a public 
procurement information system, including the design and implementation of such 
system’s electronic government procurement component.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to review the Borrower's existing procurement 
legal and regulatory framework, and prepare the necessary amendment to such framework, 
and carrying out of workshops with critical stakeholders to discuss the proposed 
amendments.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
  (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
     Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2007
through October 15, 2016
525,000
Page  12
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Sections I and III of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000  equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with Part B above, 
as well as the first three contracts procured in accordance with Part C.1 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply;
Page  13
(b)
With respect to the first three contracts procured in accordance with 
Part C.2 above, the procedures referred to in the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Sections II and III of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
Page  14
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, terms of reference of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, terms of reference 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to:
(a)
have a local representative for purposes of  submitting bids;
(b)
be registered with local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding; and
(c)
be associated with local contractors or suppliers.
2.
Bids may be submitted before bid opening, either by mail or courier or in 
person.
3.
No bids shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made at the time 
of bid opening.
4.
No minimum number of bids shall be required as a condition to award a contract.
5.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall expressly 
govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bids may be submitted before bid opening, either by mail or courier or in 
person; and
2.
No bids of proposals shall be rejected, and no provisional awards shall be made 
at the time of bid opening.
Page  15
3.
No minimum number of bids or proposals shall be required as a condition to award 
a contract.
4.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been evaluated as the 
lowest responsive bid, in accordance with criteria clearly set forth in the standard 
bidding documents.
C.
In addition to and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
Foreign consultants shall not be required to:
(1)
be locally registered as a condition of participation in the selection process;
(2)
be required to enter into association with other firms to submit a proposal or 
sign a contract;
(3)
furnish any certificate issued by a local authority about their legal capacity 
or tax status for the purposes of submitting a proposal; and
(4)
submit their proposals in person.
