Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H288-COB 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for A
 
Transparency  
and Governance Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 17, 2007 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H288-COB 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 17, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
CONGO (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to  
ten million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,100,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Euro. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consists of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has enhanced its financial management system referred to 
in Section II B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association. 
(b)  
The Recipient has revised the Project Administrative, Accounting and 
Financial Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.  
(c) 
The Recipient has recruited: (i) an Accountant; and (ii) the Auditors 
referred to in Section II B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all in 
accordance with the provisions of Section III, C of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
(d) 
The Recipient has deposited an initial amount equivalent to $2,200,000 
into the Project Account. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
B.P. 2083 
Brazzaville 
Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
242-814145  
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED in Washington, DC, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By /s/ Jean Mbossa Mbolla 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Hartwig Schafer 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in enhancing governance, 
transparency and effectiveness in public sector financial management, including the oil 
sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Petroleum Sector Governance
Strengthening the financial, legal and technical environment of the Petroleum 
sector through: 
1. 
carrying out of annual audits of SNPC and quarterly certifications of 
transfers of oil sector revenues to the State Treasury; 
2. 
conceptualization and installation of a database and an open information 
management system for the oil sector; 
3. 
strengthening the capacity of the oil sector monitoring units in DGH and  
MEFB; 
4. 
developing independent oversight mechanisms for oil sector governance 
and for implementation of EITI; 
5. 
support for implementation of HIPC related oil sector audits and studies; 
and 
6. 
design of a medium term strategy for development of the oil sector, 
including key aspects of its governance. 
Part 2
:
Enhancement of Governance Capacity
(a) 
Strengthening anti-corruption structures through: 
1. 
capacity building and institutional support to the Anti-Corruption 
Observatory; 
2. 
capacity building and institutional support to the Anti-Corruption 
Commission; 
(b)  
Strengthening management, organization and procedures for public financial 
management through: 
Page  7
6
1. 
strengthening budget management procedures;  
2. 
strengthening internal organization and management systems in MEFB, 
and MFP inter alia by carrying out organizational audits; and 
3. strengthening 
MEFB’s capacity through provision of training and 
required equipment. 
(c) 
Computerization of public financial management, including wage bill 
management, through: 
1. 
support for computerization of the budget process and networking for 
key ministries, including MEFB, MFP, MDS, MDE, MPATIED and 
other selected ministries; and 
2. 
support for harmonization of personnel records and development of an 
integrated personnel data system, including advisory services and 
training for design and implementation of a unified register for personnel 
records and linkage between relevant databases for pension and social 
security administrations. 
(d)  
Strengthening capacity in procurement and public investment management 
through: 
1. 
support for implementation of public procurement reform, including 
design and installation of a procurement tracking system and advisory 
support and training for implementation of new procurement legislation 
and practices; 
2. 
strengthening of the Recipient’s capacity to formulate and implement 
adequate public investment programs and provision of training to 
enhance expertise for design and monitoring of individual projects to be 
included in the public investment program. 
Part 3
:
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
Acquisition of technical advisory services and provision of equipment required to 
strengthen PCU’s capacity to manage and monitor the execution of the Project. 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
The Recipient shall maintain the following institutional structure: 
1. IRIC
For purposes of coordination and general oversight of the Project, the Recipient 
shall establish and maintain IRIC in form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association, until the completion of the Project. 
IRIC shall be chaired by the Director of Cabinet of MEFB or his substitute, and 
will be composed of all the General Directors and Directors of the Executing 
Agencies who shall report directly to the Director of Cabinet. IRIC shall, 
inter 
alia:
 (a) facilitate working relations amongst all the Executing Agencies and 
private sector agencies concerned with Project implementation; (b) review the 
progress made o
r
being made towards achieving the Project’s objectives; (c) 
approve all decisions regarding the selection of tasks, the awarding of contracts 
and the selection of consultants; and (d) organize regular operational meetings. 
2. PCU
(a)  
The Recipient shall maintain a PCU under the supervision of IRIC in a 
form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association 
until the completion of the Project. PCU shall consist of a number of key staff, 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, including a Project coordinator, a finance director, a procurement 
specialist and an accountant. PCU shall be responsible for, in particular, the 
implementation of Part C.3 of the Project, and in general: (i) the management of 
Project funds; (ii) installation and maintenance of sound financial and accounting 
procedures; (iii) procurement activities; (iv) reporting to the Recipient and the 
Association; (v) organizing quarterly reviews of the Project and reporting to 
IRIC; and (vi) ensuring coordination of all training activities. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained within PCU a 
Financial Management Section (FMS) in a form and with functions, staffing and 
resources satisfactory to the Association. The FMS will be headed by a Finance 
Director and will be responsible in accordance with the Project Administrative, 
Accounting and Financial Manual (PAAFM), for the financial management of 
the Project including the preparation and production of the annual financial 
Page  9
8
statements and ensuring that the financial management system for the Project is 
acceptable to the Association.  
B. Implementation 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual, and except as the Recipient 
and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive 
any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall: (a) open and thereafter maintain the Project Account in a 
commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association;  
(b) deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $2,200,000; 
and (c) deposit by April 1 of each calendar year during the Project 
implementation period an additional amount equivalent to $1,700,000.  
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report, not later than 
45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports 
for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Page  10
9
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one calendar year. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than six months after the end of such period.  
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. Goods
 and services other than consultants’ services.
 
All goods and services 
other than consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and services other than consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods and services other than consultants’ services.  The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  Shopping 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
Page  11
10
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which ma
y
be
used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods and services other than consultants’ services 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for goods and services other 
than consultants’ services procured under Direct Contracting; (c) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, procured on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection or 
on the basis of Least Cost Selection; (d) the first contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm procured under 
Selection based on Consultants’ 
Qualifications; and 
(e) each contract for  the services of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  12
11
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(inclusive of 
Taxes) 
 
(1) Goods 
 
2,170,000 
100% 
(2) Consultants’ 
services and 
training  
 6,430,000 
100% 
(3) Operating 
Costs 
 1,040,000 
100%
 
(4) Unallocated 
 
460,000 
 
TOTAL 
AMOUNT 
 10,100,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1. 
The Closing Date is 30 June, 2010. 
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Commission” means the structure referred to under Part 2 (a) 2 
of the Project. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Anti-Corruption Observatory” means the structure referred to under Part 2 (a) 1 
of the Project. 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
6. “DGH” 
means 
Direction Générale des Hydrocarbures
 established with the 
Recipient
’s Ministry in charge of Hydrocarbons.   
7. 
“EITI” means the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative referred to under 
Part 1 (4) of the Project. 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
9. 
“IRIC” means the Inter-ministerial Reform Implementation Committee referred 
to in Section I A (1) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
10. 
“MDE” means “
Ministère de l’Education
”, the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
Education. 
11. 
“MDS” means “
Ministère de la Santé
”, the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
Health. 
12. “MEFB” 
means 
Ministère de l’Economie, des Finances et du Budget
,
the 
Recipient
’s Ministry of in charge of finance.
 
13. “MFP” 
means 
Ministère de la Fonction Publique, 
the Recipient’s Ministry in 
charge of the civil service. 
Page  14
13
14. 
“MPATIED” means 
Ministère du Plan, de l’Aménagement du Territoire, de 
l’Intégration Economique et du NEPAD
,
the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
planning.  
15. 
“Operating Costs” means incremental operating costs arising under the Project on 
account of Project coordination, implementation and monitoring activities 
undertaken by the implementing agencies of the Recipient, including office 
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance costs, utilities, communication 
charges, per diems and travel allowances, but excluding the salaries of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
16. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project between the Recipient 
and the Association, dated February 27, 2002 as amended to the date of this 
Agreement (Credit No 3600). 
17. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
18. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit referred to under Part 3 of the 
Project. 
19. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
20. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated 30 January, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
21. 
“Project Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual” or “PAAFM” means 
the manual outlining the administrative, financial, accounting, disbursement and 
procurement arrangements and procedures for the implementation of the Project. 
22. “SNPC” 
means 
Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo,
 the Recipient
’s 
National Petroleum Company, established pursuant to Law No. 1/98 dated  
April 23, 1998. 
 
