Report No. PID10370
Project Name                             Congo, Republic of - Transparency and Governance
Capacity Building Project
Region                                   Africa
Sector                                   Public Sector Management
Project ID                               CGPE73507
Borrower                                 Government of Republic of Congo
Implementing Agency                      Ministry of Economy and Finance
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo
Date PID Prepared                        May 16, 2001
Project Appraisal                        July 23, 2001
Project Board Date                       September 27, 2001
1.      Country Background: An Enduring Political and Economic Turmoil
Since independence in 1960, nearly three decades of centrally planned
government, almost one decade of conflict and political strife, left the
Republic of Congo well below its economic development potential.
The economy of the country is a mixture of village agriculture and
handicrafts, an industrial sector based largely on oil, support services, and
a government characterized by budget problems and overstaffing. With a GNP
per capita of US$670, the Republic of Congo ranks 12th amongst all Sub-Saharan
African countries. Oil, which accounts for more than half in the country GDP,
has supplanted forestry as the mainstay of the economy . Earlier large-scale
investment but low-return projects financed by high oil prices could only be
subsequently sustained through heavy borrowings. In the late 1980s, lower oil
prices, fiscal imbalances and misalignment of the CFAF led to substantial
economic decline.
In the mid-1990s, government's efforts to bring economic relief could not
reach their objectives as conflicts broke out in 1997 and did not permit any
stabilization of the economy. Economic activity was further hampered by the
fact that over 800,000 Congolese, nearly 30t of the population, fled their
homes during the 1998-1999 conflict.
Following the cessation of hostilities in November 1999, the Government of
Congo (GoC) has initiated the peace process on its own account. The re-
installation of most population displaced during the war has already been
accomplished. GoC is now committed to continue the dialogue with all
political parties. A referendum for a new Constitution is to take place in
the first part of 2001 and general elections for the Presidency and Parliament
are scheduled by the end of 2001-early 2002. Economic rehabilitation will not
be an easy task. Indeed, mismanagement of the economy and war have left the
country with heavy indebtedness, half of agricultural tools destroyed, 75t of
livestock lost, insufficient and insecure urban and rural infrastructure and
basic services, lack of appropriate health and education facilities, high



unemployment rate, a bankrupt financial system and a less than satisfactory
management of natural resources, particularly oil and forestry.
By the end of 1999, total public debt amounted to about US$5.4 billion, that
is close to 2 § times the country GDP and 3 times total exports. More than 80%
of the public debt was to foreign creditors. The outstanding amount of
external debt service arrears was US$2.4 billion in late 2000. As of March
2001, the country's arrears to the Bank totaled US$58 million.
GoC's economic reform program is presented in its Three-year Interim Post-
Conflict Program (GPCP) for the period 2000-2002. GPCP is built on a reform
agenda that includes: the introduction of sound macroeconomic policies and
stabilization measures, particularly in the fields of public finance
management, pursuing the privatization program, improving governance,
accountability and transparency, and revising almost completely the business
regulatory framework.
Progress has already been made on several fronts. As provided under the IMF
Post-Conflict Emergency Program for the period 2000-01, the Government has
resumed its debt service payments to all multilateral creditors and on post-
cut-off-date debt to Paris Club creditors. Public finances are being
rationalized through the launching of a computerized expenditures control
system and measures to enhance revenue collection of the customs
administration and the Treasury are also underway. Salaries of civil servants
have been frozen, and recruitment, except in health and education, has been
suspended. As described below, important reforms are also being introduced in
the financial sector under the general umbrella of the government's
privatization program.
A privatization program, supported by the Bank and the French Development
Agency, is in place under the direction of a National Committee. Six major
state companies are on the priority list for privatization, including the oil
refinery and Hydro-Congo, the former oil downstream and upstream monopoly
company, and principal government enterprises in the area of
telecommunications, electricity water and transport (including the port of
Pointe Noire). The second priority of GoC's program of privatization covers
forestry and the agro-industries, hotels, and other enterprises in the
transport sector. In the financial sector, bank restructuring is taking
place, and transfer of ownership from all three banks to international private
banks is expected to be completed soon.
Moving to a market economy requires simultaneous transitions on several
fronts. New laws or regulations are required in nearly every sector,
including forests, markets, labor relations, mining, telecommunications,
energy and water. Recently, a new investment charter, drafted after broad
based consultations with the private sector and Government representatives,
should receive GRC approval in the near future.
In the Oil and Gas Sector, SNPC (Societe Nationale des Petroles du Congo) has
assumed upstream functions of the State Company, Hydro-Congo, when exploration
and assets were formerly transferred to SNPC in February 2000. The process of
privatizing oil downstream operations is underway. GoC has also enacted new
hydrocarbon legislation offering production-sharing agreements (PSAs) to
foreign oil companies. The PSAs are designed to replace joint venture
arrangements in existence since 1968 that have not been advantageous to the
- 2 -



State. While all major operators in Congo have signed PSAs for their
respective field developments, the key issue in the oil industry in the
country continues to be the share of the state in its petroleum production,
one of the lowest in the world according to the IMF.
The Agricultural Sector has been neglected and consists mostly of subsistence
farming. Cassava is the main food crop, coffee and cocoa are the main cash
crops and sugar and tobacco are also grown. The Republic of Congo is heavily
forested with around 57 percent forest cover and an additional 16 percent of
other wooded land. Dense equatorial forest blankets significant portions of
the Congo, particularly the northern half of the country, and around the
Chaillu massif in the southeast. The country is a significant producer of
tropical hardwood timbers. Significant volumes of logs are also exported.
Important non-wood forest products in Congo are wild fruits, forest
vegetables, medicinal plants, construction materials, and bushmeat. With a
large portion of the country covered in tropical rainforest, the timber
industry in Congo supplies a good portion of the country's export revenue.
With World Bank assistance, environmental protection are being put in place to
ensure that the forestry sector is able to sustain itself. A small
manufacturing sector deals mostly with agricultural and forestry products.
Forests cover 60t of Congo's territory, provide directly for more than 10,000
permanent jobs, and are the second formal economic sector after the oil
sector. Production forestry activities exist and are relatively large on the
forest plantation and forest exploitation fronts, with export earnings
accruing from both natural forests and plantations. The potential for
exporting environmental services such as carbon sequestration and bio-
diversity prospecting is thought to be very considerable. However it is little
known and unutilized in the absence of adequate internationally accepted
financial mechanisms. Current annual forest sector fiscal revenues amount to
less than US$3.5 million. They have potential to grow fast as adequate fiscal
discipline measures can be enacted.
The Government of Congo has recently unilaterally decided to embrace a
forestry-based environmental agenda. It has expanded conservation areas to
cover 11  of the country's territory and has approved a new forest
legislation. It has also requested to introduce a forest sector reform agenda
into the ERC operation that supports the recently approved Transitional
Support Strategy. This program involves activities and reforms in the
following five areas:
?       Acceleration in the implementation of the new forest law and related
institutional improvements
?       Forest sector transparency and good governance operations and capacity
building
?       Improvement of the economic performance of the forest sector through
fiscal discipline and review of the role of state institutions working in the
forest sector.
?       Bio-diversity conservation and improvement of forest management
practices and
?       Integration of forest sector actors in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The proposed TA operation will enable the Govt. of Congo undertake studies and
acquire expertise to work out the details and implement the above reforms in a
satisfactory manner. Specific activities to be supported include institutional
studies, international exchanges, setting up of private/public partnerships
-3 -



and capacity building in the key areas of governance and sectoral performance
monitoring.
State Organization and Issues The present transitional government came to
power in October 1997, following a five-month period of civil war. Fighting,
primarily in the capital and southern Pool region, resumed the following year
and continued until the government and rebels signed cease-fire agreements in
November and December 1999. Soon after taking position GoC replaced Congo's'
1992 constitution with a new Fundamental Act.
The Fundamental Act establishes a strong and highly centralized presidential
system of government. The President wields executive power without meaningful
legislative or judicial constraints. He appoints all members of the
Government , all senior military officers and all sub-national government
officials, serves as commander in chief of the armed forces, and is mandated
specifically to direct the general policy of the Government and exercises
regulatory powers.
Legislative authority is vested in a 75-member National Transition Council
(NTC, Conseil national de transition), a body that was elected at the National
Reconciliation Forum convoked by the Government in January 1998. A draft new
constitution has already been prepared and is under discussion in the context
of the national dialogue.
The Fundamental Act mandates the President to ensure independence of the
judiciary through the Higher Council of Magistrates; however, in practice, the
judiciary continued to be overburdened, under-financed, and subject to
corruption and political influence. Resource problems increased as a result
of the destruction and looting sustained by judicial facilities during the
1997 civil war.
Congo is divided into eleven Regions (Brazzaville, the capital city, being its
own Region), each with a Prefet nominated by GoC. Regions are in turn sub-
divided into districts, headed administratively by a Sous-Prefet, also
government appointees. Villages and urban areas are headed respectively by
chiefs and mayors, who have been elected irregularly in the past.
2.      Sector and Project Background
The Bank has a critical role to play in supporting the Government's Interim
Post-Conflict Program, complementing activities of the IMF and the
international community and helping ensure stability during the difficult
transition process ahead. To that end, the Bank has prepared a Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS). The TSS is to support the Government of Congo
Brazzaville in facing the four simultaneous challenges of consolidating its
home-grown peace process and solidifying for the democratization of political
life, physically reconstruction of the country, and improving economic
management, including increased transparency and good governance in public
resources management.
More precisely, the Bank will support critical reforms through a series of
lending and non-lending activities. A quick disbursing Emergency Economic
Recovery Credit (EERC) will aim at a progressive disengagement of the state
from the economy and higher transparency in the budgetary process and its
management of natural resources. Implementation of the actions identified
- 4 -



under the EERC would be financed by a technical support credit that would
provide the Government with the tools necessary to enhance the transparency of
its most important activities in the mobilization and use of its national
resources. An emergency economic and social reconstruction project, as well
as a public expenditure review, a natural resource management, a social
assessment and a labor market analysis, will also be covered under the TSS.
Project Objectives and Project Description
The proposed project is an integral part of the reforms action program
contemplated under the EERC. The Project will focus on the whole issue of
transparency of decision making in the government and its agencies, with
priority given to the management of oil resources and to the state budget
expenditures processes and control, including public procurement law and
guidelines. The project will also be instrumental in achieving greater
transparency of government disengagement of the economy as it will help
strengthen the Privatization Committee, draft the implementation decrees
permitting greater participation of the private sectors in utilities ownership
and management. Finally, the project will help design new information data
collection systems in the social ministries of education and health, thereby
paving the way for reforms that would permit greater distribution of income
and participation in the national wealth of oil resources as well as
community-driven development.
4.      Project Cost and Financing
Project costs are estimated at US$8.6 million. IDA would finance about
58t of total project costs (US$5.0 million). It is expected that ADB would
finance about US$3.5 million. The French assistance has already agreed to
finance up to US$124,000 of technical assistance to budget administration.
Should these complementary financing do not materialize, the project scope
would have to be substantially reduced.
5.      Project Implementation
The overall coordination of activities will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget. This ministry will be assisted by a
Project Implementation Unit, which will coordinate activities on a daily basis
and will handle the project's financial management function. This Unit will
be financed by the project.
6.      Project Sustainability
Government is committed to the successful completion of the project's
activities, which will strengthen government institutions, agencies and
processes to be more efficient with its strategy to lasting peace, economic
recovery and rehabilitation. The government is even more committed because the
project will facilitate the implementation of the Transitional Support
Strategy financed by the Bank.
7.      Poverty Category
The proposed operation does not have a targeted poverty focus, but the
strengthening of the partnership between government, civil society and
private sector will have an indirect and influential effect on poverty related
- 5 -



programs and poverty reduction.
8.      Environmental Aspects
The proposed project is essentially a technical assistance operation for
capacity building, therefore, no adverse environmental impact is foreseen. In
accordance with the Association's operational directives on environmental
assessments (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in
Category C and does not require an environmental assessment.
9.      Project Benefits
The project is an integral part of the reforms action program contemplated
under the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy. Some of the benefits are the
following:
The project will improve transparency of decision making in the government and
its agencies, with priority given to the management of oil wealth and
resources and to the state budget expenditures processes and control,
including public procurement law and guidelines; new procedures and controls
will lead to increasing public revenues.
The operation will be instrumental in achieving greater transparency of
government disengagement of the economy as it will help strengthen the
privatization program, draft the implementation decrees permitting greater
participation of the private sector in utilities and management.
The project will help design new information data collection systems in the
social ministries of education and health, thereby paving the way for reforms
that would permit greater distribution of income and participation in the
national wealth of oil resources as well as community driven development.
The operation's financial and technical support will go primarily to strategic
agencies and entities needed to ensure economic recovery and rehabilitation as
well as long- term development objectives.
10.     Risks
The first risk is a resurgence of political instability and violence in
the country, especially if the international community fails to support the
home-grown peace process. A strong donors' support is needed for a
comprehensive disarmament, demobilization and reintegration program.
The second risk is the weak institutional and implementation capacity of
the public administration. This risk will be mitigated by:
the substantial and coordinated technical assistance to the provided by the
Bank and other donors in support of government's efforts to strengthen
capacity; and
the dialogue and partnership among government, civil society and the private.
The opening of the Bank's liaison office in Brazzaville before the end of this
fiscal year will improve the coordination of Bank's activities in Congo.
11.     Contact Point:
-6-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Telephone: (202) 456-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Congo is sub-Sahara's third largest oil producer (after Nigeria and Angola), with
estimated proven reserves of 1.5 billion barrels. The country's total production,
on the rise since 1980, but now stationary and projected to decline in coming years, was
265,000 barrels per day (bbl/d) in 1999 and 2000. Consumption in 1997 and 1998 of refined
petroleum products was of the order of 385,000 tons per year (8,000 bpd). Net oil exports
were approximately 12,2 million tons in 1997 (245,000 bpd) and 12.8 million tons in 1998
(257,000 bpd).
In the 1992 Constitution, the Parliament had two chambers. The Assembl6e
nationale (National Assembly) had 125 members for a five-year term in single seat
constituencies. The Senate (Senate) had 60 members, elected partially every two years for
a six-year term by district, local and regional councils.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 1, 2001.
- 7 -



