Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3600 COB
Development Credit Agreement
(Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 27, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3600 COB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 27, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
Page  2
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; and
(B) 
the Association has received a letter (the Policy Letter), dated October 22, 2001, 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen transparency and good governance in the Borrower’s petroleum, fiscal and 
privatization operations (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AGIP”, “TEP-CONGO” and “NOMECO” refer to private oil producing 
companies operating in the territory of, and under the laws of, the Borrower and with whom the 
Borrower has entered into production sharing agreements in the case of AGIP and TEP- 
Page  3
CONGO, and a concession agreement in the case of NOMECO;
(b)
“CCA” means 
Caisse Congolaise d’Amortissement, 
the Ministry of Finance, 
Economy and Budget Agency in charge of the administration of the public debt and state 
investments
;
(c)
“CDC” means 
Cour des Comptes,
 the Borrower’s supreme independent audit 
institution, established pursuant to Law No. 22/92 of August 20, 1992, as amended by Law No. 
19/99 dated August 15, 1999;
(d)
“CFE” and 
Centre de Formalités des Entreprises, 
means
the Enterprise 
Reception Center of the Borrower, an autonomous agency operating under the tutelage of the 
MCPME (hereinafter defined), established pursuant to Decree No. 95-193 dated Oct. 18, 1995; 
(e)
“COGEPACO” means 
Confédération Générale du Patronat Congolais
;
(f)
“CP” means the Borrower’s Committee of Privatization, established pursuant to 
Loi Cadre
 No. 81/94 dated August 10, 1994;
(g)
“DCMCE” means
 Direction Centrale des Marchés et des Contrats de l’Etat,
 the 
Borrower’s National Tender Board established pursuant to Decree No 82/329 dated April 22, 
1982;
(h)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(i)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(j)
“Executing Agencies” means collectively, relevant government agencies and 
government ministries involved with Project implementation as set forth in the PIM (as 
hereinafter defined), including the MoEFB, CP, CFE, MoHe and MoHy (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
“FCFA” means 
Francs de la Coopération Financière en Afrique,
 the currency of 
the Borrower;
(l)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31 in the same year;
(m)
“HIV/AIDS” means Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus/Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome;
(n)
“IRIC” means the Inter-ministerial Reform Implementation Committee to be 
created by the Borrower operating under MoEFB (as hereinafter defined), and referred to in 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement;
(o)
“MAT” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Territorial Management;
(p)
“MCPME” and 
“Ministère du Commerce et Promotion des Petites et Moyennes 
Entreprises”
 means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of commerce and small and medium 
Page  4
enterprises;
(q)
“MDISP” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Industrial Development 
and Private Sector Promotion;
(r)
“MoEFB” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Economy, Finance and 
Budget;
(s)
“MoHe” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Health;
(t)
“MoHy” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Hydrocarbons;
(u)
“MoL” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of Labor;
(v)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating 
pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(w)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in paragraph 2 of Part 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(x)
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual (
Manuel de Procédure du 
Projet
)
referred to in Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement setting forth, 
inter alia, 
the 
administrative, financial and accounting procedures, the procurement and disbursement 
procedures and arrangements to be used for the implementation of the Project, as the same may 
be amended from time to time with the Association’s prior written consent, and such term to 
include any schedules, tables and annexes to the PIM. For purposes of this Agreement, it is 
understood that the PIP (as hereinafter defined) shall be deemed to be a schedule to the PIM and 
an integral part thereof;
(y)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan containing, 
inter alia, 
the planning 
of activities, their costs and time tables, and the procurement methods used;
(z)
“PITCC” means the Project Inter-Agency Technical Coordination Committee of 
the Borrower referred to in Section 5.02 of this Agreement;
(aa)
“PNLS” means 
Programme National de Lutte contre le Sida, 
the Borrower’s 
national program against HIV/AIDS within MoHe, created pursuant to 
Arrêté 
No. 
6480/MSAS/CAB;
(bb)
“Private Sector Entities” means organizations representing, 
inter alia
,
employers, labor unions, 
chambres de commerce
, and the COGEPACO; 
(cc)
 
“Project Management Report” and “PMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(dd)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance granted 
by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter Agreement signed on behalf of the 
Page  5
Association and  the Borrower on December 11, 2001;
(ee)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(ff)
“SNPC” means 
Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo,
 the Borrower’s 
National Petroleum Company, established pursuant to Law No. 1/98 dated April 23, 1998.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
5,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled
.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007
 
or
such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
Page  6
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and 
August 1 commencing February 1, 2012 and ending August 1, 2041. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on August 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project or cause 
it to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, governance and public health practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after
 the
 Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan to ensure the 
continuous objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
Page  8
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
Page  9
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall, by August 31, 2002, set up IRIC with functions, 
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, by September 30, 2002, set up PITCC with functions, 
staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.03 The Borrower shall, by November 30, 2002, employ the independent 
auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof shall be carried out.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial management system within PCU for the 
purposes of the Project, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; and
Page  10
(c)
the Borrower has prepared a procurement plan for the first year of Project 
implementation, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 7.02. The date one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
B.P. 2083
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo
Facsimile:
242-814145
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
Page  11
By /s/ Serge Mombouli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   440,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures 
(2)
Consultants’ services,
3,580,000
100%
training and workshops
(3)
Operating Costs
   440,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
Page  12
80% of local
expenditures  
(4)
Refunding of                                  560,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (b) of
Advance
this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated                                   580,000
TOTAL                                      5,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; provided, 
however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of 
which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs arising under 
the Project on account of audits, maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, 
utilities, consumables, travel per diems and allowances, travel accommodation, office rental and 
Project support staff recruited to work in the PCU, but excluding salaries of Borrower’s civil 
service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 50,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (3) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after June 1, 2001.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms, less than $50,000 for individual consultants, and studies, 
workshops and training, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in FCFA a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Page  13
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
Page  14
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 500,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 250,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
Page  15
out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of FCFA 
500,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in improving transparency and good 
Page  16
governance in selected public sector activities within its territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:  Petroleum Sector Management
Strengthening the financial, legal and technical environment of the Petroleum sector 
through:
1.
carrying out of financial and operational audits of SNPC, AGIP, TEP-CONGO and 
NOMECO, by providing technical advisory services;
2.
completing the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework for the petroleum
 
sector, by providing technical and legal advisory services;
3.
carrying out of a comprehensive diagnostic study aimed at assessing the current 
financial, operational, technical, legal, procurement and contractual arrangements of the 
petroleum sector with a view to designing a comprehensive reform program, by providing 
technical and legal advisory services; and
4.
implementing the reform program made under Part A (3) above, by providing technical 
advisory services and training to staff of MoHy and SNPC.
Part B
:  Public Sector Management
Strengthening transparency, accountability, good economic governance and financial 
management capacity in MoEFB through:
1.
Reviewing and strengthening the organization and procedures for strategic planning and 
economic management, public expenditures and accounting, budget preparation and 
implementation, internal audit procedures and controls, fiscal and customs controls, procurement 
of public goods and services and communication channels within MoEFB, through the provision 
of technical advisory services and training to staff, and the acquisition of equipment; and
2.
Strengthening the capacities of MoEFB, DMCE, CDC and CCA on matters relating to 
public finance, taxation, public accounting and statistics through the provision of technical 
advisory services and training  to staff, and the acquisition of equipment.
Part C
:  Private Sector Development
Providing support to the Borrower’s privatization process and assisting in the promotion 
of local and foreign investments through:
1.
strengthening the capacity and institutional framework of CP and creation of a regulatory 
agency to regulate and monitor the delivery of services by newly privatized public utilities 
through the provision of technical advisory services including training of staff;
2.
carrying out of a diagnostic study on the existing institutional and administrative 
Page  17
arrangements aimed at attracting foreign and local direct investment so as to strengthen the 
Borrowers policies, programs and institutions through the provision of technical advisory 
services; and
3.
strengthening the partnership between the Borrower, in particular MoEFB, MoL, MAT, 
MDISP and MCPME, and civil society through, 
inter alia:
 (a) preparing and organizing seminars 
for staff of the Ministries heretofore indicated, selected staff of NGOs and Private Sector 
Entities; (b) carrying out of studies on micro-enterprises; and (c) setting up of small consultative 
fora, all through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment for 
the staff of the Ministries heretofore indicated in the partnership.
Part D
:  HIV/AIDS National Action Plan Preparation
Assisting the Borrower to prepare a national action plan for the fight against the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic through the provision of technical advisory services to the staff of MoHe 
and PNLS.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:  General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country”  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:  International Competitive Bidding
1.
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
Page  18
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
:  Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, the first three contracts of less than $100,000 under national competitive bidding, the first 
three contracts of less than $25,000 under national or international shopping, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:  General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Page  19
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 
of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:  Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for auditing services pertaining to the financial audit of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:  Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits pertaining to the financial audit of the Project and other services of a 
standard nature estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate 
amount of $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for small assignments estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract and up to an aggregate amount of $200,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for lectures and small studies shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants under contracts estimated to cost less than $10,000 and up to an 
aggregated amount of $200,000, may be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:  Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
Page  20
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part 1
:   General Institutional Structure
1.
IRIC
For the purpose of coordination and general oversight of the Project, the Borrower shall 
establish and maintain IRIC in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to 
the Association, until the completion of the Project. IRIC shall be chaired by the Director of 
Cabinet of MoEFB or his substitute, and will be composed of all the General Directors and 
Directors of the Executing Agencies who shall report directly to the Director of Cabinet. IRIC 
shall, 
inter alia:
 (a) facilitate working relations amongst all the Executing Agencies and private 
sector agencies concerned with Project implementation; (b) review the progress made or being 
made towards achieving the Project’s objectives; (c) approve all decisions regarding the selection 
Page  21
of tasks, the awarding of contracts and the selection of consultants; and (d) organize regular 
operational meetings. 
2.
PCU
(a) 
The Borrower shall maintain a PCU under the supervision of IRIC in a form and 
with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association until the completion of the 
Project. PCU shall consist of a number of key staff, appointed in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, including a Project Coordinator, a Finance 
Director, a Procurement Specialist and an Accountant. PCU shall be responsible for, in 
particular, the implementation of Part C.3 of the Project, and in general: (i) the management of 
Project funds; (ii) installation and maintenance of sound financial and accounting procedures; 
(iii) procurement activities; (iv) reporting to the Borrower and the Association; (v) organizing 
quarterly reviews of the Project and reporting to IRIC; and (vi) ensuring coordination of all 
training activities.
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained within PCU a Financial 
Management Section in a form and with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the 
Association. The FMS will be headed by a Finance Director and will be responsible in 
accordance with the PIM, for the financial management of the Project including the preparation 
and production of the annual financial statements and ensuring that the financial management 
system for the Project is acceptable to the Association. 
3.
PITCC
The Borrower shall establish and maintain PITCC in a form and with functions, staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Association which shall be responsible for the establishment, 
implementation and coordination of an independent monitoring and evaluation system for the 
Project. PITCC will be located within MoEFB and will be composed of representatives of all the 
executing agencies, representatives of civil society and the private sector agencies concerned 
with Project Implementation. PITCC will provide quarterly reports and feedback on progress of 
Project activities to IRIC and PCU.
4.
MoHy
The Borrower shall maintain MoHy in a form and with functions acceptable to the 
Association until the completion of Part A of the Project. MoHy will be responsible for 
supervising and implementing the activities under Part A of the Project in accordance with the 
PIM and will submit, through his 
Directeur Général des Hydrocarbures
,
quarterly reports to 
IRIC and PCU.
5.
MoEFB
The Borrower shall maintain MoEFB in a form and with functions acceptable to the 
Association until the completion of the Project. MoEFB will be responsible for supervising and 
implementing the activities under Part B of the Project in accordance with the PIM and will 
Page  22
submit, through his 
Directeur de l’Ajustement et de Programme,
 quarterly reports to IRIC and 
PCU.
6.
CP
The Borrower shall maintain CP in a form and with functions acceptable to the 
Association until the completion of the Project. CP will be responsible for supervising and 
implementing the activities under Part C.1 of the Project, in accordance with the PIM, and will 
submit quarterly reports to IRIC and PCU.
7.
CFE
The Borrower shall maintain CFE in a form and with functions acceptable to the 
Association until the completion of the Project. CFE will be responsible for supervising and 
implementing the activities under Part C.2 of the Project in accordance with the PIM and will 
submit quarterly reports to IRIC and PCU.
8.
PNLS
The Borrower shall maintain the PNLS in a form and with functions acceptable to the 
Association until the completion of the Project. PNLS will be responsible for supervising and 
implementing the activities under Part D of the Project in accordance with the PIM and will 
submit quarterly reports to IRIC and PCU.
Part 2
:  Project Implementation Manual, Reports and Reviews
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Implementation Manual; and 
(b) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the PIM or any provision thereof, in 
a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
Prior to the preparation of Project Management Reports pursuant to Section 4.02 (b) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its review, quarterly progress 
reports on the status of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare through PCU, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, no later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
Page  23
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with IRIC and the Association, not later than 4 weeks after the 
submission of the report referred to in paragraph b of this Section, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
IRIC’s and the Association’s views.
4. 
The Borrower shall on or about twenty-four months after the Effective Date, carry out 
jointly with the Association, PCU and IRIC a Midterm review of the progress made in carrying 
out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).  The Borrower shall invite the 
Private Sector Entities to attend this Midterm Review.
(a)
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; 
(ii)
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project; and
(iii)
overall Project performance against Project performance indicators.
(b) 
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to 
the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation of each component of 
the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare 
an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
