Report No. PID7728
PID7728.TXT
Project Name                     Tanzania-Public Service Reform Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       TZPE60833
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Tanzania
Implementing agency              Mr. Joseph Rugumyamheto,
Permanent Secretary
Civil Service Department
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Tel:     (255+51) 130122
Fax:     (255+51) 113084
Date this PID prepared           May 14, 1999
Projected appraisal date         June 1999
Projected Board date             October 1999
Country and sector background
Soon after independence, Tanzania adopted a socialist development strategy.
By the late 1980s, after a decade of economic decline and pervasive
deterioration in public services, it was clear that the strategy had failed.
By then also, the public expenditure framework had expanded far beyond what
the Government could afford. Public administration had become characterized
by underfunding and overstaffing. Civil servants were increasingly
demotivated because, among other reasons, there was a downward spiral in
their real incomes and political interference in appointments and pay
decisions. Serious distortions and inequities in promotions and compensation
took hold. Consequently, discipline, ethical standards and productivity
deteriorated. Further, establishment and payroll controls fell into disuse.
The public service wage bill was largely out of control, which significantly
contributed to fiscal instability and deficits. In response to that
situation, in 1991 the Government launched a Civil Service Reform Program
(CSRP) but actual implementation only started in 1993. The overall objective
of the program was to achieve a "smaller, affordable, well compensated,
efficient and effectively performing civil service". Despite the impressive
achievements in terms of structural and institutional reforms, there is still
much to be done to translate these results into improved service delivery to
the people of Tanzania.
Against this background, the Government opted for a more comprehensive
program with a longer-term perspective, the Public Service Reform Program
(PSRP). The PSRP aims at transforming the public service into a service that
has the capacity, systems and culture for client-orientation and continuous
improvement of services. This will require more than a decade of sustained
reform efforts. Therefore, the program will be implemented in three phases.
. Phase 1 of the program (2000-2004) will: (i) complete and sustain the
comprehensive structural and institutional reforms implemented with
considerable success in recent years; and (ii) launch a strategic process for



progressively transforming the role, capacity and performance of the public
service on a sustainable basis. Phase 2 (2005-2008) will institute a
performance management culture in the public service. Phase 3 (2009-2011)
will bring about quality improvement practices.
Project objectives
The program development objective over these twelve years is to enable the
public service to deliver efficiently and effectively the Government's
economic and social programs on a continuous and sustainable basis. In the
medium-term (Phase 1), this development objective will be underpinned by the
policy shift to institutional pluralism (decentralization, executive
agencies, private sector participation) in service delivery and the strategic
theme to deliver quality public services under severe budgetary constraints.
The Government envisages that the PSRP will deepen the institutional reforms
started under the nearly completed CSRP. It is also planned that the PSRP
will support improvements in public services by facilitating public service
managers to harness the opportunities arising from the decentralization and
institutional pluralism developments. The program will support the MDAs
through a strategic process that will: (i) engage participants, including
ministries and departments, in structural changes; and (ii) reinforce the
changes in structure to redefined roles within that management process.
Project description
The PSRP will support the consolidation of the on-going cost-containment and
institutional reforms initiated under CSRP. The CSRP had a fairly
comprehensive program covering the following components:
Restructuring and private sector participation;
Executive Agencies Development;
Management Information System; and
Leadership, Management Development and Governance.
The PSRP will retain these initiatives but shift the focus to: (i)
institutionalizing a strategic process to sustain these structural reforms;
and (ii) achieving capacity improvement in the quality of public services.
To this end, the Phase 1 of the PSRP (the Project--2000-2004) will add two
components to the components initiated under CSRP: (i) Performance
Improvement; and (ii) Programs Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Project financing
Component                                Indicative Costs (US$ M)
Performance Improvement                  20.0
Restructuring and Private Sector
Participation                            5.0
Policy Coordination, Monitoring
and Evaluation                           5.0
Leadership, Management and
Governance                               10.0
Total                                    40.0
Project implementation
-2-



The timeframe for implementation of the first phase is 2000-2004. The
following implementation arrangements will be in place;
Committee of All Permanent Secretaries to steer program implementation: The
overall institutional coordinating mechanism for the public service reform,
local government reform, as well as reforms in key sectors, will be the
responsibility of the existing Committee of all Permanent Secretaries (Inter-
Ministerial Technical Coordination--IMTC) chaired by the Chief Secretary to the
President/Secretary to the Cabinet/Head of Public Service.
Inter-Ministerial Working Group to facilitate technical coordination with other
programs: An Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IWG) chaired by the Permanent
Secretary (PS), CSD will be established to ensure technical coordination of all
key public sector reform programs. Membership of the IWG will include the
Deputy Permanent Secretaries in the central ministries, the Director of Policy
(CSD), the Accountant-General, and the Commissioner for Local Government.
Primary Implementation Responsibility and Accountability vested in Ministries,
Departments and Agencies (MDAs): The program design places the primary
responsibility for reform implementation with the leadership and management of
the individual MDA. This is a departure from the CSRP where an enclave reform
secretariat had been established. The strategic and technical leadership role
and functions of that reform secretariat have since been mainstreamed into the
Civil Service Department, Office of the President, while implementation has
been transferred to the management of the MDAs. Accordingly, the Permanent
Secretaries and chief executives of other MDAs will each be required to
specify, promulgate and manage public service reform goals and implementation
in their respective organizations. The PS CSD will be directly responsible for
implementation of all systemic reform measures. In addition, while the central
ministries, and particularly CSD, will provide technical leadership and
coordination, every chief executive will be held individually accountable for
progress in reform implementation in his/her organization. A Presidential
Management Information System (PREMIS) will inform Ministers, the Chief
Secretary and the President on the progress in reform implementation. In this
regard, a high priority activity will be training top public service managers
in change management.
Through such instruments as service delivery surveys, the Program Coordination,
Monitoring and Evaluation Component (managed by CSD) and the IWG will identify
necessary public services improvements and progress achieved. The findings
will be reported to the leadership of the public service (the Chief Secretary,
the IMTC and the President). At the same time, political leadership in
ministries will be sensitized to their roles under a new performance management
system that stipulates annual performance agreements between the Chief
Secretary and their respective Permanent Secretaries.
Project sustainability
Weak macroeconomic performance and fiscal deficits over extended periods have
underpinned the initiative and drive for public service reform in most
countries, including Tanzania. Bloated, weak and poorly performing public
services have been major issues in economies plagued by fiscal deficits and
negative or low growth. The fiscal deficit has significantly undermined the
incentives system, capacity and performance of the public service in these
countries. When the fiscal situation improves, there is danger to lose focus
-3 -



on the purpose and goals of public service reform. There is a high risk that
the reform implementation effort will slow down, and gains made could be
reversed. In this context, critical factors for the sustainability of the
Tanzania PSRP include:
Maintaining Government commitment to an affordable public expenditure
framework;
Expanding and sustaining private sector participation in delivering basic
social services; and
Fostering broad-based support for the reform agenda.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The development of the program strategy has drawn heavily on the lessons of
experience with the implementation of the nearly completed Civil Service
Reform Program (CSRP) including:
Political sponsorship and commitment to the reform was narrow and not
sufficiently overt;
Little sense of ownership and commitment to reforms in MDAs;
Reform program goals and strategies were either little known, or perceived by
key stakeholders, including political leaders, public servants and opinion
leaders, to be negative and/or as having remote consequences;
Limited capacity for change management in MDAs;
No clear incentives for the institutions and individuals achieving reform
objectives;
Weak monitoring and evaluation of program implementation, outputs and
outcomes;
Weak coordination with sector development reforms; and
Resources for program implementation not readily available, resulting in
disruption in the implementation process.
Project Benefits
The PSRP seeks to improve the performance of the Government in service to all
citizenry, communities and the private sector. It will benefit all society by
improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public services. The
project will also benefit private sector operators by improving the policy and
regulatory environment, and ensuring efficient use of public resources in
promoting and delivering essential social services, including economic
infrastructure. Furthermore, the program will ensure that taxpayers receive
from the Government value for money, through strategic, transparent and
accountable use of resources by public service managers. In addition, the
project will promote integrity in the public service. It will also benefit
public servants by enhancing their pay to correspond to their competence and
performance, promoting meritocracy and fairness in public service appointments,
improving their work environment and promoting their public image.
Environmental Assessment Category Rating: C
The information contained in this PID is based on the findings of the IDA
team which pre-appraised this project in November 1998.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
-4-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Team Leader, Denyse Morin (AFTI2)
(202) 473-9732
- 5 -



