Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19216-TA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.9 MILLION
(US$41.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FORA
PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FRST PHASE OF THE
PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM PROGRAM
October 30, 1999
Capacity Building Unit
Country Department 4
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = TSH
TSH = US$.00130
US$1 = TSH775
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFDB      African Development Bank                       MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Frame,work
APL       Adaptable Program Lending                      NGOs    Non-Governmental Organ:ization;
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                    NORAD  Norwegian Agency for Internatioral
CIDA      Canadian Intemational Development Agency                Development
CSD       Civil Service Department                       OCAG    Office of the Controller and Auditor-
CSRP      Civil Service Reform Program                            General
DANIDA  Danish Iiternational Development Association     PAD       Project Appraisal Document
DFID      Departnent for International Development (UTK)  PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
DLC       Distance Leaming Center                        PER       Public Expenditure Revievw
EAs       Executive Agencies                             PFP       Policy Framework Paper
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility        PHRD    Policy and Human Resources De,, elopment
EU        European Union                                          Fund (Japan)
FINNIDA  Finnish International Development Agency        PIF       Performance Improvement: Fund
GADP    Government Accounting Development Project        PIM      Performance Improvement Model
GDLN      Global Distance Learning Network               PMO       Prime Minister's Office
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                         PMR      Project Management Report
GOT       Government of Tanzania                         PMU      Performance Management Unit
FHPC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries                 PPF       Project Preparation Facility
IDA       International Development Association          PPRP      Parastatal and Public Sector Reformt IProject
IEC       Information, Education and Communication       PREMIS  Presidential Management Information. System
IFM       Institute of Finance Management                PSC       Public Service Commission
IMF       International Monetary Fund                    PSRP      Public Service Reform Program
IMTC      Inter-Ministerial Technical Coordination       SAC       Structural Adjustment Creclit
IT        Information Technology                         SAL       Structurl Adjustment Loan
IWG       Inter-Ministerial Working Group                SDC       Swiss Development Cooperation
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative          SDP       Sector Development Program
LCC       Local Cost Compensation                        SIDA      Swedish Intemational Development, igmcy
LGRP      Local Government Reform Program                SPA       Special Program for Africa
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation                      UNDP    United Nations Development Program
MDAs    Ministries, Departnents and Agencies             USAID   United States Agency for Internati. onal
MIS       Management Information System                            Development
MOF       Ministry of Finance                            WBI      World Bank Institute
WHO      World Health Organization
Vice President    Callisto Madavo
Country Director    James W. Adams
Sector Manager     Brian D. Levy
Team Leader      Denyse E. Morin



Tanzania
Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
CONTENTS
A:  Program   Purpose and Project Development Objective ........................................................3
1. Program  purpose and program  phasing ..................................................................               3
2. Program  development objective ...... ..................................3.........................3
3. Key perfonnance indicators ..................................................................3
B: Strategic Context ..................................................................A.
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ................................................................. 6.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................9
4. Performance triggers for subsequent credits ................................................................. 12
C:  Project Description Summary .................................................................                                   13
1. Project components ................................................................. 13.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................... 14
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                      15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .... ....................................................... 15
D:  Project Rationale .................................................................                                             2i.0
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............ ...................................... 24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................ 25
E:  Summary Project Analysis .................................................................                                      25
1.- Economic ...... ...........................................................                                          25
2. Financial .................................................................                                           25
3. Technical ................................................................. 26
4. Institutional .................................................................. 26
5. Social .................................................................                                              27
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                          28
7. Participatory approach .................................................................                              28
F:  Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                      28
1. Sustainability .................................................................                                      28
2. Critical risks ................................................................. 3.0
3. Possible controversial aspects .................................................................                      32



G: Main Loan Conditions ........................                                     32
1. Effectiveness conditions ........................ 32
2. Other ........................                                             3.2
H: Readiness for Implementation ........................                             32
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                            32
Annexes
Annex 1          Project Design Summary
Annex 2          Detailed Program Description
Annex 3          Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4          Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5A         Financial Summary (Part A)
Annex 5B         Financial Summary (Part B)
Annex 5C         Financial Management for Part A
Annex 6          Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table Al         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Part A)
Table A2         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Part B)
Table A3         Consultant Selection Arrangements (Part A)
Table B          Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (Part A)
Table C          Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7          Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8          Other Documents in the Project File
Annex 9          Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10         Country at a Glance
Annex 11         Letter of Development Program from Govemment of Tanzania
Annex 12         Decentralization & Institutional Pluralism in Tanzania
Annex 13         Performance Improvement Process and Budgeting Mechanism
Annex 14         Fiscal Framework for Pay Reform and Feasibility of Program Implementatici:
Map IBRD 27941



Tanzania
Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC04
Date: October 30, 1999                              Team Leader: Denyse Morin
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams            Sector Manager/Director: Brian D. Levy
Project ID: TZ-PE-60833                             Sector: BA - Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: APL                             Theme(s): Public Sector Reform, Service Inprovement,
Performance Management
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
IDA              GOT    Donors   Total   Commitment    Closing
_ ~~~US$ m           %/  US $m   US $ m   US$ m             Date          Date
PSRP I/DLC       41.2      45%    12.5      37.2       91.0      2000          2004         Govt. of
Credit                                                                                   Tanzania
PSRP II          33.6      48%     17.5      18.9      70.0      2005          2008         Govt. of
Credit                                                                                   Tanzania
PSRP III         19.2      48%     10.0      10.8      40.0      2009          2011         Govt. of
Credit                                          ___Tanzania
Total    94.0      47%    40.0      66.9      201.0
Project Financing Data
I I Loan    [XI Credit    [] Grant          [I Guarantee [ Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 41.2 million (phase 1)
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined     [X] Multicurrency  [I  Single currency
[] Standard      [XI Fixed           []    LIBOR-based
Variable
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:                0.5%
Service charge:                0.75%
Government of Tanzania                                    12.5          -               12.5
IDA                                                       19.0        22.2              41.2
Donors                                                    26.5         10.7             37.2
Total:                                                    58.0        32.9              91.0
OCS APL PAD Form: October 15, 1998



Page 2
Borrower: Government of Tanzania
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance, President's Office, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/USSM):
FYOO            FY01             FY02             FY03            FY04
Annual                 6.5             9.5              13.2             6.1              6.0
Cumulative             6.5             16.0            29.2             35.3             41.2
Project implementation period: 2000-2004 (5 calendar years)
Expected effectiveness date: 2000          Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agency: Civil Service Department
Contact person: Joseph Rugumyamheto, Permanent Secretary, Civil Service Departnent
Address: Kivukoni Front, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Tel: 255-51-130122      Fax: 255-51-113084            E-mail: ps-csd@intafrica.com



Page 3
A: Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing: (see Annex 1)
The overall purpose of the Public Service Refonn Program (PSRP) is to support the attainment of a high
rate of economic growth and ensure that delivery of quality public services within priority sectors
conforms to public expectations for value, satisfaction, and relevance by end 2011. The aims of the
program reflect the Government's vision of the future public service as stated in the National Vision 2025.
The Public Service will be an institution of excellence playing a pivotal role in achieving sustained
economic growth and prosperity. and eradication of poverty in the 21St century.
The Adaptable Program Lending (APL) is most appropriate for the sequenced, programmatic and long-
term implementation strategy that the Government has adopted. Phase 1 of the program (2000-2004) will:
(i) complete and sustain the comprehensive structural and institutional reforms implemented with
considerable success in recent years; and (ii) launch a strategic process for progressively transforming the
role, capacity and performance of the public service on a sustainable basis. Phase 2 (2005-2008) will
institute a performance management culture in the public service. Phase 3 (2009-2011) will bring about
quality improvement practices.
2. Program development objective: (see Annex 1)
Part A (Public Service Reform Program). The program development objective is to improve
accountability, transparency and resource management for service delivery. The public service will deliver
efficiently and effectively the Government's economic and social programs on a continuous and
sustainable basis. In the medium-term (Phase 1), this development objective will be underpinned by the
policy shift to institutional pluralism in service delivery and the strategic theme to deliver quality public
services under severe budgetary constraints.
Part B (Distance Learning Center). The main objective of the Global Distance Learning Network
(GDLN) component is to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a distance leaming center (DLC) as
part of a global knowledge-sharing network to strengthen the capacity of public and private decision-
makers and implementers to design, plan and manage economic and social development policies. This
component is an integral part of the public service reform program since one of its primary aims is to help
strengthen performance capacity of government officials and private sector managers.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators of progress towards the program goal will include the following:
*  the Performance hnprovement Model (PIM) successfully piloted in central government key social
sector Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Success will be reflected in terms of measurable
improvements in the MDAs' redefined roles, decentralized functions and enhanced private sector
participation. These will translate into improved quality of services. On the basis of such outcomes, the
MDAs will also receive a predictable (budget-based) flow of funds in key sectors.
*  the "quick win1" service improvement program initiated under the past phase of the program will be
completed.
*  improvements in real wage levels for professional, technical and managerial staff towards levels
consistent with incentives for performance and enabling the public service to hire and retain adequate
numbers of staff in areas of critical skills, especially in policy and regulatory functions.
"'Quick wins" are identified as reform measures that MDAs can effect to improve quality or to deliver services
efficiently with zero or minimal requirement of new teclmical or financial resources.



Page 4
* demonstrated improvement towards reinstating mentocracy in the public service, i.e., appointments and
promotions to the public service carried out on a transparent and competitive basis.
* progress in building institutions for safeguarding and sustaining meritocratic practices, as specifically
reflected in a legal framework, and a new, independent Public Service Cormmission.
*  progress in building sustainable capacity for bothk change management as well as service improvements.
To this end planning and policy units in MDAs will be properly equipped and staffed with competent
policy analysts and in-service training programs will be readily accessible to public servants.
* for Part B, sustainability of the DLC measured by demnand for and utilization of the center's services
and ability to cover operating expenses through fees.
Specific perfomiance indicators that will trigger transition to successive phases of the programn are tabulated in
Section B. 4. Indicators for the outputs and outcomes for Phase I components are in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Docunmentnumber: 16554-TA                   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 20, 1997
The CAS's primry development objective is broad-based economic growth with poverty reduction by about 5
percent by 2000. To realize this development objective, it is planned to (i) improve and stabilize: fiscal
performance; (ii) strengthen the base for economic growth by giving a high priority to the rural seetor and
facilitating private sector investments; (iii) improve environment management; (iv) liberalize prices and
marketing; (v) imnprove market integration and access to productive assets and services; (vi) improve the
efficiency of social services and target vulnerable groups; (vii) improve expenditure efficiency; (viii) eliminate
redundancies and build capacity; (ix) enhance perfornance of regulatory functions;  and (x) eliminate
opportunities for rent-seeking and enforce accountability. The PSRP will directly support a number of these
objectives by systematically introducing a strategic process that focuses public service managers on: (i) more
efficient use of limited public resources through selected decentralization options and enhanced private sector
participation in service delivery; and ii) sustainable improvements in capacity and overall perfonnance.
The GOT's objective is to "restart progress in poverty reduction by raising growth performance and e:.tending
access to basic social and economic services'2. The World Bank and other donors are supporting this o 1jective
mainly through sector development programs (SDPs) and other programs aiming at improving the perfo:fnance
of the MDAs. From a systems perspective, the PSRP's interventions are critical to effective implementation of
the development processes initiated under various SDPs. While the SDPs will mainly provide physicaL, :nterial
and sector-specific inputs for the development processes that improve the supply quality and access to basic
social services, the PSRP, together with the other main institutional reform programs (Public  inmancial
Management Reform Program and Local Govermment Reform Program), will provide the "systemic inputs
(systems, policies, rules and regulations, and others) to the development processes (see Figure 1 overleaif l.
2 World Bank "Memorandum of the President of the Intenational Development Association on a Country
Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the United Republic of Tanzania", (May 6, 1997), p. 10.



Page 5
Figure 1: Total System Perspective of PSRP and SDPs Nexus
PSRP/Systemic Inputs         SDPs Inputs
Institutional Infrastructure    - Physical Infrastructure
*  Policy Management       - Human Resources
*  Management Systems      - Materials
*  Decentralization      = +
*  Others                  - Others
Development Processes
Monitoring
|          ServicesDl Evaluation
Services Delivered



Page 6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background to Sector Issues. Soon after independence, Tanzania adopted a socialist development
strategy. By the late 1980s, after a decade of economic decline and pervasive deterioration in public
services, it was clear that the strategy had failed. By then also, the public expenditure framework had
expanded far beyond what the Government could afford.  The public administration had become
characterized by underfunding and overstaffing. Civil servants were increasingly demotivated b,. cause,
among other reasons, there was a downward spiral in their real incomes and political interference in
appointments and pay decisions. Serious distortions and inequities in promotions and compensation took
hold. Consequently, discipline, ethical standards and productivity deteriorated. Further, establishment
and payroll controls fell into disuse. The public service wage bill was largely out of control, which
significantly contributed to fiscal instability and deficits.
Implications of Decentralization and Institutional Pluralism 3. The Government is launching the next, phase
of its reform program (PSRP) against the backdrop of on-going decentralization and institutional pluralism to
improve the delivery of services. In that context, the design of the PSRP strategy takes into accoumn three
key institutional changes launched under the Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP):
*  Redefined role of the State;
• New programs for decentralization to local authorities and executive agencies; and
•  Promotion and facilitation of private sector participation in the delivery of social services.
Redefined Role of the State: This process was started with the ministerial organization and efficiency
(O&E) reviews under the CSRP. The Government adopted the policy that, if possible and cost-effective,
the roles of the Ministries and central departments would be confined to policy and regulatory functions,
and the delivery of essential social services. Significant progress has been made in this area. However, a
more critical and in-depth rationalization of the ministerial functions continues to be necessary since the
public expenditure framework remains too broad to be affordable.
Decentralization: In a phased program, and in accordance with the GOT's new decentralization pc licy,
operational responsibilities for service delivery of many public services will be shifted from cl ntral
Ministries to district and urban councils. A system of inter-govemmental financial transfers will be put in
place. Ministries will retain control for policy, regulatory and strategic functions. In certain cases,
however, they might also continue to provide some services. The end result will be institutional plurilism
in the delivery of services which until now was the exclusive domain of Ministries.
Promoting and Facilitating Private Sector Participation: Following the ideological shift from socialism, the
GOT' has, in the 1990s, adopted a private sector-led economic development strategy. The Governmerrt- also
recognized the potential role of the private sector in the provision of social goods and services. Thernfore,
under the CSRP, measures were initiated to facilitate ernhanced private sector participation in these areas.
The CSRP also launched programs to inform  and educate public servants, especially those in areas
affecting private business investments and operations, to play a positive and facilitating role in their Alimnt
relations. The program also laid out plans to solicit private sector support in the delivery of operarional
services through contracting-out and similar arrangements. More significantly, through the C Rl"s
organizational and efficiency reviews, sector Ministries and departments are encouraged to :.oster
partnerships with the NGOs, communities and private sector to expand supply, and enhance accc -s to
social services. Despite being relatively small, the private sector is already responding significantly t:) ihe
' Institutional pluralism refers to local authorities, executive agencies and provision of services by the private se A.tor.
Private sector broadly defrned includes NGOs and communities.



Page 7
opportunities arising in sectors such as education and health. This development will gain momentum as
Tanzania's economic growth takes off to higher levels, as expected in the medium-term.
The Civil Service Reform Program -- CSRP (1991-1999). In response to that situation, in 1991 the
Government launched the CSRP with a series of studies financed by UNDP. However, implementation
did not start until 1993 when the Bank provided support through the now-ending Parastatal and Public
Sector Reform Project (IDA Cr. 2507). Other donors are also supporting the CSRP mainly, DFID, SIDA,
NORAD, FINNIDA, DANIDA, USAID, EU, UNDP, Switzerland and the Netherlands. Some of these
donors will also support the next phase of the reforms, the PSRP.
The overall objective of the CSRP was to achieve a "smaller, affordable, well compensated, efficient and
effectively performing civil service". The program has so far been implemented in two phases: (i)
restoration of the structural preconditions to support fiscal stabilization measures, including: the removal
of ghost workers, staff retrenchment, rationalization of the pay and grading system, and reinstatement of
establishment and payroll controls expected to bring employment and the wage bill under control; and
(ii) institutional improvements, including: a redefinition of the role of govemment, restructuring for
organizational effectiveness and efficiency, outsourcing certain services, decentralization of service
delivery, and managerial capacity building.
Specific achievements of the CSRP include:
•  The role of the Government has been redefined. The GOT has progressively withdrawn from
direct production of economic goods and services.
* The total number of public service employees has reduced by approximately 27% from about
355,000 in 1992 to approximately 260,000 today. This is a net reduction after selective
additional recruitment into the key sectors of education, health and law and order.
*  Effective controls on employment and the wage bill have been institutionalized.  All
recruitment and entries into the payroll are controlled. A reliable central personnel database has
been established and a computerized payroll system (funded by DFID) will be operational by
December 1999. Distortions in the compensation system were solved by combining all ad-hoc
and non-transparent allowances into a consolidated basic salary, and by rationalizing salary
scales and grades.
• The civil service salary structure has been decompressed, from a ratio of about 9 to I in 1992 to
about 21 to 1 today. Future changes in pay will be guided by targets specified in a new Public
Service Pay Policy that emphasizes for the medium-term a clear enhancement of pay for
technical and professional staff.
* Programs for devolving non-core and executive functions to autonomous agencies, local
authorities, communities, NGOs and the private sector are in place. A program to implement
systematically decentralization to autonomous executive agencies is being funded by DFID.
* Programs to improve the leadership, management and governance qualities of the public service
are being implemented, including training in key areas of leadership and management
development. A code of ethics and conduct for public servants has been promulgated. In
collaboration with USAID, the training of public servants to adopt a more facilitating approach
to private sector operators is underway (Investors Road Map). Gender issues are being
mainstreamed into public service management with SIDA's support.
*  A comprehensive decentralization and local government reform program (LGRP) has been
launched. The first phase of the program involving the restructuring of regional administrations
has been completed. The establishments in each of the 20 regional administrations units were
reduced from an average of about 700 to 83. This program aims at making public services
more responsive, as well as increasing citizen participation in decision-making. It is also



Page 8
anticipated that the LGRP will facilitate rationalization of recruitment and cormpensation of
employees between central government and local authorities, resulting in reduced pressure on
the public wage bill. The LGRP is strongly supported by IrishAID, DANIDA, FINNIDA,
Netherlands, NORAD, SIDA, DFID, EU and UNDP.
The CSRP enjoys strong support of both top political leadership and senior management of the civil
service. Nevertheless, in active search of sustainable and better results, an in-depth, broad-based and
critical assessment of the program has been carried out over the past year, beginning with a National
Symposium on Civil Service Reforms organized by the University of Dar Es Salaam at GOT"s reqi..est. It
was followed by a series of inter-ministerial reviews, planning and consultative fora. The reviews,
complemented by a logical framework process, concluded that:
*  Despite the impressive achievements in structural and institutional reforms, much ne.eds to
be done to translate these results into improved service delivery to the people of Tanzaria.
•  The program strategy had to contend with the remaining issues:
(a) the vision and goals of the reform program remote to public interest;
(b) unaffordable levels of public expectations;
(c) limited overt public support for the reforms in the past;
(d) weak local ownership of reform goals and inadequate implementation responsibilities
in MDAs;
(e) significant levels of capacity deficiency in both technical functions and change
management;
(f) capacity and performance undermined to a certain extent by low pay of public servants:
(g) ineffective coordination of all major reform initiatives; and
(h) weak monitoring and evaluation for outputs, outcomes and impact.
a  In terms of impact, it was imperative to steer the future program towards consolidati-ag the
gains made under the CSRP. This meant that the next phase of the reforms would support
the effort of MDAs to adapt to an evolving pluralistic environment for the delivery of
public services (see Annex 12).
The Public Service Reform Program - PSRP (2000-2011). Against this background, the Goverrnment
opted for a more comprehensive program with a longer-term perspective, the PSRP. The program aims at
transforming the public service into a service that has the capacity, systems and culture for Al.ent
orientation and continuous improvement of services. This will require more than a decade of sus .ai:ed
reform efforts. Therefore, the program will be implemented in three phases (see Annex 2: The
Government envisages that the PSRP will deepen the institutional reforms started under the CSRP. It i  also
planned that the PSRP will support improvements in public services by facilitating public service manal er; to
hamess the opportunities arising from the decentralization and institutional pluralism developments The
program will support the MDAs through a strategic process that will: (i) engage participants in stn:. tuiml
changes; and (ii) reinforce the changes in structure to redefined roles within that management process. This
strategic process will be installed through a model (Perforrnance Improvement Model--PIM) developed h:y the
Tanzanians. Key features of the PIM include: strategic planning; annual performance plannin,i. and
budgeting; systematic execution of plans and budget with focus on services improvenments; and
monitoring, evaluation and reporting. Thesefeatures are illustrated in Figure 2 overleaf and in Annex 13



Page 9
Fgure 2: Taania's Perforsmnce Imprvement Model
ANNUAL PLAN    G
S1TRATEGIC PLANNING                                        & ' Srkstvroen    PERFORMANCE!
-- --------~   -1*ecnolzUn&nat                              BUDGETI!
N1&4on                    SxctorPNrldpaftPloPaw5 \     ,.hprlnsinrQtgur 
V"rsion  Md.ElliclencyEbpovenlents  \   ndDontrasimat of 
Mitionatl md Sectoral .~ 94W  . advdnPin'          j      Icneerre
GolsbandPriorities                                          a !
S- aff------- ---------l Apr \sl   Bawhrposas   /lorosupport
NldiumTernt                                                 ------  ---------dgt .       _ ___ ......   __ 
; Expendtit re kandmwork     wh   th  p   f         o  d                a   intiuioa
t   . .   \,      a  r  >  8                ~~~~~EVALUATIONS OF -
MONITORm        c  it        str   l    a    e 
EVALUATIONAe ;                                               Renewdand
o   REPORTING o                                            entporsemerr of ptahn
Revi'ewss                                           ,     ,,ug,, ,,
Repeat aient Surveys !       EXECEMONPLAM                 \
3..Sectorssuestob   addressed by the progra Deploy restratesg omcPoFi
.Staff Perfomali Appraisa-s          appropriationrs
podlvyoT  . e at   actond atckstatusand  fr
Governm t  dconl reores.T    re
eing the strategic plmoing phase ofthe Phi, a MDAw  ill be challenged to:
a   Redefine its role and mission within the policy framework of decentmlization and institutional
pluralism;
r  Define the mechanisms by which it will strategically lead the other players in improving services
delivery, and
*  Set key result areas for performance that will be monitored through participatory approaches (service
delivery surveys, benchmarldng and others) during implementation as part of the triggers to move
from the first phase ofthe program to the next.
3. Sector issues to be addressed  by  the  program and strategic choices:
The main issues on which the program will focus are: (i) weak capacity of the public service; and (ii) the
poor delivery of public services. The CSRP evaluation and a strategic assessment for the future concl-uded
that the PSRP had to address these specific problems. The CSRP's focus was on containing the cost of
Government and introducing complementary institational reforms. The reforms in these two areas are not
yet completed. TIherefore, one strategic choice was whether to continue with the current program (CSRP)
and postpone the launch of performa-nce improvement reforms after the cost-contaimnment and i-nstitutional
reforms have been taken to their logical conclusion. This option was abandoned for two reasons: (i) to
sustain and advance on the results gained in the CSRP, there was a need to adopt a more strategic
approach to cost-containment and institutional reforms; and (ii) there was public and political demand that
the reform yield not just pain but actual improvements in the quality of public services. Instead it was
decided to adopt a hybrid strategy, whereby improved services and capacity would be realized in a



Page IQ
framework for sustaining the structural and institutional reforms. This framework is reflected in the
Tanzania strategic model for performance improvement -- PIM.
The need for a more comprehensive approach for effective and sustainable capacity buildirig was
recognized. Capacity building requires a number of systemic and institutional changes to improve basic
competencies, incentives and work environment of the public servants. Such changes were launched
through the CSRP, including training of public service managers; enhancing, decompressinlg and
rationalizing compensation; reinstating merit criteria for appointments; introducing a code of ethics and
conduct; and addressing gender issues. The other important part of capacity building requires thai; public
servants, especially the managers, are both enabled and held accountable for specified outpuits and
outcomes. This aspect is considered to be crucial to sustainabilitv. Phase 1 of the PSRP will introduce in a
phased and systematic manner such a management environment through the Performance Improvement
Component. Subsequent phases of the program will institutionalize these processes and transformn the
public service into a result-oriented management and continuous quality improvement culture (see Figure
3 overleaf). Pay is a critical issue to be tackled by the PSRP if capacity is to be addressed on a sustainable
basis. The direction taken by the GOT on pay reforn is detailed in Annex 14.
Several steps are being taken to empower public service managers: (i) functions are being decentra..ized in
line with the approved Public Service Managemenit and Employment Policy. Presently, the Civil Service
Department (CSD) will transfer personnel management to the MDAs; (ii) the "common cadre" approach,
i.e., economists reporting to the Planning Commission, accountants under the management of the
Accountant General, and others, is being abolished; (iii) the Directorate of Personnel in CSD has also been
eliminated; and, with a view to increasing accountability, the Office of the Controller and Auditor General
(OCAG) will likely become an executive agency. Through the PSRP (decentralization of authority) and
the public finance reform (performance budgeting), line managers will enjoy greater autonomy.
Decentralization of public service delivery emanating from the redefinition of the role of Government and
Ministries under the CSRP has resulted in institutional pluralism in the delivery of these services This
development has been given impetus by the promulgation of the policy for local government reform and
the launch of its implementation. In developing the strategy for the PSRP, a conscious choice i; being
made to seize these opportunities for improving public service delivery.



Page 1 1
Figure 3: Long-Term Perspective of Public Service Reform in Tanzania:
Phases of the Program
QUALITY
IMPROVEMENT
CYCLES
(5)
PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT
CULTURE
l__ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (4 )
PERFORMANCE
MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS
(3)
STRUCTURAL
REFORMS
(INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT)
(2)
STRUCTURAL
REFORMS (COST
CONTAINMENT)
(1)
~.1993   ~ .2000              2004      2008 .. 2011



Page 12
4. Performance triggers for subsequent credits:
The perfornance triggers for the successive phases of the program are presented below.
End of Phase 1: Transition to Phase 2        End of Phase 2: Transition to Phase 3
1. Seventy-five percent of MDAs will have    1. PIM effectively operational in all MDAs
developed a strategic plan and fifty percent will    MDAs to be regularly disseminating ser, ice
show results in line with the agreed         standards through social pacts, service delivery
performance targets. Results will be linked to  surveys and other instruments. Monitoring and
improved service delivery that will be known  evaluating outcomes and impact of service
by the population, and proper mechanisms will    improvements will have been institutionalized.
be in place to deal with the population's
feedback on the services.
2. In the ten Ministries initially targeted for  2. Balance between personnel and O&M
strategic planning and performance budgeting,  expenditures reflected in MDAs' performance
PSs will have been working for the last two  budgets.
years in keeping with performance agreements
linked to results to be achieved.
3. All MDAs will have in place a quick win that   3. Planning and policy units in MDAs properly
will demonstrate improvement in service      equipped and staffed with competent policy
delivery with the same or fewer budgetary    analysts.
inputs.
4. The real wages of professional and technical    4. In-service training programs readily accessible
staff, adjusted for variations in the expected  to public servants.
GDP growth and revenue collection, will show
significant increase as per the medium-term pay
policy targets.
5. All the last year's new appointments will have  5. Public service in position to recruit and retain
been made by the Public Service Commission   critical skills, especially in policy and
consistent with the new legislation establishing  regulatory functions.
its independence.
Should the triggers for Phase 1 not be met, the Bank would envisage reassessing the results achiev .d and
working with Government to examine how the program would need to be adjusted to reach the original
project objectives or to identify relevant objectives that would be more adapted to the emerging situation.
A joint (CSD and donors supporting the PSRP) review of the PIM will be carried out at the e,nd of tlie first
24 months of implementation and a mid term review of the PSRP will take place after three yeal s. The
overall objective will be to examine the status of the implementation of the PSRP, to come to agrnement
on modifications, review financing implications anid agree on the next phase of implementation.



Page 13
C: Project Description Summary
1. Phase 1 Program Components: (see Annexes 1 and 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for
estimated cost).
The PSRP will support the consolidation of the on-going cost-containment and institutional reforms
initiated under CSRP. The CSRP had a fairly comprehensive program covering the following
components:
*  Restructuring and Private Sector Participation.
*  Executive Agencies Program.
*  Management Information System.
*  Leadership. Management and Governance.
The PSRP will retain these components but will shift the focus to: (i) institutionalizing a strategic process
to sustain these structural reforms; and (ii) achieving capacity improvement in the quality of public
services. To this end, the Phase 1 of the PSRP (2000-2004) will add two components to the ones initiated
under CSRP: (i) Performance Improvement; and (ii) Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Performance Improvement.  This component has been designed to initiate a long-term process of
sustainable capacity building and the transformation of the public service to result-oriented management.
The component will introduce a simple and feasible management process--the PIM. It focuses public
service managers on utilizing strategically the limited public resources towards service improvements in
line with the Government's overall policy and public expenditure priorities. These strategic plans will be
consistent with sector development strategies, Govemment policy objectives and strategies in the on-
going local government reform and the public financial management reform. The strategic plans will also
reflect broad consultations with clients and stakeholders. Demonstrated commitment and achievement to
improve services will facilitate aMDA's access to other budgetary incentives. Within this framework, the
PSRP will support processes to (i) clarify the role of the MDA; (ii) strengthen capacity in key areas
identified during the strategic process; and (iii) define appropriate institutional incentives for performance.
Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation. CSRP management monitored inputs and outputs
well. A comprehensive quarterly progress report was prepared and distributed to all key stakeholders on a
timely basis since 1995. Under PSRP, it is planned that monitoring and evaluation (M&E) will cover
outcomes and impact assessment in terms of changes in quality of and access to public services,
responding to public expectations for value, satisfaction and relevance of services. In this framework, the
implementation of the MDAs' strategic and annual plans will be independently monitored and evaluated
using participatory approaches. It is also envisaged that information, education and communication
activities will involve the public more directly in decisions related to service delivery and give them a
voice to report and rate the public service's performance in delivering services. Since the outcomes and
impact of this program will be closely linked to the effective implementation of the complementary
reform programs, i.e., PSRP, local government, public financial management and sector development, it is
foreseen that the PSRP's M&E activities will signal the need and opportunities for strong program
coordination.  This component will also facilitate the coordination of strategies, policies and
implementation among the programs. The GOT recognizes the need to build skills in addition to putting
in place a robust M&E system. This component is key to the success of the PSRP and will be given high
priority at the outset of Phase 1.
The subsequent two phases of the program are a logical development, following a successful completion
of Phase 1. After installing the strategic process for sustainable performance improvement, and the new
institutional framework for service delivery, the focus of Phase 2 (2005-2008) will be on instituting a



Page 14
perfonnance management culture in the public service. Once this has been achieved, then total client
orientation through continuous quality cycles (benchmarking, total quality management) will be
introduced in Phase 3 (2009-2011).
Performance Improvement              BI            33.8       3%        19. 7     22i>/o
Restructuring and Private Sector    BA             10.7       12%        3.3       40%
Participation
Executive Agencies Program          BY             11.0       12%        2.1       2%
Management Information Systems      BA              5.6        6%        3.0       3%0/
Leadership, Management &            BA/BI          16.4       19%        4.7       5%
Governance
Program Coordination, Monitoring    BA/BI          10.4       12%        6.6       8%
& Evaluation
Total (Part A)                  8.         10%       39.4       45%
Global Distance Learning Center     BI/BY           3.1      100%        1 .8     59 9,
Total (Part B)                   3.1      100%        1.8       59'M4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
During the CSRP the Government adopted the policy to withdraw from the direct production of econiomic
goods and services. It progressively reduced its direct involvement in the delivery of non-core servico. s and
facilitated a rapidly enhanced participation of private sector, NGOs, local authorities, other autonomous agencies
and communities in the production and delivery of these services. Accordingly, the roles and firictions of
Govenmment Ministries would be largely confined to policy-making, regulation, good govemance and the
provision of essential public services and infrastructure as necessary to ensure an enabling environmenat for
private sector development, economic growth, and poverty reduction. The operationalization of this podicy
underpinned the operation and efficiency (O&E) reviews undertaken in the past five years. Nonetheless, as
reflected in the Government's medium term PSRP, further reform measures in this direction are necessary.
Therefore, this project will support the implementation of such measures as decentralization, contractingli-out,
privatization and abolishing of non-core functions of Ministries. A related reform intervention to be supl: oited
by the project is the "debureaucratization" of public services under the "quick win" program initiated un1c Jr the
CSRP.
4 See Figure 3, page 13.



Page 15
Recognizing the need to develop the capacity of the public service while at the same time transfonring it into a
results-oriented management culture, Cabinet approved a Public Service Management and Employment Policy
in May 1998. This policy spells out the vision, principles, ethos and practices to guide public service reforms.
More significantly, it demands performance-orientation of every public service manager and outlines the key
features of a perfonnance management system. To that same end, a medium- to long-term Public Service Pay
Policy was approved by the Cabinet in January 1999. The policy marks a shift from the past egalitarian and
politically-oriented management of public service pay which is the main cause of compressed pay structures in
many developing countries. This policy commits GOT to rationalize and significantly enhance public service
pay, especially for technical and professional staff, as a crucial factor in ensuring sustainable key capacity in the
public service. This policy will form the basis for Government's guidelines on local cost compensation (LCC).
These guidelines will ensure that donor remuneration practices are consistent with government policy and
medium-term pay targets.
3. Benefits and target population:
The PSRP seeks to improve the performance of the Govemnment in service delivery to all citizenry, communities
and the private sector. It will benefit all society by improving the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of public
services. The project will also benefit private sector operators by improving the policy and regulatory
environment, and ensuring efficient use of public resources in promoting and delivering essential social services,
including economic infrastructure. Furthermore, the PSRP will ensure that taxpayers receive from the
Government value for money, through strategic, transparent and accountable use of resources by public service
managers. In addition, the PSRP will promote integrity in the public service. It will also benefit public servants
by enhancing their pay to correspond to their competence and perfonnance, promoting meritocracy and fairness
in public service appointments, improving their work environment and promoting their public image.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Part A:
The institutional and implementation arrangements reflect the GOT's recognition of the importance to ensure
complementarity of the public service, public finance, local government reforms and sector development
programs through regular sharing of information. Links have already been established at technical level to
ensure close working relationships among the officers involved in the reforms.
Committee of all Permanent Secretaries to steer program implementation. The overall institutional
coordinating mechanism for the public service reform, local government reform, as well as reforms in key
sectors, will be the responsibility of the existing Committee of all Permanent Secretaries (Inter-Ministerial
Technical Coordination--IMTC) chaired by the Chief Secretary to the President/Secretary to the Cabinet/Head
of Public Service. This Committee meets regularly, at least every two weeks. It clears all policy papers before
they are forwarded to Cabinet. In the region, this practice is unique to the Tanzania public service. During the
CSRP, the IMTC had a nominal role. Coordination was the responsibility of a Steering Committee constituted
of Permanent Secretaries (PS) from five central Ministries. This Committee will continue to meet as a sub-
committee of the IMTC. The change to transfer the coordination role to the full IMTC will help ensure that
Permanent Secretaries share information and are regularly challenged on reform program implementation in
their respective Ministries. It will also facilitate effective coordination of the PSRP with sector development
programs and other on-going reforms. The IMTC will meet at least once a quarter in a special session to
deliberate exclusively on implementation progress and plans in each of the major areas of reforms (particularly
public service, public financial management and local government).
Inter-Ministerial Working Group to facilitate technical coordination with other programs. An Inter-
Ministerial Working Group (IWG) chaired by the PS, CSD will provide technical coordination of all key public



Page 16
sector reform programs. Membership of the IWG will include the Deputy PSs in the central Mini stries,
the Director of Policy (CSD), the Accountant-General, ancd the Commissioner for Local Govermuent. The IWG
will meet at least once a month and its decisions and recommendations will be regularly (at least quarterly)
tabled at the IMTC meeting. The Policy Development Directorate (CSD) will give technical and administrative
support to the IWG.
Primary implementation responsibility and accountability vested in MDAs. Thle program design IlIaces
the primary responsibility for reform implementation with the leadership and management of the individual
MDA. This is a departure from the CSRP where an enclave reform secretariat had been establishedl. The
strategic and technical leadership role and functions of that secretariat have since been mainstreamed intt. CSD,
Office of the President, while implementation has been transferred to the management of the M,4DAs.
Accordingly, the Permanent Secretaries and chief executives will be required to specify, promulgate and manage
public service reform goals and implementation in their respective organizations. The PS CSD will be directly
responsible for implementation of all systemic reform measures. In addition, while the central M\/[inistries, and
particularly CSD will provide technical leadership and coordination, every chief executive will b-: held
individually accountable for progress in reform  implementation in his/her organization.  A Presidential
Management Information System (PREMIS) will inform Ministers, the Chief Secretary and the President on the
progress in reform imnplementation. In this regard, a high priority activity will be training top public sarvice
managers in change management.
Stakeholders and beneficiaries will participate in defining and assessing progress of the PSRP through such
instruments as social pacts, service delivery surveys, and benchmarking. The Program Coordination, Monitoring
and lEvaluation Component (managed by CSD) will use these instruments to identify progress achieved and
necessary public service improvements. The findings will be reported to the leadership of the public service (the
Chief Secretary, the IMTC and the President) and stakeholders and action will be taken as necessary. At the
same time, political leadership in Ministries will be sensitized to their roles under a new performance
management system that stipulates annual performance agreements between the Chief Secretary and their
respective Permanent Secretaries Measures will be taken to ensure that these agreements are acdhered to by
the incumbents.
Furthermore, the implementation of the PIM in MDAs will start with on-the-job training for s, nior
management in strategic planning for their Ministries. Another important feature of the MDAs' strategic
and annual plans will be other capacity building measures (including contract recruitment to fill key skill
gaps.
CSD as the lead change agent. To prepare CSD for its new role, a program for its capacity developinnent
has already been defined. Capacity gaps in CSD will be filled through short-term training, witi l an
emphasis on on-the-job-training and contract employment of both local and international experts. CSD
has already recruited international specialists to support the performance improvement process anid the
enhancement of private sector participation. Through properly targeted training, CSD will devel:)p
sustainable capacity for strategic leadership and management of the reform program in the mediura- to
long-term. It is pioneering the implementation of the PIM. This has commenced with the preparatior. of a
strategic plan for the Department. The coordination of each of the PSRP components are the c lrect
responsibility of specific divisions in CSD. The job descriptions and performance criteria for the I'S,D
Directors are being redefined to stipulate effective coordination of the PSRP components.
Effective donor coordination. In the area of public service reform, the Government has a proven (rack
record of effective donor coordination. Donors to the CSRP have included the World Bank (IDA. Cr.
2507), Denmark, United Kingdom, European Union, Finland, Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, UNDP
and United States. The Joint Govemment-Donors Program Technical Coordination Committee has met



Page 17
regularly (at least every quarter) with the Government in the chair since 1995. It is a measure of the
effectiveness of this coordination that in 1996 the donors teamed up to establish a Joint Donors
Retrenchment Fund, managed by the Government, through which about US$ 100 million has since been
paid to the beneficiaries. Strong donor support is indicated for the future program.
Part B:
Implementing agency. The component will be implemented by the DLC, to be established as an
autonomous nonprofit agency, housed in the Institute of Finance Management (IFM). It will be
considered a "public interest" organization in recognition of its role in promoting advances in policy,
culture and technology among a wide range of actors. The DLC will be governed by a Board, comprising
representatives from government Ministries, the private sector, NGOs and civil society.
Daily management of the Center will be entrusted to a Director selected on the basis of proven experience
in enterprise management or management of similar educational entities. He will be assisted by a team
consisting of a technician (computer specialist with telecommunications knowledge), a facilitator/ trainer,
IFM's accountant and an office assistant.
Component oversight and coordination. CSD will be responsible for coordination and ensuring the
participation of the public and private sectors and donor community in monitoring and training
development activities (through the DLC Board).
The DLC Board will oversee implementation of this component. The Board is charged with monitoring
DLC management and deciding DLC development policy, approving the annual business plan and
program of activities, assessing the Center's financial statements and providing recommendations to help
the Center become financially self-sustaining.
Component implementation. The component will be implemented and managed by the DLC. So that
distance learning activities can begin as soon as possible after PSRP's effectiveness, project preparation
includes establishment of the' DLC (legal procedures, formation of the DLC Board, recruitment of the
Director and staff), and preparation including equipment of the site (classrooms, videoconference room,
computer room, administrative offices, and others). Project preparation activities are being handled by
C SD with support from IFM.
Upon taking office, the Director will prepare a business plan based on a survey of training needs from the
public and private sectors. The business plan, to be submitted for DLC Board and IDA review and
approval, will include: market data, budget and sources of financing, training and other services to be
provided (lectures, seminars, and others), source and programming of training, rates for different types of
training and financial projections in the form of a budget, operating account and marketing strategy. The
business plan will be updated and submitted for DLC Board and IDA review and approval on an annual
basis. To this effect, IFM will continue to assess demand for training, identify and program appropriate
training courses, market the services of the Center and increase its visibility in Tanzania and abroad.
For the first year of project implementation, most training courses will be selected from those offered by
the World Bank Institute (WBI) through its GDLN. However, over the first year, the DLC management
team will identify and establish contacts with a variety of other training institutions capable of providing
training over the GDLN. Over subsequent years, the DLC will match demand for training to the most
appropriate supplier institution, both in terms of course content and schedule availability.



Page 18
Component financing. To facilitate implementation, a special account will be established by the
Borrower in the name of the DLC of Tanzania in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA. The DLC will operate this special account.
The IDA Credit will finance DLC retrofitting and equipment, consultant services and training related to
the DLC start-up. Over the project implementation period, the Credit will also finance, onr a decreasing
basis, DLC incremental operating costs. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to mobilize an
increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the component
implementation period. It is expected that the DLC will cover 20% of operating expenses in the first year,
40%/0 in the second year, 60% in the third year, and be completely self-financing in the fourth and final
year of implementation.
Monitoring and reporting arrangements. The Director will submit an initial business plan (sp ,cified
above) for DLC Board and IDA review and approval. An annual business plan will be developed and
submitted by November 1 of each subsequent year to the DLC Board for review and approval and to IDA
for review. The financial component of the business plan will detail operating expense financing, to
specify, among other things, loan fund proceeds and the capital mobilized by the DLC itself. This should
accord with the financing plan specified above.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the DLC Board within 30 days of the end of each
quarter. At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six montlhs after its completion, the 13orrower and
DLC will present to IDA financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account as well a special opinion on
the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
The DLC will maintain separate accounting records for the components that it manages directly and for its
own operations. An accounting and financial management system will be set up in the DLC prior to the
PSRP effectiveness. In addition to its financial statements, the Center will submit a quarterfy report, one
month after the end of each quarter, presenting a summary of sources and uses of :^nds,
procurement/contracts schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by component ar.d by
category. Assurance has been obtained from the Borrower that accounts and financial statements, arid the
Special Account maintained by the DLC will be audited annually in accordance with international audit
standards by experienced and recognized audit finns satisfactory to IDA.



Page 19
Figure 4: Overall Institutional Coordinating Mechanism for the PSRP
THE CHIEF
SECRETARY
COMMITTEE OF ALL
PERMANENT
SECRETARIES (IMTC)
PS - Civil Service
Department (CSD)
Inter-Ministerial
Working Group (IWG)
on PSRP
CD DIRECPOROF          CSDDIRECTOROF        CSD DIRECrOR OF HUMAN     CSD DIRCTOR FOR        CSDDIRECTOR       CSDINSPECrOR         CSD PROJECT
MA.4NAGEMENT               MIS                  RESOURCES                POLICY                 OF              OF ETHICS        ADMINISTRATOR/
SERVICES                                    DEVELOPMENT             DEVELOPMENT           ESTABLISHMETr                         ACCOUNTANT
CO-OROINATOR FOR         COORDINATOR           COORDINATOR FOR           COORDINATOR         COORDINATIOR       COORDINATOR           PROJECTS
PERFORMANCE             FOR MANAGEMENT           LEADERSHIP AND           FOR PROGRAM              FOR             FOR ETHICS       ADMINISTRATION
IMPROVEMENT,              INFORMATION             MANAGEMENT             COORDINATION,         MERJTOCRACY        AND GENDER
RESTRUCTURING;              SYSTEMS               DEVELOPMENT            MONITORING AND
EXECUTIVE_GENCIS AEVALUATION



Page 20
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Narrow and focused vs. comprehensive approach. The Govermnent has already defined and stated the
case to proceed with a comprehensive approach to the PSRP. It has determined the need for such an
approach on the basis of a serious evaluation of the current CSRP, also a comparatively broad program.
The Government has demonstrated the strategic logic and its readiness to proceed with a comprehensive
approach. In recent years, it has also showed commitment and results through the CSRP. Therefore, it is
considered appropriate that the Bank supports the strategy adopted by the Government5
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) vs. medium-term project approach. The option of a technical
assistance project as successor to the current project (PPRP, IDA Cr. 2507) was considered. However, this
project approach was seen to be inappropriate given the strategy and content of the proposed program.
The PSRP is a comprehensive, long-term program of action for transforming the public service through a
combination of horizontal and vertical interventions. The process-orientation of the iraplementation
strategy needs to be supported by a long-term commitment of flexible and programmatic funding, such as
the APL.
The Bank's experience in undertaking reforms in many countries, suggests that a project-based approach
for financing capacity building initiatives is: (i) inflexible, and does not encourage sustainability which is
crucial if staff are to adjust to changes and develop new skills; (ii) too narrow and lends itself to poor
coordination of various reform initiatives; (iii) often donor-driven and also creates enclaves that drain the
civil service of its best resources, and devoid of ownership. Furthermore, the guidelinies on donor
assistance set by the Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA), Working Group on Civil Service
Reiform, emphasize that: "Civil service reform is a high-cost, resource-intensive activity which requires a
consistently high level of commitment and financing from donors and recipients over an extended period
of time. In situations where recipients are meeting program targets, donors should be as flexible and
responsive as possible in providing aid".
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies:
~~~~~~~~~ AE
Bank-financed:                                                  S 
Civil service reform and    Parastatal and Public Sector Reform
privatization
Accounting/Auditing and Legal Financial and Legal Management    S                  S
Upgrading Project
Decentralization            Urban Sector Rehabilitation Project  S                 S
Agriculture                 National Extension Phase II         U                  U
Public Finance              Tax Administration Project          New                New
Financial Institutional Dev. Proj. II  New             New
Agriculture                 Agriculture Research                S                  S
Agricultural Sector Management Project  S              S
See the "Public Service Reform Program" (2000-201 1), page 10.



Page 21
Health                       Health & Nutrition                  S                   S
Education                    Human Resource Development I        S                   S
Energy                       Petrol Rehabilitation               S                   S
Multisector                  Structural Adjustment Credit I      Newv                Newv
Rural & Micro Finance
Other development agencies:  Personnel controls & Information
1. Public Service Reform     Systems Project (DFID)
Records Management Project (DFID)
Executive Agencies Development
Project (DFID)
CSRP Strategic Maniagement Support
Project (DFID)
Capacity Building Project (UNDP)
Organization and Efficiency Reviews
Implementation in PMO and CSD
(NORAD)
Mainstreaming Gender in CSRP (SIDA)
Training and Counseling Retrenchees
(FINNIDA and EU)
Joint Donors Retrenchment Fund (DFID,
DANIDA, Netherlands, SDC, EU)
Ethics (CIDA)
Decentralization and Local   Decentralization and Local Government
Government Reform            Reform, and Restructuring Regional
Administration (DANIDA, DFID, Irish
Aid, FINNIDA, Netherlands, NORAD,
SIDA, SDC, EU, UNDP)
Regional Development Program
(UNDP)
District Development Programs (DFID,
FINNIDA. Irish Aid, Netherlands,
NORAD)
Social Sector Reforms        Education Sector Development Program
(DFID, EU, FINNIDA, NORAD, SIDA)
Health Sector Development Program
(DFID, DANIDA, EU, Netherlands,
SDC, WHO)
Public Finance Management    Modernization of the Government
Accounting System (DFID, SIDA)
Budget Development and Management
project (EU, SIDA)
IP/DO  Ratings:   HS  (Highly  Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U  (Unsatisfactory), HU  (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the program design:
The development of the program strategy has drawn heavily on the lessons of experience with the
implementation of the nearly completed CSRP including:
*  Political sponsorship and commitment to the reform was narrow and not sufficiently overt;
* Little sense of ownership and commitment to reformns in MDAs:



Page 22
*  Reform program goals and strategies were either little known, or perceived by key stakeholders,
including political leaders, public servanits and opinion leaders, to be negative and/or as having
remote consequences;
*  Limited capacity for change management in MDAs;
*  No clear incentives for the institutions and individuals achieving reform objectives;
*  Weak M&E system;
*  Inadequate coordination with sector development refonms; and
.  Resources for program implementation not readily available, resulting in disruption in the
implementation process.
In addition, Tanzanians have also deliberately sought to gain lessons of experience in the implem,ntation
of other public service reforms. Teams of senior Government officials and Ministers have undertaken
study tours to other African countries (Uganda, Botswana, South Africa and Ghana), South East Asia,
Canada, Great Britain and New Zealand. Furthermore, in early 1998, CSD initiated and organized, with
DANIDA sponsorship, a week-long regional seminar on public service reforms in East and Southem
Africa. Kenya, Uganda, Malawi, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Zambia and South Africa participated. in this
event.
On this basis, and in pursuit of a new vision for the public service, the Government detennined that the
next phase of the reforn would have the following features:
•  A strong focus on service improvements;
=  A performance improvement fund:
•  Budgetary incentives for performing institutions;
=  Merit principles and practices in public service appointments;
•  Enhanced public service pay;
-  A comprehensive information, education and communication (IEC) program;
*  Improved institutional mechanisms for program management and coordination;
-  Contract recruitment to strengthen capacity; and
o  Strong M&E mechanisms.
Strong Focus on Service Improvements: The strong focus on service improvements is reflected in the
strategic theme that has guided the PSRP design. Performance improvement is the focal comnponeni: of the
program. There is a clear nexus between the effective focus on service improvements and s:rategic
imperative for explicit sponsorship of the program by the political leadership in that:
*  Quality public services are the raison d'etre for government, and it has overniding public
interest; and
*  The severity of resource constraints will persist in the medium-term, and therefo:- will
continue to determine the limits of government's capacity to perform.
Furthermore, in the evolving governance environment, the Government recognizes the need to be, more
accountable to the public in tangible ways. Thus, stakeholders and beneficiaries will participate acti vel.y in
shaping the reform and in assessing the perfonnance of the public service. Their views will be taki- n into
account through social pacts, service delivery surveys and other participatory approaches. The s:ralegy
emphasizes that the challenge for Government and all public service managers is to achieve demons;trable
imp:rovements in service delivery under budgetary constraints. The first phase of the PSRP (2.000-21.)04X) is
geared towards providing a framework for all to effectively respond to this challenge.



Page 23
Performance Improvement Fund: The implementation of the MDAs' strategic plan for performance
improvement will be facilitated by resources to be made available under a PIF. It will be a flexible instrument to
support MDA-led programs to improve services within budget constraints. The PIF will be managed centrally
by CSD. It will provide resources to implement the improvement plans and related key capacity building
interventions. Funds for technical assistance and training in strategic planning, operational planning and
performance appraisal will be drawn down according to agreed targets and standards for service improvements.
Resources for capacity building will be accessed as soon as a ministry has developed a credible strategic plan
and has diagnosed its requirements to deliver the strategy. The institutional, administrative and financial
management arrangements for the PIF are outlined in Annex 13.
Budgetary Incentives for Performing Institutions: A simple, but particularly strategic, budget-based
incentive is incorporated into the PSRP design.  When a MDA  demonstrates commitment to
operationalize a services improvement program on the basis of the approved PIM, the MDA will be
graduated out of the "cash budgeting" exchequer release mechanism. In other words, the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) will, on that basis, commit to fund fully and predictably the approved budget (printed
estimates) of the MDA. This measure is also a key indicator of progress in the implementation of the
public financial management reform program. Another budget-based incentive for the restructuring of
MDAs, already promulgated by MOF, is that MDAs are allowed to retain a significant portion of the cost-
savings realized on the implementation of restructuring and private sector participation programns.
Merit Principles and Practices in Public Service Appointments: This is a crucial element in restoring the
competence, motivation, integrity and accountability of public servants. This objective is prominent in the
Public Service Employment and Management Policy. In line with this policy, work has started to
transform the existing service commissions to a single, strong and independent Public Service
Commission. A draft bill to legislate these changes has been prepared and will be laid before Parliament
by July 2000.
Enhanced Public Service Pay: Public service pay levels will be improved to enable the Government to
recruit and retain competent staff. Towards this end, in January 1999, the Government adopted a
comprehensive Public Service Pay Policy. This policy will set clear targets for pay enhancement in the
medium-term, based on the macroeconomic and fiscal scenario reflected in the current Policy Framework
Paper (PFP). Considering the wage bill constraint and with regard to areas of current and future skill
shortages in the public service, the policy stipulates that for the medium-term there will be comparatively
more rapid improvement of compensation for technical and professional staff. In that context, a
comprehensive job evaluation and re-grading exercise is being implemented, and detailed work to
operationalize the pay policy is underway.
Comprehensive Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Program: The execution of a focused
IEC program is an important feature of the project's implementation strategy. The IEC outputs include:
* Political leaders to popularize the strategic theme of the program: "quality public services
under severe budgetary constraints";
* Monthly briefs through the print and electronic media on program implementation outputs;
* A quarterly newsletter widely distributed to all cadres of the public service;



Page 24
•  Periodic press briefings by, among others, the Minister for Public Service (President's
Office); and
•  Publicity events to mark major milestones by Ministries in the implementation of their
performance improvement programs.
Improved Institutional Mechanisms for Program Management and Coordination:  The institutional
mechanisms for program management are geared to: (i) foster local oNvnership and responsiLility for
reform activities in MDAs; and (ii) facilitate effective coordination of the program with other public
sector reforms. It is therefore in this context that the institutional arrangements for the p:,ogram's
management and coordination have been defined (described in C.4).
Contract Recruitment to Strengthen Capacity:  In functional areas where MDAs are pariicularly
constrained to recruit and retain the necessary skilled personnel, a program coordinatecl by C'SD will
enable them to contract-hire skilled Tanzanians at market-based compensation levels. In the meaatime,
the program will support the implementation of the medium-term pay policy and a scheme for su,tainable
capacity building in the public service.
Strong Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms: The PSRP specifies performance indicators f r each
component and related activities. Through service delivery surveys, benchmarking and other similar
instruments, achievements will be monitored, gauged against MDAs' performance plans, targets and
social pacts. The results will be widely disseminated to stakeholders who will take an active role in
ensuring that plans abd targets are achieved. M&E capacity in CSD and MDAs will need to be developed.
M&E will be a vehicle for learning and improving performance in addition to being an accoUnrtability
means. The M&E system will provide appropriate checks and balances between the MDAs arid civil
society. In addition, to reinforce the M&E mechanisms, a Presidential Management Infonnation System
(PREMIS) will be put in place.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Gcvernment commitment to the reform program can be discerned from the successful imp]emenlation of
the current CSRP, especially in the past three years. It entailed considerable social pain and politic 1 risks.
Soon after President Benjamin Mkapa came to office in early 1996, he publicly pledged 1to C"vilrously
pursue civil service and other public service reforns". His govemnment has not flinched in suppor irg the
reform agenda. More than 70,000 public servants were declared redundant and retrenched, recii inment
into the public service was frozen even for those graduating from public service institutions (iri ;,luding
technicians and professionals in teaching, health services, agriculture development, and others), th. public
service wage bill was effectively controlled while pay structures were rationalized. This res .lt-d in
reduced real pay for many senior public service officers, and many senior staff lost their positicns as a
result of ministerial restructuring of the regional administrations. Initially, the Government used large
surns from its limited budget to finance the expensive retrenchment program. It is through demonstration
of its commitment that over the past three years several donors have provided about US$ 1i00 mii lion to
support the retrenchments.  In the same spirit of commitment, through CSRP, the Governm.nil has
successfully launched an anbitious program for decentralization through devolution.
The PSRP is part of the on-going, broader public sector refonns. The program strategy is desi K,n-d to
facilitate the integration and implementation of the various major reforns taking place across the public
service to enhance governance and sector development programs to improve social, econonwic and
infrastructure services. As a follow-up to the 1997 recommendations of the Presidential Commi- ;ion of
Enquiry Against Corruption (Warioba) the Government has also initiated measures to address issues
concerning integrity, transparency and accountability. Another significant and complernentar GOT
initiative is the constitutional reform presented to Parliarnent as a policy "White Paper", ainmed at
strengthening the national framework for democracy and good governance.



Page 25
The Government has been undertaking systematic, in-depth and critical assessments of the CSRP as a
basis for initiating the redefinition of the goals and strategies for the future reform program, including a
two-day national symposium on Civil Service Refonn (January 1998), in which participants were from
academics, private business people, parliamentarians and other political leaders including the opposition
and trade unions. Subsequently, the Govemnment established an inter-ministerial task team that defined
the long-term program goals and strategies, and documented the comprehensive medium-term program
strategy on which this project appraisal document (PAD) is based. Moreover, the Government has
commenced piloting the performance improvement model by initiating the strategic planning phase in
CSD, and two key sector Ministries, i.e., agriculture and water, and one executive agency, the Water
Drilling and Dam Construction Agency.
Concurrently, CSD has developed and secured Cabinet approval of key policies that will facilitate and
guide the PSRP: the Public Service Management and Employment Policy (May 1998); and the Public Service
Pay Policy (January 1999). The Cabinet will, in the coming months, fommally endorse the program strategy and
action plan recently approved at a retreat of allPSs.
5. Value-added of Bank support in this project:
While several other donors have provided substantially more support than the Bank to the currently
ending CSRP, the technical expertise provided by the Bank through the Public and Parastatal Sector
Reform Project was very instrumental in ensuring availability of capacity for program implementation and
in garnering the participation of other donors. Also, through a PPF and a PHRD grant, the Bank
supported the Government's efforts in defining its own strategy and action plan for the next phase. Bank
staff have offered much appreciated comparative knowledge and experience to the Government's program
managers. This assistance needs to be sustained and is still very much welcomed by the Government as it
embarks on this ambitious program.
In addition, substantial and flexible funding over a long period, such as the Bank can provide through an
APL, is an important feature of the strategy that Tanzania has defined for its reform program. While other
donors have committed themselves to support the program, none of them is in a position to earmark any
substantial funding beyond the medium-term. Moreover, there are indications that, without Bank
participation, some of the other donors would be more reluctant to support the program.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 4 and 5)
1. Economic:
The program assists the country's macro-economic stabilization and growth in several ways. Firstly, as
elaborated in E.2 below, the program sustains the stabilization of the fiscal position. Secondly, by
retrenching redundant staff (about 10 percent of the current establishment) primarily through outsourcing
initiatives and implementing performance improvements, the program enhances efficiency and
effectiveness in the use of resources. Thirdly, the program will improve the productivity of the public
sector by redressing the current imbalance in allocation of budgeted resources between personnel
expenditures and operational and maintenance costs. Fourthly, the PSRP will build the capacity of the
public service in policy-making, discharge of the regulatory role and facilitation of private sector
participation. One key element in the capacity building effort is to increase the capacity for cost effective
training for senior level decision-makers in Govemment, the private sector, and civil society by means of
Tanzania's participation in the GDLN.
2. Financial: (see Annexes 4 and 5)



Page 26
Fiscal impact:
The first phase of the PSRP is expected to have a positive medium- to long-term fiscal irmpact. Initially
substantial costs will have to be made to pay for the costs of labor-shedding following rationalization of
Government functions and retrenchment by Executive Agencies (EAs) during FY00. 'These include
retrenchment benefits and costs of managing the reform program (paying for consultancy services,
strengthening management, operating costs, and building information systems). There will be no direct
costs to the PSRP of retraining some of the retrenchees to undertake income-generating activities in the
pnvate sector because this function has been shifted to the Ministry of Labor and Youth Development.
However, the costs of retrenchment will be recouped starting the third year of the program mainly ini form
of reduced personal emoluments following retrenchment. It is assumed, to avoid double counting. tiat in
the short-term, salary savings realized from retrenchment are not matched by increases in salaries of
remaining civil servants. Other savings will be in the form of reduced Government subventions to the
Government departments that perform non-core functions and have been earmarked to be transformed into
EAs, to be privatized or abolished. Other savings are either hard to quantify for purposes of doin g a cost
benefit analysis or are limited by data availability. The latter include savings on the use of differe]nt office
facilities such as telephones and Government vehicles or buildings formerly occupied by the retrenchees.
Potential savings that elude quantification include improved service delivery and public service
management. Furthermore, since there is no detailed action program for the PSRP beyond FY'04, no
attempt is made to do a cost-benefit analysis for the whole period of PSRP.
3. Technical:
The Government's design for the program is a result of serious efforts in strategic thinking and planning.
It reflects lessons learned from the implementation of the CSRP, as well as a clarity of the outcornes and
impact to be pursued through the program. In this way, the strategy is homegrown and can be expected to
take into account the local conditions. At the same time, the strategy has the generic features of a
comprehensive approach to public service reform. Moreover, the program strategy correctly reflects a
broad and long-term perspective on the part of the GOT. By placing the focus on improving the quality of
public services, the program should have a strong and sustained broad national support and impaict well
into the future.
4. Institutional:
Executing Agencies. The institutional and management arrangements specified for the program
leadership and management as outlined in C.4 are sound. The experience of implementing the CSUP over
the past five years has enabled the lead executing agency, CSD, to start developing its capacity and its
ability to manage a fairly comprehensive program. Still, the effective implementation of the PS IRf will
pose new challenges to CSD who will be steering, supporting and coordinating an increasing number of
MDAs to sustain serious efforts in program implementation. For process-oriented inLpleme itation
activities envisaged in the PSRP, CSD needs to develop leadership, coordinating, M&E capacity bh.sed on
professional and technical excellence. CSD recognized this need and has utilized the PPF and the P.HRD
grant to enhance its capacity for program management. Specifically, CSD constituted and trained a.l inter-
ministerial task team to guide and support MDAs in the first step of the performance impro- ement
process, i.e., strategic planning. Furthernore, a comprehensive program for leadership and. mana ,ement
development, beginning with the senior officers of CSD, has been prepared.
PSRP Management (Part A). Overall strategic leadership of the program lies with the Chief Sel,:retary,
Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of Public Service. He has performed this role with ernthusia,sr. and
commitment over the past four years. Overall day-to-day management and coordination of the p-ogram
implementation are the responsibility of the PS CSD. The latter is currently performing that role for the
CSRP and has lead in defining the program strategy. The program will emphasize implementati em of a
capacity building plan that has been prepared for CSD, with a focus on program and projecit management
skills. A limited number of specialized project management staff will be recruited to enable the elfective



Page 27
implementation of the PSRP. This will be done through a competitive process on the basis of
qualifications for the assignment.
DLC Management (Part B). The DLC is to be established during project preparation as an autonomous
agency, governed by a Board made up of a broad stakeholder representation. Activities of the DLC will
be gradually scaled up to allow it time to increase its capacity. The DLC should be operational shortly
after effectiveness.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements (Part A). A financial management
assessment of the existing operations of the CSRP under the CSD has been carried out. This has covered
the organizational structure, staffing of the accounting unit, arrangements for project financial
management, an overview of the accounting systems and controls, and the external audit arrangements.
PSRP will ensure that the accounting system fit with Government's integrated financial management and
accounting systems based upon the Platinum SQL version 4.2 software package. Arising out of this
review a series of recommendations were made and these were considered by the authorities. Actions to
develop financial management, in accordance with OP/BP 10.02, are being taken.  A financial
management consultancy was commissioned to develop the accounting system, prepare a financial
procedures manual, develop the budgetary control system, identify the training needs and finalize a time-
bound action plan to install the accounting system and the use of the PMR-based disbursements. It is
understood that the existing qualified accountant will be available to oversee this work and manage the
accounting unit. Disbursements under the proposed Credit will commence under the existing procedures
and in the interim PMR statements for sources and uses of funds and procurement monitoring reports will
be produced. An action plan has been established and agreed upon for the transfer from the existing
disbursement procedures to PMR-based disbursement no later March 31, 2000. A satisfactory assessment
of operation of the financial management system will be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements (Part B).The same accounting principles
described above will apply. These principles will ensure that the DLC will be financially independent, so
as to ensure long-term financial sustainability.
Y2K Compliance. A Steering Committee for the National Y2K Campaign was established in January
1999. The Steering Committee's main objectives are to provide strategic, financial and implementation
oversight to the National Y2K Campaign's activities including promotion of awareness of the Y2K
problem. The Steering Committee consists of 22 members, including 15PSs. Since the PS CSD is a
member of the Steering Committee, the Y2K issue has been adequately addressed in the proposed project.
In particular, the computer system that will be utilized to run the accounting system is Y2K compliant.
With regards to the broader CSD implications of the Y2K issue, measures are presently being taken to
ensure that adequate contingency planning is in place to mitigate critical risk exposures. GOT has also
solicited World Bank's assistance through the InfoDev Planning Grant to help implement its action plan
for Y2K readiness.
5. Social:
It is projected that the implementation of the PSRP and the LGRP will result in loss of jobs for about
27,000 employees on the Government payroll. There is already considerable experience gained through
the CSRP in designing and implementing programs to facilitate the redeployment of those retrenched.
The CSRP has given rise to mandatory retrenchment of more than 70,000 public servants over the past
five years. To support those retrenched to transit to new occupations outside the public service, the
program emphasizes fair and timely compensation. Except where problems of poor records have resulted
in lengthy delays in payments of statutory retirement dues, the program has run relatively smoothly. The
trade unions representativTes participate in the standing task force that oversees retrenchment and
redeployment. The CSRP has a training and counseling program which is demand-driven (use of



Page 28
vouchers). There is, in addition, a supporting mass media infornation and communication program. A
recent FINNIDA evaluation of the redeployment program attested to its cost effectiveness. This entire
program had a budget of less than US$ 3 million. FINNIDA has proposed the expansion cf the program
to cater for all the unemployed. Program management has moved from CSD to the Ministry of Labor and
Youth Development.
PSRP will support the execution of the Govemment's social programs by enhancing the capacity of the
MDAs to provide strategic and policy leadership in the design and implementation of sucb programs. It
will also monitor and evaluate the performance of these programs in terms of changes in the quan.ity and
quality of services delivered to the public. The results of such evaluations will inform public service
managers on priority areas for enhancing social services. In this way, the PSRP will complerner¢t the
Govermment's other programs for improving basic social services.
6. Environmental assessment:  Enviromnental Category     []   A  []   B [X] C
7. Participatory approach:
The need for a broad consensus on the future reform of the public service was recognizedi early by the
Government. Wide consultations on the program strategy commenced with a National Sympos..um on
Civil Service Reforms. It brought together representatives of the civil society and national political leaders
in both Govemment and the parliamentary opposition to openly discuss issues and options in public
service reform. The proceedings of the symposium were published. At the national level as part of the
annual CSD budget speech in July 1998, the Minister of State for Civil Service presented to iParliament for
debate a fairly comprehensive statement of the planned strategy and content of the future PS]RP, as defined
in the May 1998 Cabinet Paper on Public Service Employment and Management Policy. Moreover, in
the near future, Parliament will debate the bill legislating for the safeguarding of meritocracy by
establishing an independent and unified Public Service Commission and other changes in the fiture
management of the public service.
At the public service level, initiation of the new program strategy commenced with inter-miriisi;erial
strategy sessions bringing together Deputy PSs, Cabinet Under-Secretaries and Directors from across
Ministries to review the CSRP and commence defining the future strategy. The sessions served as
technical reviews on the adequacy of the strategy, its responsiveness to key issues and problems, ard its
feasibility in terns of timeframe, resources and objectives. Concurrently, development of the strat:.g y has
implied the definition of the policy framework for the next phase of reforms, consultations witil: rnany
stakeholders in MDAs, various scoping studies, and work by an inter-ministerial sector strategy grc ap.
It is also significant that the program strategy has been defined with a view to guarantee that its
implementation complements and integrates effectively the on-going sector reforms and th,. local
government reform program, through which improvements in primary public services will be re alized.
With this perspective, a Sector Strategy Working Group led by CSD, comprising representatives fr om key
sector Ministries, was constituted in March 1998 to: (i) link PSRP's design with existing sector strategies;
and (ii) identify administrative and technical support requirements for reforms in MDAs. It is in this
broad consultative framework that the strategy for this program has evolved over the past year.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. ISustainability:
Weak macroeconomic performance and fiscal deficits over extended periods have underpinuiec. the
initiative and drive for public service reform in most countries, including Tanzania. Bloated, we ak and



Page 29
poorly performing public services have been major issues in economies plagued by fiscal deficits and
negative or low growth. The fiscal deficit has significantly undermined the incentives system, capacity
and performance of the public service in these countries. When the fiscal situation improves, there is
danger to lose focus on the purpose and goals of public service refonn. There is a high risk that the reform
implementation effort will slow down, and gains made could be reversed. In this context, critical factors
for the sustainability of the Tanzania PSRP include:
* Maintaining Government commitment to an affordable public expenditure framework;
*  Expanding and sustaining private sector participation in delivering basic social services;
*  Fostering broad-based support for the reform agenda; and
*  For Part B, generating revenue based on demand for the DLC services.
Maintaining Government commitment to an affordable public expenditure framework. The July
1998 Tanzania PER observes that the commitment of the current Govemment to achieving and
maintaining macroeconomic stability continues to bear a large measure of success. For many years the
overall deficit averaged more than 6 percent of GDP the recurrent budget before grants. However, the
1996/97 budget achieved recurrent budgetary savings of 1.3 percent of GDP. This situation could vastly
improve with the anticipated higher rates of economic growth (about 8 per cent) projected in the medium-
to long-term. Considering the current wide gap between public expectations and the capacity of
Government to deliver, the GOT has to contend with strong political and social pressures to rapidly
expand its social programs. The prospect is exacerbated by the pressures for political expenditures likely
to be generated by national elections in 2000, and every five years thereafter. The PSRP will mitigate this
risk by educating and focusing public service managers, political leaders on strategic management of
public resources. The MDAs' strategic planning under the performance improvement model will be
linked directly to the annual planning and performance budgeting exercise.
Expanding and sustaining private sector participation in delivery of basic social services. The levels
of basic social services delivered by the public service in Tanzania today are lower than what they were in
the early 1970s in both quantity and quality. The Government and public aspire to revert to the past levels
of services in the shortest possible time. In this respect, there is enormous pressure on the Government to
expand facilities and the number of workers in such key sectors as education and health at a pace that
would derail the medium-term fiscal framework, and thereby the public service pay policy targets.
Enhancing private sector (including communities and NGOs) participation is the Government's critical
choice to reduce pressures on its capacity. Private sector participation to supply social services is a recent
development in Tanzania. In the relatively short period, the potential for the private sector contribution
has been demonstrated. The PSRP will train public service managers to formulate sector policies and
strategies that facilitate enhanced private sector participation in delivering social services. In addition, the
program will assist public service managers to reach out and forge partnerships for sector development
with the private sector.



Page 30
Fostering broad-based support for the reform agenda. In a democratic political envircinment, such as
prevails in Tanzania, there is a high risk of relatively frequent reversal of policies and shifts to major
reform programs every time there is change of Government. The next general elections in Tanzania are
scheduled for approximately October 2000. Before the end of the program implementation period, 2011,
there will have been at least two general elections, in which Govemments with new agenda may come into
of fice. There is need to ensure the program benefits beyond its end and throughout these changes. The
only way to secure the long-term sustainability of the program is by maintaining broad-based support for
the reform agenda. The PSRP strategy incorporates measures geared to building an enduring general
support.  The program  contains information, education and communication (IEC) activihies for
progressively empowering the civil society to demand services and accountability from the public service.
The Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation component has a strong focus on ways to enlist
public support. The need for extensive consultation and support for the program was recognized early in
the program formulation stage and a very participatory process was initiated at that time.
2. Critical Risks:
The comprehensive approach adopted for the PSRP poses technical, managerial and funding challenges.
The lengthy implementation time frame, that cannot be avoided, exposes the program to the risk of
interruptions arising from possible social, economic or political shocks. As a change process, the
program's effective execution is much dependent on the commitment of the political leadership that is
never easy to maintain. Substantial capacity and experience in managing and coordinating a large CSRP
has been accumulated in recent years. However, the risk that the capacity deficiency will hamper the
smooth implementation of the program at some stages still lingers.
From Objective to Purpose
.  Government commitment to structural reforms,   N    Maintain high level dialogue with the national
good governance and povertv reduction is not       political leadership to keep them focused on the
maintained.                                        long-term goals and benefits.
*  Change in Government policies and strategies    S    Continue to inform fully political leaders on
resulting in reduced commitment to the program     program strategy and implementation pr ogress,
strategy.                                          beginning with a Cabinet retreat, and to be
followed by seminars for parliamentarians.
From Outputs to Objective
.  Public service managers lack sufficient capacity    S    Maintain a program for continuous develcprient
and conmmitment to implement effectively the       of public service managers in strateg.z and
program, or they are not responsive to changes.    performance orientation, management, mon toring
and  evaluation, backed  by  incentive  and
sanctions.
.  Adequate resources are not available  for   M       Sustain donors' interest in the program tlhrough
effective implementation of the program, and in    effective coordination, full transparencq  and
particular  donors  do  not  replenish  the        accountability in the use of their resources.
retrenchment fund.
From Components to Outputs
.  MDAs do not respond to institttional incentives    M  Through the planned IEC program, contini-msly,
to reform.                                         inform, educate the public servants and the -)ublic
on the reform program and involve beneficiaries
_________________________________________  - _____  in the assessment of the MDAs' performan .



Page 31
*  Necessary progress in reform of public financial   Sustain dialogue and collaboration with MOF
management is not achieved.                  H     with emphasis on how the reforms reinforce each
other and establish clear institutional linkages
through IMTC and IWG, including close working
relationships at technical level.
*  Capacity building strategy undermined by failure    M  Ensure that public  service pay  policy  to
to implement the medium-term public service        prominently feature in high-level policy dialogue,
pay policy.                                        and  give  technical  work  to  design  its
operationalization given high priority.
*  Unsatisfactory progress in local government   H     Strengthen programs' linkages and coordination,
reform.                                            through the IMTC  and regular formal and
informal exchanges of managers and technical
personnel.
*  MDAs lack the capacity and/or commitment to    M   Emphasize  capacity building to support sector
support implementation.                            development programs to deliver quality services
through leadership and management development,
and IEC programs.
*  Top management in Ministries fail to support   N   Initiate, as above, programs to educate with focus
and comply with the policy and legislative         on agencies' policy and regulatory framework.
framework for autonomy of executive agencies.
*  Management in Executive Agencies fails to give    N  Monitoring continuously expenditure priorities,
priority to services improvements.                 outputs and outcomes.
*  Political leaders' commitment to merit principles    N  Inform  and educate political leaders on the
and women empowerment wanes.                      rationale and benefits, and M&E system reporting
on achievements, and recommending measures to
improve performance.
*  Parliament declines to legislate for public service    N  Inform and educate politicians on the role of the
transformation.                                    PSC.
*  Possibly  no  political  and  administrative    M  Extend M&E to reveal the omissions to sanction
commitment to rigorously apply sanctions for       offenders and measures taken to apply sanctions.
non-compliance with Code of Ethics.
*  Effective coordination mechanisms are not   N      Introduce system  for monitoring closely the
maintained.                                        performance of coordinating institutions.
*  Lower than projected  growth  in revenue    M      Emphasize through continuous policy dialogue
undermnines commitment to pay enhancement.         pay reform  as crucial to sustainable capacity
building for service delivery and scenarios
developed to adjust to growth levels.
*  Public service managers are not responsive to    S    Emphasize through leadership and management
results of program monitoring and evaluation.      development, and IEC programs the need to
deliver quality services to the population of
Tanzania.
*  The DLC will not generate enough sources to  M      Select a host institution (IFM) that has a private
cover operating and reinvestment cost.             sector orientation and a proven track record for
marketing its courses.
Overall Risk Rating                              S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 32
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
•  The Borrower has prepared detailed guidelines for the operationalization of the perib-mance
improvement model and utilization of the performance improvement fimd.
*  The Borrower has implemented a financial management and accounting system for th. project
satisfactory to the Association.
*  The Borrower will have established the team responsible for program monitoring and evaluation.
•  The Borrower will have developed guidelines for the implementation of local cost compensation
as an element of PIF.
2.. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements):
H: Readiness for Implementation
I] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[xl l. b) Not applicable.
[x] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[xl 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactorv
quality.
[ 1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[xI  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[xi  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project c: Dmplies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Team Leader: Denyse Morin    Vc-j5 Q                       83Xe             _
[signature]
Sector Manager/Director: Brian D.
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: tames W. Adams7\ 



Page 33
Annex 1: Project Design Summary for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Ilieraiifiy of Qbjec*hes    Xey1           "DeJdieaor    Mnion  dC'0c~   upi
Sutor-rkd CAS iI              See         dic               S n.
Improve public expenditure   1. Further downsizing of the    1. Public            1. Sustained
efficiency and build capacity to  public sector towards         Expenditure           Government
manage for economic growth       affordable level and total     Reviews.              comnntitment to the
and poverty reduction.           wage bill sustained at levels                       national vision and
consistent with fiscal                              programs for
ltability.                                          achieving a high rate
of economic growth,
good governance and
poverty reduction.
2. MIDAs budgets reflecting   2. Program            2. Absence of major
sector priorities and         Evaluation            external economic or
improved allocations to       Reports.              political shocks.
operational and maintenance
(O&M) expenditures.
3. Improved accountability    3. Anmual Budgets.   3. Efficient management
and reporting on use of                             of resources.
public resources.
4. Reports by Office
of the Controller
and Auditor
General (OCAG).
Reports on the
Appropriation                            l
Accounts.
Prognmt Purpose   Fa~zd- f4gam In- WAtr          PrgaRetK              fomurpset   a)
Ensure that service delivery  1. Quality of public services    1. Annual surveys of  1. Political will and
within priority sectors of the   retained by the public sector  public services       commitment to the
public service conforms to       improved.                      delivery.            implementation of the
public expectations for value,                                                       reform program is
satisfaction, and relevance by                                                        maintained.
end-201 1.
2. Participation of private   2. Poverty            2. Sustained
sector in delivery of public  assessment            Government
services increased.          reports.               commitment to
reduce the
expenditure
framework to levels
consistent with
affordability and
quality of services.



Page 24
3.  Policies and regulations      3.  Anmual report by    3.  Adequate incentives.
necessary for                     OCAG, the
decentralization, private         Ombudsman and
sector development and            the Anti-
poverty r eduction ar e           Corruption
implemented.                      Bureau.
4.  Social pacts reflecting                                4.  Accountability
improved delivery of                                       requested bl,
serv"ices produced yearly.                                 legislative and civil
a__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ _____ __ __ __ __ __     society.
To improve accountability,        1.  Efficient and effectivTe      I . Anmual surveys of  1.  Committed public
transparency and resource             delivery of services and          public services          service managers to
management for service                peiformance orientation in        delivery.                implement the
delivery in the public service.      the Government's key                                        program.
economic and social
programs imiproved.
2.  Strengthened capacily and     2.  Reports of annual   2.  Continued sufficient
performance in the core           evaluation of            donor support to the
functions of Govenmuent.          performance by           program (including
MDAs against             US$90 million for
their planned and        retrenchment in
published targets.       central Govenment
and local authorities
in Phase 1).
3.  Quarterly and
annual program
monitoring and
e-valuation reports.
0   y!rE¢i  C ru1 S 0 0 0   jX=:fur n  .JJ:QntnL...........................................   ..:  O bjeadw e'0000000l;;      i,SS000  SStS)0j
Component 1: Performance
improvement
*   Performance improvement   I . Performance benchmarks            1.  Annual PIM           1.  MDAs responisive to
model institutionalized in       established for MIDAs under        program                  the institutior al
selected key Ministries.         different institutional set-       documentation            incenlives ax, iilable.
ups for service delivery.         aiid M&E reports.
*   Ministerial structures and    2.  75 'Yo of MIDAs producin,g  2.  Sector-specific        2.  Lack Df sufficient
operations reduced to core,      qua'lity strategic plans,          scrVice delivery         complementIry
effective and affordable         performance budgets ancd           surveys                  progress inb idget
levels.                          annual plans, performance          complemented by          refortmi and rmlaned
agreements and staff              baseline data.           aspects of public
appraisal reports.                                         finance maui. ement.
*   Strategic plans,             3.  At least 50 % of MDAs          3.  MDAs printed         3.  Government
performance budgets and          deliver services to `social        budgets and              conmmitted tci the new
targets, annual plans,           pact" standards and within         annual reports.          public servic-. pay
performance agreements           budget.                                                     policy goals.
and. new staff performance
appraisal reports in
Miistris.                   ___                                                                              _



Page 35
*  Perfonnance-based          4. Majority of MDAs assured   4. Annual
ministerial budgets that      of predictable (budget-       appropriation
reflect decentralized         based) funding of annual      statements.
options, aligned with sector  programs.
policies and priorities
(programs) and consistent
with strategic utilization of
available scarce resources.
*  Quick win" service         5. At least 50% improvement   5. Public
improvements completed       in budget allocations to       Expenditure
in all Ministries.            operational and mainitenance  Reviews.
expenditures achieved by
majority of MDAs.
*  Real wages of professional  6. Customer time and
and technical staff           resources saved by the
improved.                     "quick win" changes.
*  Capacity for policy
analysis and fonnulation,
and monitoring and
evaluation in MIDAs
improved.
Component 2: Restructuring &
Private Sector Participation
*  Further rationalized and   1. Atleast lO %reductionin    1. Public service      1.  Satisfactory progress
reduced ministerial           current public service        payroll and            in the programs for
functions, structures and     employment numbers.           personnel data         decentralization and
staffing levels.                                            base.                  Local Govemment
Reform, and
Executive Agencies.
*  Decentralized, privatized    2. Majority of Ministries to  2. Quarterly and     2. Effective capacity in
and divested functions        reduce by at least 3(0% their  anmual monitoring     CSD to lead MDAs
accompanied by shift in       scope of functions or service  and evaluation        in the restructuring
resources to agencies and     delivery centers. i.e..       reports.               processes.
local authorities.            decentralized, privatized or
abandoned.
*  Non-critical operations and  3. At least a 20% reduction in   3. Budget and     3. NVillingness and
services contracted out by    the public expenditure        appropriation          ability of MDAs to
MDAs.                        framework.                      accounts reports.    implement activities.
4. Public
Expenditure
Reviews.
Component 3: Executive
Agencies Program
*  A series of autonomous     1. At least 37 executive       1. Govemment          1. Launch and operation
agencies launched on the      agencies laumched bv 2004.     gazette.              of executive agencies
basis of meeting the criteria                                                     in accordance with
specified in the Executive                                                         the policy and legal
Agencies Act of 1997.                                                              framework and
supported by MDAs.
*  Improvements in the        2. Target 10% efficiency      2. Program             2. Prioritv given to
services provided by          improvement during the         monitoring and       improving services
Executive Agencies.           first and second year          evaluation reports.   bv senior
following launch.                                    management in
Executive Agencies.



Page 36
3. Sustained improvements in   3. Service delivery
customer satisfaction.        surveys, social
pacts and others.
Component 4: Management
Information Systems
*  Effective controls on
pavroll and establishment.  1. Wage bill under control at    1. Monthly payroll   1. Compliance with
ino more than 5% of GDP.      outtum and wage       payroll and
bill report by the    establishment
MIS Directorate       controls by M.IDAs.
of CSD.
*  Effectively operating     2. Payroll and persomnel data   2. Program           2. MDA.s capable and
integrated personnel and     reports circulated to          monitoring and        committed to
payroll data base by 2000.   Ministries within two weeks    evaluation reports.   implement new
of the month-end.                                   systems.
*  Modem infonnation and     3. No incidence of irregular    3. Audit reports by    3. MDAs' with new
comnmunication systems       and illegitimate positions in  OCAG.                 procedures anid
installed in MDAs.           the payroll (ghost workers).                         standards for data and
information
management.
*  IT applications standards in  4. Distributed IT-based payroll
the public service.          and personnel data bases
implemented in all MDAs
by 2004.
*  B est practice guidelines  5. Retrieval of fully reliable
and. technical support to    basic personnel data in
MDAs.                        MDAs reduced to less than a
day by 2004.
*  National Records Center    6. Non-live records from
established and              MDAs transferred monthly
functioning.                 to the National Records
Center to be operational by
2004.
*  MDAs' registries
reorganized and records
management modernized.
Component 5: Leadership,
Management and Governance  1. All top civil servants (about  1. Program           1. Political lead&rship
*  Leaders and managers with     300) trained in strategic      monitoring and        remains comi iitted to
competency in strategic      leadership and change          evaluation reports.   meritocracy an]ld
leadership and change        management.                                          empowermenA of
management.                                                                       women.
*  Public service "college"  2. Every public servant to be    2. Govemment        2. New Public Service
established and functional.  assessed for relevant skills   gazette.              Bill passed by,;
deficiency and have a                               Parliarnent.
training plan for execution
by year 2004.
*  Single and independent    3 . All new recruits into the  3. Annual reports of
Public Service Commission    service to receive at least a  the PSC.
(PSC) established and        month of induction training.
functional.                                           ____                                          -



Page 37
*  New Public Service Act    4. All appointments into the    4. Reports Of the
approved by Cabinet.         service made by PSC in       Permanent
accordance with new          Commission of
legislation by last year of  Enquiry.
Phase 1.
*  Appointments in public   5. Steady increase in the     5. New payroll and
service based on merit      proportion of women           personnel data
only.                        executives in the public     bases.
service beginning 2000.
*  Gender issues             6. Office of Inspector of Ethics  6. OCAG's reports.
mainstreamed in public       at CSD effectively
service operations.         functional.
*  Enhanced integrity,      7. The Code of Ethics applied   7. Surveys of public  3. Political and
discipline, transparency    throughout the public         observations and      administrative will to
and accountability in the    service.                     opinions on the       apply sanctions for
public service.                                           public services.      non-compliance with
Code of Ethics.
*  Improved public image of   8. Reduced incidences of
the service.                 misappropriation and fraud
of public fiances.
9. Reduced incidence of
complaints against public
servants reported to the
Commission of Enquiry.
10. Government on track in the
implementation of the
medium term pay targets.
Component 6: Program
Coordination, Monitoring and
Evaluation
*  Service delivery         1. An effective system in place  1. Program M&E     1. Program management
improvements are             for monitoring and           reports.              and coordination
monitored and reported       evaluating the outcomes and                        mechanisms
regularly to stakeholders.   impact of public services on                       effective.
a systematic and continuous
basis.
*  A comprehensive baseline   2. Program coordination issues  2. Minutes of the  2. Growth in public
database on public services  tabled and dealt with at the  IMTC and the         revenues to enable
is available.                meetings of the IMTC and     IWG and               enhancement of pay
the IWG.                     quarterly progress    without adverse
reports.             impact on the overall
fiscal position.
*  Effective management and   3. Positions filled in the new    3. Information from   3. Public service
coordination of policy      policy and planning units in  personnel             managers responsive
development and              MDAs with qualified          database on           to M&E feedback.
implementation of public     personnel trained in policy  staffmg in the
sector reforms.             formulation, monitoring and   policy and
evaluation.                  planning units in
MDAs, and policy
unit briefs.



Page 38
.                      4. Quality policy papers                            4. The public (civil
forwarded by MDAs to the                            society) will react on
IMTC.                                               information
disseminated.
*  Regular reports on        4. At least a monthly bulletin   5. Service Delivery
independent M&E of           on the program in the          and other surveys.
changes in quality of and    popular print mass media.
access to public services.
5. Enhanced and incentive-    6. Mass media
oriented pay for public       reports on the
servants benchmarked on       program.
the medium-term pay
targets.
6. Performance agreements and  7. Research reports.
assessments introduced for
all senior public servants
(Chief Executives, Heads of
Departnents and
Sections/Units).
8. Enhanced information,
communication and
education on Government
policies and reforms. Public
informed on government's
progress with public service
reforms.
9. Medium term pay policy
implemented.
10. Public service management
and employment policy
implemented.
Component 1: Performance    Tentative budget:
Improvement                   US$ 33.8 million
1.1 Train leaders and managers                              1. Quarterly          1. Sufficient rescurces
in the key features of the                                     implementation         will be availa] le
performance improvement                                         progress reports.
model.
1.2 Pilot model in 3 Ministries                             2. Strategic plans,
in year 1.                                                      budgets,
evaluation reports,
"social pacts"
prepared by
MDAs.
1.3 Instal "Quick win" service                              3. Results of
improvements in all MDAs.                                       surveys,
monitoring and
evaluation reports.
1.4 Evaluate results of piloting                            4. Ainual progress
and modify strategy.                                            reports.



Page 39
1.5 Roll out model gradually
to targeted MDAs.
Component 2: Restructuring   Tentative budget:
and private sector            US$ 10.7 million
participation
2.1 Develop and issue                                       1. Quarterly and      1. See above.
guidelines for further                                          annualprogress
rationalization of MDAs roles,                                 reports.
functions and structures.
2.2 Rationalize further roles,                              2. MDA's annual
functions and structures of                                     budgets and
Ministries.                                                     accounts.
2.3 Rationalize and restructure                             3. The payroll and
non-commercial public                                           personnel
institutions to reflect strategic                               database.
and efficient use of public
resources.
2.4 Decentralize or contract out                            4. Program
non-core services.                                              monitoring and
l                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~evaluation reports.
2.5 Rationalize MDAs staffing
and prepare establishment
schedules.
2.6 Retrench and compensate
on time surplus staff.
Component 3: Executive       Tentative budget:
Agencies                     US$ 11.0 million
3.1 Prepare agency candidates                               1. Quarterly and      1. See above.
for launch.                                                     annual progress
reports.
3.2 Launch and support                                      2. Government
agencies.                                                       gazette.
3.3 Build and institutionalize                              3. Agency
local management capacity.                                     framework
documents and
ainual reports.
3.4 Introduce new and modem                                 4. Program M&E
information systems in MDAs.                                   reports.
Component 4: Management   Tentative budget:
Information Systems           US$ 5.6 million
4.1 Implement integrated                                    1. Functioning        1. See above.
personnel and payroll system.                                   personnel and
payroll database.
4.2 Phase improvements in                                   2. Quarterly and
records management in MDAs.                                     amnual progress
reports.
4.3 Develop the National                                    3. Program
Records Center.                                                 monitoring and
evaluation reports.



Page 40
4.4 Modernize information and
communication systems in the
central MDAs.
4.5 Develop standards and
local capacity for MIS
implementations in MDAs.
Component 5: Leadership,    Tentative budget:
Management and Governance  US$ 16.4 million
5.1 Build CSD's capacity for                              1. M&E reports.       1. See above.
program leadership and
management.
5.2 Train leaders and public                              2. Program quarterly
service managers in leadership                                and annual
and change management skills.                                 progress reports.
5.3 Educate and train public                              3. Surveys of
servants on facilitating and                                  employees and the
promoting private sector.                                     public.
5.4 Restore merit principles                              4. Programs
and practice in appointments.                                 quarterly and
anmual progress
reports.
5.5 Reinstate ethical conduct
among public servants.
5.6 Mainstream gender issues
into public service management.
Component 6: Program         Tentative budget:
Coordination, Monitoring     USS 10.4 million
and Evaluation
6.1 Establish a robust system                              1. M&E reports.      1. See above.
for programs M&E, including a
baseline survey and regular
service delivery surveys.
6.2 Put in place a                                        2. Budget and other
comprehensive information,                                    government
education and communication                                   policy
(IEC) program.                                                pronouncements.
6.3 Strerngthen the mechanisms                            3. Mass media
for program coordination.                                     reports and
commentaries on
the program.
6.4 Strengthen the planning                               4. Policy documents.
and policy units in MDAs.
6.5 Improve policy
development and coordination
mechanisms at the center of
Government.



Page 41
Annex 1: Project Design Summary for Part B
Tanzania: Distance Learning Center Component
: wxarchy ,of    ves - K   Perfmia.cei ndiatrs               Mnt -nd               C    a  -
......-.-.,. ^.,,-, , -.:, ::- , :,Evakuation                  -   - __--_______  _.-_-_.
Setr-relate   AS- (ot- .   =eto -nat'z                       S eco 7 C-nr           (fo  G-a -o Bank
Repots                 Msin
Improve the performance of    1. Productivity of senior civil   1. Specific surveys to   1. Access to knowledge
private and public sector         servants.                     be conducted every      and information is
professionals.                2. Quality of policy              two years.              transformed into
formulation and                                       better policies and
implementation.                                       improved
3. Timeliness of economic and                             performance by
sector strategy                                       public, private and
implementation.                                       community actors
4. Effectiveness of community                            that has a positive
organizations and private                             impact on poverty
firms.                                                alleviation.
Follow-on Development
Objective:                    5. Number of public and       2. DLC Annual           2. Adequate supply,
Mainstream the use of distance    private professionals         Report.                 quality and relevance
learning as an ongoing tool to   trained.                                               of training courses.
increase access of public and  6. Number and variety of                             3. Absorptive capacity
private sector professionals to   organizations using DLC.                              of tainees.
global innovations and
information.
1.'rojct Dei.lopm.n      .       .Oufcomeo I  tdicat         Pr o-ct ep       -               e     -
Test the effectiveness and    1. Training cost less than     I. DLC Annual          1. Trainee organization
sustainability of a distance      $1 10/day.                    Report.                 willingness and
learning center as part of a  2. Distance learning facility                             ability to pay.
global knowledge-sharing          utilization rate (60% by year  2. Anunual audit.  2. Acceptability of
network to build capacity         3).                                                   distance learning to
amount government officials,    3. DLC operating cost/income                            public, private and
private sector managers and       ratio (1.0 at year 4).                                 community trainees.
civil society.                4. Number of providers of                             3. Regular availability
GDLN courses (increase by                             of relevant courses
5 per year).                                          and convenience of
scheduling for
trainees.



Page 42
Out-put03-0g fro  Each              Output  Iicator0s00000       Project00   Reots00 0     (frome0  Outputs t
*  Distance learning facilities   1  Distance learning facility  1.  DLC Annual          1.  Government willing
exiensively used to train      utilization rate (60% by year    Report.                  to contract mut
decision makers, private        3).                                                      continuing
sector managers and        2.  Number and variety of        2.  Annual audit report.     education.
community leaders.             organizations using DLC,                              2.  Technolog, works
3.  Number of public and                                     reliably ani: is
*   Viable cost recovery plan      private professionals                                     accepted b, trainees.
in place and operational.          trained.                                              3.  Willingnes and
4.  DLC self-financing by year                               ability to p;. y by
4.                                                       trainee
organizations.
4.  Relevance of GDLN
training to country
demand.
OMe t3noetsb   333                     (ut  for' eacht           Pr33 ect3230 333 R r     (frr Comrpnx 333 ti
*  DLC retrofitting and        USSO.88 million.                 1.  Quarterly Reports.   1.  Donors willing to
Equipment.                                                                               allocate part of
training budgets to
*   Support to DLC Start-up     USS2.25 million.                                             DLC.
and Operation.                                                                       2.  Management team is
business or6emted.
3.  Course contmnt
rele'-ant to local
needs.
4.  Participating
instilutions willing
to coverparl of
training cos ,s.
5. Private sectcr
____________________________________________________________willinig to co opecrate.j



Page 43
Annex 2: Detailed Program Description for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
By Component
Introduction
The Government recognizes that attaining thePSRP's goal will be a long-term process. It
entails the pursuit of a cultural reorientation of the public servants as well as the public of
Tanzania, whereby the public will demand and receive due rights and services. It is
recognized that at least a decade of comprehensive and sustained refon-n efforts will be
required. Therefore, the program comprises three phases:
Phase 1: Installing a Strategic Process for Sustainable Performance Improvement
(2000-2004);
Phase 2: Instituting a Performance Management Culture (2005-2008); and
Phase 3: Establishing Quality Improvement Cycles (2009-2011).
The program is explained in detail including costing, in the Govemrnent's medium-term
strategy and action plan. A copy is in the project files.
Phase 1 (2000-2004): Installing a Strategic Process for Sustainable Performance
Improvement
Installing a Strategic Process for Sustainable Perfbrmonce Improvement: The central
thrust of this phase of the reform program will be the installation of a strategic process for
sustainable performance improvement. The strategic process will be put in place in
phases through a PIM in all MDAs. It will support public service managers in
implementing structural and institutional reformns that will result in service improvement.
The scope, clarity and realism of how a MDA's strategic plan reflects role focus,
decentralization, private sector participation and appropriate capacity building measures,
taking into account budgetary constraints, will be critical for support under the program.
The Government will establish a PIF to support the operationalization of the PIM (see
Annex 13). Key features of this model include strategic planning; annual performance
planning and budgeting linked to the overall government budget process; systematic
execution of plans and budget with focus on service improvements; and monitoring,
evaluation and reporting. A Performance Management Unit (PMU). to be established in
CSD, will provide technical leadership and assistance to the implementation of the PIM.
The PMU's management team will need to be strengthened to lead this process. Training
programs in policy and results-oriented management skills for MDAs will be designed
and launched.
Administrative and technical support necessary to institutionalize service improvement
processes in MDAs will be provided during this phase. This includes: i) decentralization
of service delivery responsibilities to local authorities, ii) privatization and contracting
out of non-core functions; iii) transfer of executive functions to executive agencies; iv)
reform  of CSD's training institutions; v) re-tooling and systems development; vi)
regulatory reforms in targeted Ministries: and vii) the provision of client and business
surveys.



Page 44
Under the program, MDAs will publish service delivery standards (social pacts) to
demonstrate their commitment to service improvements and to inform and educate the
citizenry on their rights and service levels to be expected. Annual service delivery
objectives and key performance indicators, linked to the budget process, will be
established by all key MDAs. The indicators will be monitored and adjustments wdill be
made accordingly. A program of service improvements ("quick win") introduced in 1998
will be extended throughout the service.
Strengthening core capacity: In this phase, the program will also support horizontal
interventions crucial in sustaining institutional changes and capacity building. A priority
will be to enhance the capacity of CSD and other central MDAs to lead the reform
program, and to continue to strengthen the political leadership and officers in the M[DAs
to effectively execute the program in their respective organizations. There will also be a
focus on incentives: the first phase of the medium-term pay policy, designed to restore
the competitiveness of professional, technical and managerial salaries, will be carried
through annual pay awards in line with medium-term targets. At the same time, pay will
be related to responsibilities through the implementation of the findings of the on-going
job evaluation exercise. Contract employment will be introduced systematically in key
areas of capacity deficiency, and donor local cost compensation schemes will be aligned
with the Government's medium-term  pay policy targets.  In FY  1997/98, MOF
commenced piloting performance budgeting. However, it was felt that a more straltegic
and properly resourced initiative was needed. A program to strengthen core financial
management systems has been agreed with MOF. Perfornance budgeting in line with
sectoral priorities will have been introduced in key Ministries. As part of PSRP, new
arrangements to lead and coordinate an integrated public sector reforn program wi.ll be
put in place during this phase, i.e., strengthening policy coordination at the "Center of
Govemment" (Office of the President, Prime Minister's Office, CSD, MOF and Planning
Commission). This phase will also support the modernization of the information and
communication systems in these institutions to provide a basis to monitor program
performance.
Phase 2 (2005-2008): Instituting a Performance Management Culture
In this phase transfer of most service delivery responsibilities to local authorities and local
communities will be completed. Increasingly, Ministries will delegate their executive
functions to agencies. The privatization of commercial functions will be completed.
Arrangements to strengthen the Government's regulatory responsibility for privatized
industries will be fully introduced. Results-oriented management practices, i.e., strategic
planning, performance contracting and appraisal systems will be extended throughout the
public service.  Greater delegation of responsibility over personnel and financial
management issues will be piloted in those Ministries satisfactorily operating a PIM and
able to be accountable for outputs.
The program to develop a professional core public service will be in progress. There will
be significant improvement in management training and policy skills through the
delegation of training budgets to Ministries, and also by supporting the effective operation
of training programs in local institutions. This phase should see the extension of strategic
plans in all Ministries based on national targets and objectives. CSD will actively suplport
this process. The program is also geared to strengthen the restoration of effective public
financial management practice, particularly by fostering closer linkages between budgets



Page 45
and performance objectives. Thus, performance budgeting and strategic management of
public resources will be linked and institutionalized.
Phase 3 (2009-2011): Establishing Quality Improvement Cycles
By the end of the program a new culture in public management practices will have been
internalized throughout the public service. Client orientation and accountability for results
will be the norm. In addition, measures to increase public and business participation in
policy formulation will have been introduced. A review of key civil service processes will
have been carried out, and new technology introduced to achieve efficiency and minimize
the extent of red tape and bureaucracy. There will be full delegation of authority over the
delivery of basic social services to local governments. The civil service will be reduced to
a professional core and an increasing proportion of the government workforce will be
employed in Executive Agencies. An efficiency review progranm designed to encourage
continuous improvements in service delivery will have been extended throughout the
service. There will be increased delegation of authority to Ministries over personnel and
expenditures. Donor support will largely be provided to sector programs rather than
projects in the form of contributions to an integrated budget framework, and the
population will demand quality services from the public service.
Phase 1 (The Project)
This first phase (2000-2004) of the PSRP builds on the on-going structural reforms
initiated under the CSRP. Key areas of structural changes include decentralization,
restructuring and private sector participation and an Executive Agencies Program. These
reforms are on-going and will be supported by the PSRP. However, decentralization has
since evolved to a comprehensive local government reform program. An interim enabling
policy and regulatory framework has been put in place by the Government. The LGRP is
strongly supported by several donors (DFID, DANIDA, FINNIDA, IrishAid, Netherlands,
NORAD, SIDA, Swiss, EU and UNDP). Therefore, the local government reform aspects
of decentralization will not be directly supported by the PSRP. However, decentralization,
together with the other structural reforms, have created a new institutional environment
for service delivery to which phase I of the PSRP will respond.
In launching the PRSP, the Government has determined the need for a strategic process
that will facilitate participation of public service managers to implement structural
changes within a framework that supports service improvements. Therefore, installing the
strategic process will be at the core of the new program strategy. This will be achieved by
adding two new components to the on-going components: i) performance improvement in
MDAs; and ii) program coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
Under the CSRP, other changes have also been going on in the areas of management
infonnation systems (MIS) and leadership, management and govemance. The MIS
component remains crucial to sustain the establishment and payroll controls already
instituted. The interventions under the leadership, management and govemance areas are
critical for developing and maintaining capacity for change management and improved
performance of the public service through a more meritocratic approach. It is therefore
considered imperative that phase 1 of PSRP continue to support these changes.
The six components of the program are:



Page 46
Component 1: Performance Improvement
Component 2: Restructuring and Private Sector Participation
Component 3: Executive Agencies Program
Component 4: Management Information Systems
Component 5: Leadership, Management and Governance
Component 6: Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
The World Bank would provide US$39 million for the six components. Two of the CSRP
components (Management Information Systems-MIS--and Executive Agencies
Program) are already strongly supported by DFID with a commitment of about US$ 10
million over the next 2-3 years. Other donors have given an indication that they would
support the PSRP and an additional US$ 6.5 million-would be allocated to "parallel-
finance" Bank-supported components over the next two years: SIDA (US$ 1.7 million for
the gender program), CIDA (US$ 1.0 million for ethics and anti-corruption measures),
NORAD for capacity building, UNDP (US$0.2 million for leadership management and
private sector participation), DANIDA (US$6.0 million towards supporting pay reform)
and USAID (US$5.0 million for private sector facilitation).
Donors are reacting positively to the implementation of PIM in the MDAs. The strategic
process in MDAs is being supported by DANIDA in the Ministry of Health, LGRP in the
Ministry of Local Government and Regional Administration, IrishAid in the Ministry of
Education, and llNDP in the Planning Commission.
PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT--US$33.8 MILLION
This component is the central feature of the PSRP. Its implementation will support the
strategic focus of the program to improve quantity, quality, and access to public services.
This will be achieved by putting in place a strategic process that will facilitate MDAs'
decentralization and the expansion of the range of institutions for service improvemrtents
moving closer to the beneficiaries. Through this component the reform will also support
measures for systematic capacity building throughout the public service on a continuous
and sustainable basis into the next millennium.
The specific objectives of the component are to:
a) Advance the redefinition of the role of the government and improvements in
service delivery with emphasis on the policy and regulatory functions of the
Ministries; and judicious exploitation of opportunities for decentralization and
private sector participation to improve service delivery.
b) Install PIM for enhanced capacity and management of service delivery.



Page 47
c) Promote strategic use of scarce public financial resources through effective
operationalization of the PIM in MDAs with a particular attention to core
services.
d) Facilitate linkages with the various sector reform-s by ensuring that these are
factored into the formulation of the MDAs' strategic plans; and
e) Empower MDAs to improve their performance by providing incentives,
developing their organizational capacity, and making them  accountable for
implementation of their plans and budgets.
The component's implementation strategy will include the following features:
a) Operationalizating PIM and PIF, in phases, in key MDAs.
b) Strengthening CSD as change agent to provide technical leadership and pilot the
operationalization of PIM.
c) Establishing a core group of experts in strategic planning and other aspects of
PIM in CSD and MDAs.
d) Training Ministries on PIM and empowering them to implement their plans.
e) Strengthening the MDAs' capacity and performance orientation.
f) Providing incentives for performance, at both individual and institutional levels.
The PIF is key to this component's approach (see Annex 13). It will be a centrally-
managed fund to support the installation of the PIM. In the first instance, for any MDA,
PIF support will be available on the basis of strategic plans meeting specified evaluation
criteria. Continued assistance will depend on a MDA demonstrating consistent
achievement of a set of performance benchmarks.
RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION COMPONENT
--US$10.7 MILLION
This component will complete and consolidate the implementation of reform measures
initiated under CSRP's ministerial organization and efficiency reviews. The measures
will include:  (i) hiving off non-core functions; and (ii) abandoning non-essential
functions.



Page 48
The basic objective of this component is to support the operationalization of the
institutional changes arising from the restructuring and decentralization of MDAs'
functions. The component's activities will include:
a) Facilitating the transfer of functions. services and operations from one institution
to another.
b) Contracting out non-critical services.
c) Divesting and privatizing services and facilities not needed in the public domain.
d) Redeploying surplus staff.
EXECUTIVE AGENCIES COMPONENT -- US$1 1.0 MILLION
The preparatory stage of a program for systematic development of Executive Agencies
began in July 1996. A policy framework to establish agencies was adopted by Cabinet in
April 1997. The Executive Agencies Act was passed by Parliament in October 1997' and
it received Presidential Assent in December 1997. This component will continue to
facilitate the creation and operationalization of Executive Agencies, with significant
autonomy from central bureaucracy. The Executive Agencies operate in a more business-
like manner leading to greater effectiveness and efficiency, better quality services and
greater value for money. They will pioneer result-oriented management of public services.
This program facilitates decentralization of those executive non-core functions that, due to
strategic or operational considerations, need to remain in the public sphere. The program
targets to improve efficiency and effectiveness of public service delivery by:
a) Isolating the operation of select non-policy and executing functions from the
administrative bureaucracy of ministeriat structures and systems.
b) Introducing client orientation and results-oriented management into the new
organizations.
c) Facilitating clearer accountability for performance of services.
The strategy to implement the Executive Agencies Program derives largely from the
project launched in May 1997 with DFID funding, whose logical framework is depicted in
the Government Strategy and Action Plan. Up to 57 organizations in the Government had
so far been placed under the program as agency candidates. However, following a priority
option analysis of these candidates, 20 have been targeted for abolition or consolidation
with others. On that basis, the program's target is to launch 37 executive agencies in the
medium-tern. Seven will have been launched by the end of 1999.
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS (MIS) COMPONENT --
US$5.6 MILLION
The MIS component of the CSRP was launched in 1995 to reinstate establishment and
payroll control. Since then, DFID has supported two complementary projects: (i)
personnel control and information systems; and (ii) records management. This is one of
the most successful components of the CSRP. In the PSRP, the MIS component will:
a) Sustain the effectiveness of the establishment and payroll controls already in
place.



Page 49
b) Provide relevant, complete, accurate and timely infornation to public service
managers and decision-makers.
c) Support the modernization of information and communications systems in
govemment offices.
d) Improve the quality and availability of information through the development of
efficient, effective and sustainable paper-based records management systems in
the Ministries.
e) Introduce an integrated computerized personnel and payroll system in CSD and
reinforce existing controls.
The approach includes measures to:
a) Install the personnel and payroll system software procured during the last year
and train MDAs' staff.
b) Develop a policy and legal framework for the management of the increasing
number of electronic records and a strategy designed for its implementation.
c) Develop and cause to be developed by others, core IT applications and
infrastructure on the basis of common standards and strategies. There is a need for
a shared and optimized IT infrastructure. It is assumed that it will be established
under the Govenmment Accounting Development Project (GADP) at MOF.
d) Support public service managers in acquiring core IT competencies so that they
are able to understand, plan and manage MIS developments in their organisations.
e) Establish a participatory framework in which an MIS and IT policy for the public
service will be formulated.
LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE COMPONENT --
US$16.4 MILLION
The overall objective of this component is to assist the transformation of the public
service into a meritocracy. The future public service will be characterized by:
a) Public service managers who are empowered through appropriate management
systems, leadership and management skills.
b) Rigorous application of merit principles in the management of personnel issues.
c) Integrity, transparency and accountability in serving the public.
d) Gender sensitivity in planning, implementing, monitoring and evaluating public
service policies, programs and activities.
To achieve these objectives, this program component will have interventions in the
following sub-components:
a) Leadership and management skills development.
b) Restoring meritocracy in the public service.
c) Reinstating ethical conduct.
d) Mainstreaming gender issues into public service activities.
Leadership And Management Skill Development Sub-Component: This sub-component
will comprise four key initiatives:



Page 50
a) CSD as the leading change agent for the PSRP will make considerable efforts to
have in place adequate number of staff to improve its personnel skills, morale,
environment, equipment and efficiency culture.
b) Strengthen the leadership and management skills of political leaders and senior
executives through appropriate training.
c) Establish a Public Service College at existing training institutions.  The
institutions will specialize in management training. The Public Service Co]lege
will use a consultancy approach to establish the training needs of all MDAs and
from this analysis provide relevant training to address critical skill gaps.
d) Training in private sector facilitation. This initiative will build on the work of the
"Investor Road Map" project. Focus will be on customer service training and
improved communication between the private and public sectors.
Restoring Meritocracy Sub-Component: To restore meritocracy in the public service,
recruitment and appointments will be made exclusively on the basis of merit. This
implies open competition for vacancies; non-discriminatory recruitment and selection
criteria, based on merit; and promotion based on open competition and merit. In addition,
an open performance appraisal system will be introduced in all MDAs. Improved
personnel management practices will be implemented. An important element of the PSRRP
is enhanced public service pay levels based on a new public service pay policy ancd an
improved retirement benefits scheme. Thlese will be put in place during this phase of the
program.
Reinstating Ethical Conduct Sub-Component: Reinstating ethical conduct in the public
service will be achieved through inculcating values and standards of performance to
public servants and the public. This will be done through:
a) Implementing the recommendations of the Presidential Commission of Enquiry
on Anti-Corruption (Warioba) Report.
b) Disseminating a Code of Ethics. The code will provide guidelines on levels and
quality of performance, outline ethical principles, create awareness on integrity
and inspire voluntary commitment.
c) Reviewing laws, regulations and practices to identify where they encourage or
abate unethical conduct.
d) Disseminating information through public awareness campaigns and puffing in
place mechanisms to deal with complaints.
Mainstrearming Gender Issues S-ub-Component: Increasing gender sensitivity amongst
public servants is one strategy envisaged to eliminate the imbalances between men and
women. The activities that will be undertaken by the gender sub-component are to:
a) Create gender awareness in all strategically placed personnel (males and females).
b) Build the capacity of women public servants to take-up the challenge to compete
for upward career mobility.
c) Produce various reports and information brochures on gender issues targeting
both men and women public servants.



Page 51
PROGRAM COORDINATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
COMPONENT -- US$10.4 MILLION
Program coordination, monitoring and evaluation under phase one of CSRP was carried
out by its secretariat. In accordance with the redefined program implementation strategy,
the CSRP secretariat has been closed and its reform wvork mainstreamed into CSD and
MDAs. This marks an important step in re-integrating project-based initiatives into the
civil service to ensure long-term sustainability and capacitv building. A key role of CSD
in the PSRP will be to provide: (i) technical leadership to reform implementation by
Ministries, (ii) active monitoring of reforms, and (iii) coordination with other reform
programs especially public financial management reform and local government reform.
CSD is the focal point for coordination, monitoring and evaluation. CSD's role will also
include informing, educating and communicating with stakeholders on progress of the
reform program.
The objectives of the component will be to:
a) Coordinate the policy formulation and analysis process.
b) Facilitate, inspire and support sector reforms.
c) Ensure public sector reform coordination.
d) Monitor and evaluate the PSRP and related refonrs in addition to the various
components of the program.
e) Inform, educate and disseminate the message of public service reforms and the
results of program monitoring to key stakeholders and ensure that stakeholders'
comments are taken into account in the MDAs' strategic planning.
f) Support enhancement of the capacity of institutions at thecenter of Government
for policy formulation and analysis, strategic leadership and coordination of
reforns.
Key elements will include:
*  Monitor the implementation of PIM with an emphasis on decentralization of
services.
.  Collect and analyze infonnation on PSRP components and other reform
programs.
•  Develop MDAs' capacity to fonnulate and evaluate policies.
*  Establish a baseline to assess progress of the PSRP.
*  Monitor and evaluate reforn  outputs and outcomes through service
delivery/client surveys.
*  Establish a feedback mechanism  to take into account results of the
consultations with clients.
•  Report quarterly on progress.
*  Convene regular monitoring sessions to inform IMTC, IWG anid ad-hoc inter-
ministerial sessions on public service reforms.
*  Inform the formulation of sector strategies with M&E results.
*  Collect information and monitor trends in public service capacity, motivation
and performance.



Page 52
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description for Part B
Tanzania: Distance Learning Center Component
By Sub-Component
DISTANCE LEARNING CENTER RETROFITTING -- US$0.88 MILLION
This component comprises:
a) Ugrading facilities made available by the Institute for Finance Management for
establishment of the DLC, including:
*  A videoconference room with a 30-person capacity.
•  A computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, software and internet
hook-up).
* A technical and administrative center.
* Mechanical outfitting such as installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone
wiring.
b) Equipment of the DLC including:
* A Very Small Aperture Terminal--VSAT--(satellite communication terminal).
* Video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment.
* Office and classroom furniture.
*  Various other equipment for DLC operation and security.
SUPPORT FOR DLC OPERATION -- US$2.25 million
This component aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become financially viable. It
includes:
a) Financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first 3 years of
operation.
b) Technical assistance for the training of staff, periodic evaluation of operation and
management effectiveness and establishment of financial accounts and their annual
audit.
c) Purchase of a vehicle to facilitate transport and marketing of DLC services.



Page 53
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
US$ Million
Project Component                    Local      Foreign       Total
1. Performance Improvements in MDAs                   24.5         7.9         32.4
2. Restructuring and Private Sector Participation      6.1         4.3         10.4
3. Executive Agencies Programs                         6.6         4.0         10.6
4. Management Infonnation Systems                      1.0         4.3         5.3
5. Leadership. Management & Govemance                 10.2         5.4         15.6
6. Program Management. Monitoring & Evaluation         4.9         5.1         10.0
Total Baseline Cost   53.4       30.9         84.4
Physical & Price Contingency  2.1          1.3         3.4
Total Project Cost (Part A  55.5         32.2        87.8
Disbursement Categories                 Local      Foreigin      Totaf
Goods                                                  0.0         4.1         4.1
Works                                                  0.2          -           0.2
Sen,ices                                               7.6         24.0        31.5
Training                                              24.1         3.3         27.4
Incremental Operating Costs                           23.5          -          23.5
Unallocated                                            0.1         0.9          1.0
Total Project Costs (Part A}    55.5      32.2        87.8



Page 54
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs for Part B
Tanzania: Distance Learning Center Component
US$ Million
ii2¢ 0-rojectCornpcinent (Pa<irt B)                Local02i;j    l;   20 Foreign  Total
1. Global Distance Learning Center (Baseline Cost)    2.21         0.65        2.86
Physical Contingencies    0.22      0.06         0.29
Total Project Cost    2.43       0.71        3.14
Disbursements                     LoraI       Forig        Tt,
Goods                                                  0.28        0.50        0.78
Works                                                  0.10          -         0.10
Services                                               0.05        0.16        0.21 I
Training                                                -          0.06         } 06
Incremental Operating Cost                             2.00         -            Co
Total Project Costs    2.43       0.71        . .14



Page 55
Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Table 4.1 Retrenchments from the Civil Service and non-commercial institutions
FY00 - FY04
Type of reform                           FY00  FY01   FY02   FY03   FY04
Retrenched bv Executive Agencies           374    156    136    161         0
Abolition from Executive Agency candidates    1920   -       -       -
Retrenchment from Non-Commercial             0    500    500    500    500
Institutions
Retrenched from the Civil Service during sub-  0    617    617    617    617
contracting
Retrenchments (Govt. rationalization)     1770       -       -       -
Number retrenched                         4064   1273   1253   1278   1118
Source: Civil Service Department
Table 1 summarizes the magnitude of labor shedding that is planned over the medium
term. The reforms envisaged include retrenchment as a result of the rationalization of
Government functions and restructuring of non-core functions of government to create
autonomous or semi-autonomous Executive Agencies or abolition of others. The major
costs of these reforms include retrenchment benefits, incremental pension costs from
early retirement, and the costs of managing the reform program. The calculation of the
financial retums for the first phase of the Tanzania PSRP is based on data obtained from
the Civil Service Department (CSD), documents supplied by the management of the PSRP
and the cross-sector MTEF by the Ministry of Finance covering FY00 to FY02. The
analysis presented here takes the average severance package cost per retrenchee to be
US$3,100 inclusive of US$1,000 for commuted pension. The reform management cost is
made up of operating and consultancy costs and are approximated by CSD to amount to
about 1 percent of total severance payments. A large proportion of these outlays will be
spent during FY00 but tail-off in subsequent years. The discount rate of 10 percent has
been chosen by taking into account the current inflation of about 9 percent and its
projected trend as well as the prime lending rate currently at about 17 percent.
Direct and measurable financial retums from the reforms include savings on personal
emoluments (PE) and reduced subventions to the Executive Agencies. However, if the
majority of retrenchees are in the category of civil servants earning the minimum base
salary (Table 4.2). cumulated PE savings from retrenchment are too small to offset the
huge initial costs of retrenchment during this first phase. The pay back period will be
beyond the four years (Chartl). Consequently, the NPV over the four years of phase one is
found to be negative in this case. By contrast, when the financial analysis is done under
the assurnption that the retrenchees fall in the category of civil servants earning the
average civil service salary or average government salary (Tables 4.3 and 4.4), the total
flow of benefits accumulates fast enough to offset the initial costs of the reform measures
over a span of four years on average (Chart 2 and 3). The NPV of the reform program is
found to be positive in this case, and lie in the range of US$12 million to US$14 million.
Under a more optimistic scenario (Table 4.5) where the retrenchees are assumed to fall in
the category of civil servants that are in the upper level grade salary, the analysis suggests



Page 56
that the returns from the reform will be large enough to offset the initial costs of the
program in a shorter time span of only three years (Chart4). Annual incremental
government subventions saved from the closure or privatization of eight Executive
Agencies (EAs) during FYOO and FYO1 are assumed to be realized 100 percent. However.
in the case of Government departments to be restructured into Executive Agencies, it is
assumed that the Government will continue to shoulder 50 percent of the projacted
subventions. The estimates of subventions saved also took into account that the Executive
Agencies Program estimates that only a maxirnum of eight Executive Agencies, can
feasibly be closed/privatized restructured or created in any particular year. Average
budgeted subventions were used to estimate the savings from refonning the required
number of Executive Agencies by category of reform nmeasure recommended by the
Executive Agencies Program. For example, average subventions to be saved for each EA
upon abolition or privatization was Tshs. 56.8 million while the average subventions to be
saved when an agency is created was estimated at Tshs. 40.31 million. Finally, Table 5.6
presents a scenario where a higher constant wage bill to GDP ratio of 4.9 percent is
assumed. This ratio is considered necessary to implement th-e pay reform. In this case the
flow of benefits will surpass the initial costs of the retrenchment during the third year
(Chart 5). The corresponding NPV is positive (US$ 17.3 million) and higher than the
intermediate scenarios in tables 5.3 and 5.4 mainly because of higher PE savings
corresponding to a higher wage bill to GDP ratio.



Page 57
Table 4.2
Computation of NPV for the Tanzania PSRP FY00 - FY04
(Assuming minimum base civil service salary)
FYOO       FY01        FY02       FY03       FY04
Projected Civil Service Employment'         244,100    231,000     219,900   214,273     208,815
Government wage bill (Tshs.Mill) assuming a  277,683    313,821    353,404   399,347     451,262
4.4% wage bill to GDP ratio                .
Estimated retrenchment (Central Govt.,        4064        1273        1253      1278        1118
Executive Agencies)
Minimumbase civil service wage (Tshs.          0.48       0.54        0.64      0.73        0.82
Million) - CSD Estim.
Costs of Retrenchment (US$ Million)           12.72       3.99        3.92      4.00        3.50
Retrenchment Benefits2                   12.60       3.95        3.88      3.96        3.47
PSRP management, operating &             0.13        0.04        0.04      0.04        0.03
consultancy costs3
Cumulated Benefits of PSRP (US$ Million)       3.25       4.70        5.96      7.36        8.76
Cumulated PE savings (US$ Million)4      2.71        3.64        4.69      5.88        7.03
Cumulated Reduction in Subventions5      0.54        1.06        1.27      1.48        1.73
Net Benefits (US$ Million)                    -9.48       0.71        2.04      3.36        5.26
Discounted Net Benefits (discount rate of     -9.48       0.65        1.68      2.52        3.59
10%)
NPV = US$ - 1.03 Million                      -1.03
Exchange Rate (Tshs/US$1)                      720        740         765        781         797
Inflation (%)                                   7.5        5.0         5.0       5.0         5.0
Note: 1 Total civil service employment is calculated assuming a natural attrition rate of 3% and
recruitment of 1,000 staff p.a.
2 The average severance package cost per retrenchee is $3,100 inclusive of $1,000 for conmnuted pension.
3 Retrenchment management costs are estimates as 1% of total severance payments.
PE savings is calculated as the minimum base salary per civil service employee multiplied by the number of
retrenchees in a year.
5 Reductions in subventions are estimated at 100% for Departments to be abolished or privatized, and at 50%
for those to be made Executive Agencies. Abolition and privatization will be done in FY00 and FY01 (four
departments each year). Four executive agencies are to be created each year.



Dage 58
Table 4.3
Computation of NPV for the Tanzania PSRP FY00 - FY04
(Assuming the Civil Service wage bill is 70% of the total GOT wage billl)
FY00       FY01        FY02       FY03        FY04
Projected Civil Service Employment'         244,100    231,000     219,900   214,273      208,8]i
Government wage bill (Tshs.Mill) assuming a  277,683    313.821    353,404   399,347      451,2,2
4.4% wage bill to GDP ratio              __                                          _
Estimated retrenchment (Central Govt.,        4064        1273        1253      1278         11is
Executive Agencies)                          _                                      __ _
Average civil servicewage (Tshs. Million)      0.80       0.95        1.12       1.30         1.' ].
Costs of Retrenchment (US$ Million)           12.72       3.99        3.92      4.00          3.!,D
Retrenchment Benefits2                   12.60       3.95        3.88      3.96         3.47
PSRP management, operating &              0.13       0.04        0.04      0.04         0.C.3
consultancy costs3
Cumulated Benefits of PSRP (US$ Million)       5.03       7.19        9.24     11.58         13.95
Cumulated PE savings (US$ Million)4       4.49       6.13        7.97     10.10        12.22
Cumulated Reduction in Subventions5       0.54       1.06        1.27      1.48          1.7,
Net Benefits (US$ Million)                    -7.69       3.20        5.32       7.58        10.45
Discounted Net Benefits (Discount rate of     -7.69       2.91        4.39       5.69         7.14
10%)                                      __
NPV = US$12.44 Million
Exchange Rate (Tshs/US$1)                      720         740         765       781          797
Inflation (%)                                   7.5        5.0         5.0        5.0          5.'
Note: ' Total civil service employment is calculated assuming a natural attrition rate of 3% and recruitnment of 1,000
staff p.a.
2 The average severance package cost per retrenchee is $3,100 inclusive of $ 1,000 for commuted I: erision.
3 Retrenchment management costs are estimates as 1% of total severance payments.
4 PE savings is calculated as the average civil service wage times the number of retrenchees in a g  ven year. Th cZ
civil service wage bill is about 30% of the total Govermnent wage bill.
5 Reductions in subventions are estimated at 100% for Departments to be abolished or privatized, nd at 50%
for those to be made Executive Agencies. Abolition and privatizatioln will be done in FY00 and F1Y01 (fi: u
departments each year). Four executive agencies are to be created each year.



Page 59
Table 4.4
Computation of NPV for the Tanzania PSRP FY00 - FY04
(Assuming average Government salajy)
FY00       FY01        FY02        FY03        FY04
Projected Civil Service Employment'          244,100    231,000      219,900    214,273     208,815
Government wage bill (Tshs. Mill) assuming a  277,683    313,821    353,404    399,347      451,262
4.4% wage bill to GDP ratio
Estimatedretrenchment (Central Govt.,          4064        1273        1253        1278        1118
Executive Agencies)
Average Government salary (Tshs. Million) -     0.84       0.98         1.15       1.32         1.51
CSD Estim.
Costs of Retrenchment (USS Million)            12.72       3.99         3.92       4.00         3.50
Retrenchment Benefits2                    12.60       3.95         3.88       3.96        3.47
PSRP management, operating &               0.13       0.04        0.04        0.04        0.03
consultancy costs3
Cumulated Benefits of PSRP (USS Million)        5.26       7.46         9.56      11.94        14.30
Cumulated PE savings (US$ Million)4       4.72        6.40        8.29       10.46       12.57
Cumulated Reduction in Subventions'       0.54        1.06         1.27       1.48        1.73
Net Benefits (US$ Million)                     -7.46       3.47         5.64       7.94        10.80
Discounted Net Benefits (Discountrate of       -7.46        3.16        4.66       5.96         7.38
10%/.)
NPV = US$ 13.69 Million                        13.69
Exchange Rate (Tshs/US$1)                       720         740         765         781         797
Inflation (%)                                    7.5        5.0          5.0        5.0          5.0
Note: ' Total civil service employment is calculated assuming a natural attrition rate of 3% and
recruitment of 1,000 staff p.a.
2 The average severance package cost per retrenchee is $3,100 inclusive of $1,000 for commuted pension.
Retrenchment management costs are estimates as 1% of total severance payments.
4PE savings is calculated as the average Government salary multiplied by the number of retrenchees in a year.
Reductions in subventions are estimated at 100% for Departments to be abolished or privatized, and at 50%
for those to be made Executive Agencies. Abolition and privatization will be done in FY00 and FYO1(four
departments each year). Four executive agencies are to be created each year.



Page 60
Table 4.5
Computation of NPV and IRR for the Tanzania PSRP FY00 - FY04
(Assuming the average salary of upper level civil servants)
FY00       FY01        FY02       FY03        FY04
Projected Civil Service Employment'         244,100    231,000     219,900    214,273     208.81:5
Government wage bill (Tshs. Mill) assuming a  277,683    313,821   353,404    399,347     451,262
4.4% wage bill to GDP ratio
Estimated retrenchment (Central Govt.,        4064        1273        1253       1278        1118
Executive Agencies)
Average civil service wage (Tshs. Million) -   0.96       1.23        1.52        1.74        1.82
CSD Estim.
Costs of Retrenchment (US$ Million)           12.72       3.99        3.92       4.00         3.5[
Retrenchment Benefits2                   12.60       3.95        3.88       3.96        3.4 .7
PSRP management, operating&               0.13       0.04        0.04       0.04        0.01
consultancy costs3
Cumulated Benefits of PSRP (US$ Million)       5.96       8.59       11.29      14.35        17.1-i
Cumulated PE savings (US$ Million)4       5.42       7.53       10.02      12.87       15.4,
Cumulated Reduction in Subventions5       0.54       1.06        1.27       1.48        1.7:
Net Benefits (USS Million)                    -6.76       4.61        7.37      10.35        13.6'
Discounted Net Benefits (Discount rate of     -6.76       4.19        6.09       7.77         9.33
10%)
NPV = US$ 20.61 Million
Exchange Rate (Tshs/US$1)                      720         740         765        781
Inflation (%)        _                          7.5        5.0         5.0        5.0          5.J_
Note: ' Total civil service employment is calculated assuming a natural attrition rate of 3% and
recruitment of 1,000 staff p.a.
2 The average severance package cost per retrenchee is $3,100 inclusive of $ 1,000 for commuted I: erision.
3Retrenchment management costs are estimates as 1% of total severance payments.
'PE savings is calculated as the average salary of upper level civil servants mrultiplied by the numiObe- of
retrenchees in a year.
5 Reductions in subventions are estimated at 100% for Departments to be abolished or privatized, Lnd at 50%
for those to be made Executive Agencies. Abolition and privatization will be done in FY00 and FYOl(fo ur
departments each year). Four executive agencies are to be created each year.



Page 61
Table 4.6
Computation of NPV for the Tanzania PSRP FY00 - FY04
(Assuming a constant 4.9% wage bill to GDP ratio and average Government salary)
FY00        FY01       FY02       FY03        FY04
Projected Civil Service Employment'            244,100    231,000    219,900   214,273      208,815
Govt. wage bill (Tshs.Mill) assuming a 4.9%    308,089    349,322    393,528   437,812      486,601
wage bill to GDP ratio
Estimated retrenchment (Central Govt,            4064        1273       1253       1278        1118
Executive Agencies)
Average Government salary (Tshs. Million) -       0.93       1.10        1.28      1.47         1.68
CSD Estim.
Costs of Retrenchment (US$ Million)              12.72       3.99        3.92      4.00         3.50
RetrenchmentBenefits2                       12.60       3.95       3.88       3.96        3.47
PSRP management, operating &                 0.13       0.04       0.04       0.04        0.03
consultancy costs3
Cumulated Benefits of PSRP (US$ Million)          5.79       8.20       10.51     13.13        15.74
Cumulated PE savings (US$ Million)4         5.25        7.14       9.24      11.65       14.01
Cumulated Reduction in Subventions5         0.54        1.06       1.27       1.48        1.73
Net Benefits (US$ Million)                       -6.94       4.21        6.59      9.13        12.24
Discounting Factor                                   1      0.909       0.826     0.751        0.683
Discounted Net Benefits (Discount rate of        -6.94       3.83        5.44      6.86         8.36
10%)
NPV = US$ 17.55 Million
Exchange Rate (Tshs/US$1)                         720         740        765        781         797
Inflation (%)                                      7.5        5.0         5.0       5.0          5.0
Note: 'Total civil service employment is calculated assuming a natural attrition rate of 3% and
recruitment of 1,000 staff p.a.
2 The average severance package cost per retrenchee is $3,100 inclusive of $1,000 for commuted pension.
3 Retrenchment management costs are estimates as 1% of total severance payments.
4PE savings is calculated as the average Government salary multiplied by the number of retrenchees in a year.
Reductions in subventions are estimated at 100% for Departments to be abolished or privatized, and at 50%
for those to be made Executive Agencies. Abolition and privatization will be done in FY00 and FYO (four
departments each year). Four executive agencies are to be created each vear.



Page 62
Chartl                                                              Chart3
10.00 -                             -         ~.2 15.0  -
r                                      _    Fio    K                                                 __ _
600
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 0 Cl  ° gii
400K -                                                                                      O
200                                                    5                                                        B
4.000 
Years ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Yer
YearsYer
Chart4                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Chart2
2000O                                                               15.03 .-
15.00-
10.00.0
0.00 ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ 0
Years                                                       Years~~~Yers



Page 63
Annex 5A: Financial Summary for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Years Ending
IY 2000- ,F-Y,  2001  |y20022 T X
Project Costs
Investment Costs                        10.88       15.81        17.0       11.28       9.37
Recurrent Costs                          3.87        5.66        5.94        4.42       3.59
Total                     14.74       21.47       22.94       15.70       12.96
Financing Sources (% of total)
IDA                                      37%         43%         56%        38%         46%
Donors                                   50%         44%         31%        49%         43%
Government                               13%         13%         13%        13%         11%
Total                     100%        100%       100%        100%        100%



Page 64
Annex 5B: Financial Summary for Part B
Tanzania: Global Distance Learning Center
Introduction
A financial analysis was conducted to determine the terms of financial viability of the proposed r roject. In ^.he
absence of adequate and reliable data regarding the training market in Tanzania, we propose to determine -he
financial goals (pricing policy and cost sharing principle) and market goals(level of demand and capacity
utilization to be targeted) to be accomplished by the DLC management team if the Center is to be financially
self-sustaining by the medium term (fourth year of operation). More market research is needed to have belie:r
information on characteristics of Tanzania's training market and a precise understandingy of its dynamics to
help design an appropriate marketing policy for the Center. Therefore, during the project preparation phase. a
consultant will conduct a detailed market study which will be available to the DLC management team once it is
in place later this year. The main use of the market study is to serve as a key input to the business plan to be
designed by the DLC management team. The business plan will be drafted over the first two months of start-lip
of Center operations.
Main assumptions
Revenue
Income generation: The most crucial set of assumptions pertains to the revenue generation. patterns. Given the
rapid pace of project preparation, only a very preliminary understanding of the market dynamics has be.n
obtained. An alternative approach (admittedly sub-optimal) for deriving a set of precise revenue projections
would have been to use training supply to determine the requirements for the center to be financially viable
and analyze whether these requirements are reasonable from the demand side in the context of Tanzania.
Training supply is relatively precise as most of the DLC courses will be provided by the WBI at least for the
first two years. The main assumption regards the utilization rates for Center facilities, which :re projected,
over the first five years of operation, to be 10%, 20%, 30%, 44% and 60% for each successiv,e year. The
maximum capacity amounts to 4680 student-days of training at a 60% utilization rate. The trainiring iee is set at
around US$ 100 per student per day.
Otherfinancial revenue: The amount of financial support to the DLC to balance its operating cost ver the first
years of operation is determined by the extent to which the Center can generate its own revenue lience, it i.s
defined as the residual between the revenue generated and total funding required to cover of: -rating costs
before depreciation.
Operating Cost
Satellite Bandwidth Rent: The satellite bandwidth cost includes the yearly rental cost for the banc.width and a.
corresponding service charge. Bandwidth costs are fixed costs, i.e., they do not depend on capaci- y utilizaticri
rates. Annual cost is estimated at US$138,700 on the basis of existing rates provided by the supplier.
Personnel: It is assumed that the center has eight local staff including a manager, a facilitator and a technicia-L.
Annual salary per staff is based on current market data for similar positions and responsibililties.
Maintenance: The estimated maintenance costs are based on the following assumptions: loca..ly procured.
equipment (furniture, etc.) and civil works have a yearly maintenance of 10% of initial investment cost:;
internationally procured equipment (equipment for videoconferencing room) has a yearly rmainterance cost of



Page 65
20% of initial investment cost. This high rate accounts for possible contracting out maintenance activities of
sensitive equipment to a qualified foreign or regional company.
Utilities: Utility costs include expenditures on electricity, telephone and water, which were estimated to cost
US$ 15,000 annually by comparison to similar services in Tanzania.
Variable Operating Cost: These mainly comprise costs related to training and office supply, and depend on
capacity utilization. A flat cost of US$25,000 per year has been assumed (which is roughly US$5 per student
per day at full capacity utilization.
Depreciation: Equipment is assumed to depreciate at different rates in accordance with national accounting
standards in Tanzania.
Fee/Interest and debt service: GOT suggests to carry the interest and principal repayment in lieu of the Center
to allow for sensible and attractive training rates. However it is envisaged that the Center assumes reinvestment
and renewal cost of its equipment.
Financial Statements and Results
Based on the above assumptions, basic financial statements of the Center have been established for the first
five years of its operation. Table 5.1 presents the income and cash flow statement as well as its projected
balance sheet. It shows that under the above assumptions the Distance Leaming Center will be economically
viable and self sustaining (reach its break-even point) once its capacity utilization rate attains or exceeds 44%
(or 3465 student-days per year are sold). This is the equivalent of 700 professionals attending a 5-day training
per year.
The income statement suggests that the break-even point (operating cost minus depreciation) will be attained in
the fourth year, when the capacity utilization rate reaches 44% (at a unit cost of US$107 per day per student).
The overall equilibrium (including depreciation to allow for reinvestment) is attained in the fifth year at an
utilization rate of 60%. To achieve this goal, an intensive marketing campaign will be needed from the Center
management team to: diversify DLC products and services and win customer loyalty through steadily
improving quality of service, competitive pricing, and providing training courses that meet expressed demand
and client expectations. This emphasizes the importance of a qualified business-oriented manager to develop
effective marketing tools and attract enough clients to ensure the DLC s competitiveness and financial
sustainability.
Initial pricing of the Center's services aims at promoting DLC products and attracting more professionals and
decision-makers to strengthen their management and policy formation capacity, which is difficult to quantify in
economic and financial terms. Consequently, the operating deficit of the first three years will be covered
through IDA credit proceeds from the project. This financial support will match the exact deficit (without
depreciation), projected to be around US$631,000 for the first three years, making up 136% of generated
income over that period. This support will be provided on a decreasing basis over this 3-year period as
follows: 80% of operating cost in the first year, 60% in the second, and 40% in the third. As the initial training
rate, US$100 per person, is in the low range, it may be raised in relation to the market demand for certain high-
demand courses. A flexible market-driven pricing policy should improve the financial viability of the Center.



Page 66
Tanzania: Global Distance Learning Center
Years Ending
2000          2001           2002          2003          2004           2005            Total
Investment Cost                           949,813       35,000         30,000        30,000                                       1,044,t13
Civil Works                                95,000                                                                                    95 000
Network Access Equipment                  110,196                                                                                   110. 191
International Equipt. for DLC Studios     292,117                                                                                   292 l 1'
Other Equipment and Furniture             257,500                                                                                   257.50(
Shipping and Installation of Equipt        50,000                                                                                    50.00(
Consultant Services and Training          145,000       35,000         30,000        30,000                                        240,000
Operating Cost                             17,000      359,369        359,369       359,369       359,369         359,369         1,813,.947
Fixed Operating Cost                       17,000      334,369        334,369       334,369       334,369         334,369         1,688,847
Satellite Handwidth&Servicing Cost                      138,696       138,696       138,696       138,696          138,696          693,480
Personnel                                  15,000       87,000         87,000        87,000        87,000          87,00C          450,001
AMfaintenance                                           93,673         93,673        93,673        93,673          93,673          468, -i6,
Utilities                                   2,000       15,000         15,000        15,000        15,000          15,00            77,001
Variable Operating Cost                                 25,000         25,000        25,000        25,000          25,000          125,"0
Contingenicies                             95,656       38,813         38,320        38,320        35,368          35368           281,.40
Total Base Project Cost                 1,062,469      433,182        427,690       427,690         394,737394,737                3,140,!6D5
B. Project Financing
2000          2001           2002          2003          2004           2005             Total-
Required Financing
Total ProjectCost                       1,141,571       42,066         36,057        36,057                                       1,255,5:I1
Physical Investment Cost                 996,571                            -             *                                       996,5'1
Services                                 145,000       42,066         36,057        36,057              -                         259,1F0
Financed by IDA                          1,141,57       42,066         36,057        36,057             -       0                 1,255,7'il
C. Project Operation Financing
2000          2001           2002          2003          2004           2005            Total
Required Financing
ProjectOperating Cost                      20,432       359,369       359,369       359,369       359,369         359,369         1,813,80'
Revenue Generation                               -       80,000        147,500      236,000       346,500         458,000         1,268,00(G
Financed by IDA                            20,432      301,217        193,047        69,553                                        584,219
Surplus                                                                                            12,869         (98,6311         (85 7 11
_                                  . . _         . .~~~~



Page 67
Annex 5C: Financial Management for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Background
An initial financial management assessment was carried out that described the current status, provided a
number of recommendations and listed further actions that were needed. In response CSD detailed in a
note the actions that it was taking to move the program towards readiness for implementation and for use
of project management reports (PMR) and PMR-based disbursements. A draft financial procedures
manual was made available for review during the pre-appraisal mission, further reviewed during the
appraisal mission and finalized at negotiations. The financial procedures manual sets out institutional
structure; program accounting policies; operating principles; accounting system and procedures; program
resources and disbursement operations; planning and budgeting; financial reporting; procurement and
payments procedures; fixed assets and stores management; internal controls; records management and
filing systems; and auditing. In addition, some examples of fonns, including PMRs, and organization
charts were provided.
Financial Management Overview
An accounting unit within the Performance Management Unit (PMU) of the Management Services
Directorate of the Civil Service Department (CSD) has been established to manage the financial
operations of the program. It has been recommended that this unit be headed by a Program Financial
Controller and supported by two qualified accountants, including one auditor.
The financial management system is designed to support management in their deployment of the
program's resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in achieving the
desired outputs and outcomes. The system used must be capable of producing timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and
appraise the PSRP overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives. In support the World Bank
has provided guidance on reporting (PMRs) and how this can be used for streamlined disbursement. At
this time, it is felt that while PMU is setting up the accounting systems and recruiting additional
accounting staff it may be a better course of action to start IDA disbursements using existing procedures.
Presently, the PMU is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements and the steps to be taken to achieve this
have been incorporated in a dated action plan agreed upon at negotiations. It is expected that the project
would move to PMR-based disbursements no later than March 31, 2001.
As part of the Government of Tanzania's program of financial management reform major changes have
been made during the last three years on the integrated financial management and accounting systems
(IFMS). The IFMS is based on the Platinum SQL version 4.2 software package. It has been successfully
implemented in most central Ministries this fiscal year and the role out over the few remaining Ministries
and down to regional Sub-Treasury level has commenced this fiscal year. A decision as to the timing of
the change for the PMU to incorporate its accounting into Platinum is reflected in the action plan. Work
on PMR reporting has already been successfully carried out under the IDA-funded Tanzania Tax
Administration Project supporting the Tanzania Revenue Authority.



Page 68
Internal Control
The guiding principles that should be adopted are that the internal controls are appropriate; function
consistently; and, are cost effective. They must take due note of the provisions of IJovernment's
procedures. These are documented in the financial procedures manual. The manual deals in detail with the
systems, authorization process, level and responsibilities. All aspects of accounting, procurement. stores
management and fixed assets are covered.
Financial Procedures Manual
The financial procedures manual has been finalized. The manual was accepted at negotiations.
Basis of Accounting
The cash basis of accounting will be applicable. Any change towards a modified accrual basis or a full
accrual basis will be taken in line with developments of Government's future basis of accounting.
Fixed Assets
In the interim stage it will be necessary to establish a manual or spread sheet fixed asset register. The
Platinum software does have an asset management, inventory and procurement function but decision on
their introduction by Government has not yet been made.
Reporting
Program management should be provided with monthly information on the status of funds and on l: rcject
activities. Quarterly reporting, for external use, should be prepared using the PMRs. Annual statements
will also follow this format but will include additional schedules of supporting info.rmation and
information on the accounting policies and notes to the accounts.
Internal Audit
The Ministry has an internal audit function and it will be important to establish the mechanismns as to how
the project will interface with this function so as to provide a good program of checking of the systems
and their operations.
External Audit
The audit of the PSRP will be carried out by the Office of the Controller and Auditor General. Draft: terms
of reference have already been prepared. These terms of reference are generally in line with the mclde:L set
out in the World Bank Financial, Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) - Anne,;: X IX
and as updated for PMR-based disbursements, if used. The IDA Credit Agreement require the subm.i ssion
of audited financial statements to the Bank within six months following the end of the fiscal year.
Agreement on the final terms of reference will be reached by effectiveness.
Action Plan
Assessment for PMR-based disbursement carried during the project preparation indicates that the project
financial system is not capable of producing quarterly PMRs according to Bank requirements. The .;ction



Page 69
plan covers target dates for the (i) integrated accounting system; (ii) staffing, training and users manual;
(iii) financial management reporting; (iv) financial procedures manual; (v) financial management system
and procurement/contract management--PMRs; and (vi) audit arrangements. The plan therefore provides
the basis for enhancing the accounting/management system to enable the implementing agency to produce
the required level of reports, including linking project financial with physical and/or other progress
monitoring indicators. During the interim period, the implementing agency will follow existing
disbursement procedures but will also be expected to produce the transitional PMR statements, i.e.,
Sources and Uses of Funds - Reports 1-A and Procurement Management Reports 3-A, 3-B, 3-C, and 3 -D.
In addition, the implementing agency will be required to comment on the progress of important aspects of
the project. The completion date for transfer from the existing disbursement procedures will be March 31,
2001.



Page 70
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Procurement
General: Procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out following Annual. Procurement
Plans agreed with the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan. Procurement of goods and works will be in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Crecits" (January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and procurement of
Consulting Services will be in accordance with the Banks "Guidelines for Selection and Ermployment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September 1997 and Januarv 1999). The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for all Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
and Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP) will be used for Consulting Services - the Standard
Bidding Documents as designed and accepted for the Civil Service Reform Project will be used for this
Project. The allocation for project costs and IDA financing by procurement method is indicated in Table
A of this Annex.
Procurement Management: The management of the procurement of goods and equipment, civil works,
and consultant services under the project will be the responsibility of the Program Coordination Unit
(PCU), under the office of the Permanent Secretary, Civil Service Department that will consist of a
Program Administration (existing) and Procurement Officer (to be recruited - as per the recommendations
arising from the assessment of Agency's Procurement Capacity). Currently, under the Civil Service
Reform Project, all procurement activities are carried out by the Project Administration who is assisted by
the Chief Technical Adviser to the Permanent Secretary. This arrangement will be strengthened by the
recruitment of a qualified and experienced Procurement Officer.
Procurement Planning: A draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) for the project has been fiu!nalized
and will be published in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in local newspap,. rs by
November 1999. The GPN will be updated every year and submitted to IDA. It will show all outstanding
ICB for goods and works contracts, as well as consulting assignments. A Procurement Plan has, been
prepared by the Borrower and agreed with the Bank at negotiations. The Procurement Plan in:ludes
relevant information on all goods, works, consulting services, and training under the Project as vel. as
timing of each milestone in the procurement process. The management and actual status of all
procurement will be reflected in the quarterly reports which will be submitted to IDA. Three months; prior
to the start of each subsequent fiscal year, the Borrower will submit an updated annual procu-remen;  plan
in respect of the following year as part of the Annual Work Plan.
Goods and Equipment: Various types of office equipment and furniture and vehicles estimLated al IJS$
3.6 million equivalent, will be procured primarily through International Competitive Bidding 1ICB)
following Bank Guidelines and using Bank Standard Bidding Documents with appropriate modifications.
Small quantities of goods such as office equipment and supplies, consumable materials and spare )arts,
which are normally available off-the shelf at competitive prices, and for which individual cont;racts (lo not
exceed US$ 30,000 equivalent, would be procured through IAPSO (UNDP) and/or prtidmt
national/international shopping procedures, based on price quotations obtained from at least tlhree eligible
suppliers, provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$ 150,000 equivalent. Supply COnITraCtS
would where necessary include installation, maintenance and service back-up (technical assistance) `or at
least one year after delivery. All contracts above US$ 100,000 will be subject to IDA prior revivw in
accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.



Page 71
Civil Works: Civil works will consist of rehabilitation of offices estimated at around US$ 190,000.
Contracts will be awarded on the basis ofNational Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to
IDA. Minor Works costing less than the equivalent of US$30,000 per contract will be procured under
lump-sum, fixed price contracts on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic
contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works,
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA,
and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest
price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and the
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Consultancy Services and Studies: The project will finance various consultancy services. The
consultancy services will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants published in January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999, and
using the appropriate Standard Form of Contract for Consultants Services.
Consultants for coordination, monitoring and evaluation, pilot ministry implementation studies, PIM
implementation, rationalization of non-commercial public institutions, MDA contract management, MDA
feasibility studies, MDA procurement projects and support to CSD, estimated to cost more than US$
200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 16.5 million equivalent will be
selected through competition among short-listed firms and individuals based on Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before comparing the cost of services to be
provided. All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more will be
advertised in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in at least one national newspaper.
In addition, the contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or magazine seeking
"expressions of interest". All consulting assignments in the range of US$ 100,000 to US$ 200,000 would
be procured through QCBS. In the case of assignments estimated at US$ 100,000 or less, the assignment
may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national consultants, provided
that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country and foreign consultants who wish to
participate are not excluded from consideration. Consultant services estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US$ 50,000 may be contracted by comparing the qualifications of consultants who have
expressed an interest in the job or who have been identified. Auditors would be selected using Least-Cost-
Selection procedures.
Consultants for short-term assignments such as fees for trainers, selected staff of the project coordination
unit, hiring of local contract staff, small studies, estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1.3 million equivalent will be selected through competition
among short-listed firms based on the Consultant's Qualifications (CQ) or on the basis of procedures
applicable to the selection of Individual Consultants.
The Standard "Request for Proposals (RFP)"and Form of Contract as developed by the Bank will be used
for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignment, i.e., those not
exceeding three months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. Firms would be invited to submit
expressions of interest for each assignment.
IDA Review: All goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or more will be subject to IDA review of
bidding documents including technical specifications prior to inviting bids, and IDA review of bid
evaluation prior to contract award. As individual contracts for civil works are expected to be below US$
100,000,only the first three civil works contracts will be subject to IDA prior review. Prior IDA review



Page 72
will apply for: (i) Terms of Reference (TOR) for all consultancy services; (ii) contracts to be awarded on
the basis of sole source recruitment; (iii) draft contracts of the first three contracts estimated to cost less
than US$ 50,000; (iv) selection procedures, short-lists and Request for Proposals (RFP), quhlifying
technical proposals, final evaluation reports, and draft contracts when the estimated cost of the eontract
exceeds US$ 50,000 for individual consultants and US$ 100,000 for firm; (v) assignmenits of a critical
nature (as reasonably determined by the Bank) for individuals and firms estimated to cost less than US$
50,000 and US$ 100,000 respectively; and (vi) contract amendments raising the values over US$ 50,000
and US$ 100,000 for individuals and firms respectively. Contracts not subject to prior review will be post
reviewed in accordance with Appendix 1 of both Guidelines.
Training: Training programs are geared toward improving maniagement and skills of public servants.
These training programs would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, as would be
workshops and focus group discussions. Training abroad and in-country, workshops and study tours, in
total estimated at US$ 17.0 million equivalent for the entire duration of the project, will be carried out on
the basis of IDA-approved annual training programs that would identify the nature of training/study
tours/workshops, institutions where training/study tours/workshops would be conducted (selection of
institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates, contents of the course. These will be reviewed by
IDA on a quarterly basis.
Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursements under the proposed Credit will commence under the existing procedures and in the interim
PMR statements for sources and uses of funds and procurement monitoring reports will be produced.
Within 18 months after credit effectiveness, quarterly PMR-based disbursement procedures usi:ag the
Special Account facility will be adopted for the implementation of the project;  in cases were
country/project circumstances warrant direct payment and/or special commitment procedures may be
allowed as may be agreed by the Loan Department prior to negotiations and clearly specified in the C:redit
Agreement.
Disbursements, representing mainly expenditures under short-term technical assistance, will be mac. over
a period of 3 years.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 90% of expenditures on all local expenl:itlres
and 100% of expenditures on all foreign expenditures for civil works, consultants services and training;
and equipment and vehicles. As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disburse:ne,nts
would be completed by four months after project closure. Disbursements would be made against stAndard
IDA documentation.
Special Account: In order to ensure timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the pio' ect,
a special account in the amount equivalent to the first six months estimated expenditures v; 11 be
established in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Funds in the special account would be availi bl. to
finance only eligible expenditures under the project. Before effective date, the initial amount for t:ice six
months expenditure will be established. Further deposits to the Special Account will be on a quarterly
basis as determnined through the LACI Project Management Reporting System. All disbursemnent will be
channeled through the special account and in lieu of Special Account, Borrower may choose to prefi lance
project expenditure and seek reimbursement from IDA.



Page 73
Counterpart Funds: In order to ensure the timely provision of counterpart funds, it is proposed that the
Government establish a project account at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, with an initial balance
sufficient for the first quarter by Credit effectiveness. The Government will replenish the Project Account
at intervals of not less than 3 months, with sufficient funds to meet the Government's share of
expenditures under the project for the ensuing 3 months, and the funds would be applied only to this
purpose.



Page 74
Annex 6, Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
(in US$ million equivalent)
en    t                                                               Cntignce
Civil Works                    -                  -             0.29              0.29
-  -         (0.19)            (0.19)
Consultant Services            -                31.52             -              31.52
-               (17.59)            -             (17y'.59)
Training                       -                27.36             -              27.36
-               (14.98)            -             (14.98)
Equipment & Vehicles         4.05               01S               -               4.13
(3.60)             (0.15)            -              (3.75)
hncr. Operating Cost                            23.47             -              23.47
-               (1.84)             -              (1.84)
Unallocated                                      1.05                             1.05
(1.05)                           (1.05)
Total Project Cost   4.05               83.57           0.29             87.82
of which IDA Funded b      (3.60)            (35.60)          (0.19)           (39.39)
IDA                                                             _



Page 75
Annex 6, Table A2: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for Part B
Tanzania: Global Distance Learning Center
(in US$ million equivalent)
ExpwPditte Caor          -         Otes             :Cf        . TQial (mcl.
Padf B                                                      Conigen3es
Civil Works                                           0.10               0.10
(0.10)            (0.10)
Consultant Sevices                     0.21                              0.21
(0.21)                            (0.21)
Training                               0.06                              0.06
(0.06)           -                (0.06)
Goods                                  0.78            -                 0.78
(0.78)           -                (0.78)
Incr. Operating Cost                   2.00            -                 2.00
(0.69)                            (0.69)
Total Project Cos              3.04           0.10               3.14
of which Funded by IDA              (1.74)         (0.10)             (1.84)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



Page 76
Annex 6, Table A3: Consultant Selection Arrangements for Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
(in US$ million equivalent)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _9_ _         Q   .S    .       O th er
A. Firms                                                   26.48              0.74
-              (16.27)            (0.74)
B. Individuals                           3.11               0.46              0.91
(1.96)            (0.22)               -
Total                                    3.11              26.94              1.65
.____ _____ ____ _____ __ _   (1.96)     (16.49)           (0.74)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, Educational Institutions, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



Page 77
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review for
Part A
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Expenditure Cate gory  Contract Value (Threshold) Procureoent M-hod Cd:tracts Subect to
Prior keview
1. Goods               US$100,000 or above          ICB          US$0.28 million
US$30,000 to US$100,000       NCB             Post Review
Less than US$30,000     NS/IS/IAPSO        Post Review
2. Civil Works       US$30,000 to US$100,000       NCB          First three contracts
prior review. All
others post-review
3. Services            US$150,000 or above         QCBS          US$15.54 million
US$50,000 to US$150,000    QCBS/CQ/IC       US$1.68 million
4. Training &                                      Others        US$0.90 million
Workshops
Total Value of Contracts Subject to Prior Review                  US$21.6 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12
month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Selection of consultants and training activities will be very closely monitored by
IDA as currently there is no adequate capacity to handle the large volume of
consultants selection and activities under training



Page 78
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Part 
1. Consultant Services & Training  30.6                 100%
2. Goods, Equip. & Vehicles        3.7      100% of Foreign & 80% of Local
3. Civil Works                     0.2      100% of Foreign & 80% of Lo cal
4. Incremental Oper. Costs         1.8                  90%
5. Refunding of PPF                2.0
6. Unallocated                     1.0
Sub-total for Part A    39.4
Part B
1. Consultant Services & Training    0.209              100%
2. Goods, Equip. & Vehicles       0.021     100% of Foreign & 80% of Local
3. Civil Works                    0.004     100% of Foreign & 80% of Local
4. Incremental Oper. Costs        0.605                 90%
5. Refunding of PPF               0.950
Sub-total for Part    91.8
Grand Total    41.2



Page 79
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12 months            15 months
First Bank mission (identification)            12/00/1997            10/23/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    07/00/1998            08/08/1999
Negotiations                                   08/00/1998            10/07/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  12/15/1998            01/15/2000
Prepared by: Civil Service Department
Preparation assistance: Initial PPF (US$2,000,000); PHRD grant (US$ 700,000)
Supplemental PPF US$950,000 (DLC Component)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Denyse Morin             Public Sector Management
Elizabeth Adu            Legal
Harry Gamett             Public Sector Management
Paul Ballard             Private Sector Development
Reynaldo Castro         Operations
Brian Falconer           Financial Management
Hovsep Melkonian         Financial Management
Mercy Sabai              Financial Management
Pascal Tegwa             Procurement
Michael 0. Stevens       Public Sector Management (Peer Reviewer/Quality Assurance)
David Steedman           Public Sector Management (Peer Reviewer/Quality Assurance)
VS. Krishnakumar         Procurement
Guenter Heidenhof        Public Sector Management (Peer Reviewer/Quality Assurance)
Vedasto Rwechungura      Operations
Manuel Penalver-Quesada
Charles Humphreys
Linn Hammergren          Quality Enhancement Team
Charles G. Chandler
Fran9ois Binder
Brian Falconer
Philip Mpango            Economist
Keith Mackay             Monitoring & Evaluation
Axel Baumler             Distance Learning
Joseph Ingram
Mehdi Roustayi
Madeleine ChungKong      Language Team Assistant



Page 80
Annex 8: Other Documents in the Project File*
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailed PIP including TORs for key component areas
Financial Management and Operations Manual
Procurement Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Assessment
Procurement Assessment
C. Other
Govemment of Tanzania Strategy and Action Plan 2000-2004
PPF Request Documentation (October 23, 1997)
Supplemental PPF Request Documentation (October 1999)
PHRD Grant (September 2, 1998)
*Including electronic files.



Page 81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Tanzania
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Arnount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                               _                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA       Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Numbar of Closed Projects: 97
Active Prejects
TZ-PE-47761      1999                                     TAX ADMINISTRATION                         0.00       40.00         0.00              38.27         0.00         0.00
TZ-PE-2789       1998   GOVT                              HUMAN RESOURCE DEV 1                       0.00       20.90         0.00              14.68         1.50         0.00
TZ-PE-2304       1998   GOVT                              AGRIC RESEARCH                             0.00       21.80         0.00              18.94          .63         0.00
TZ-PE-2753       1997   GOVT                              NAT EXT PROJ PH.II                         0.00       31.10         0.00              18.82         7.42         0.00
TZ-PE-2S21       1997                                      SAC I                                     0.00      131.50         0.00              24.15        24.93       27.46
TZ-PE-3S570      1997   GOVERNMENT                        RIVER BASIN MGMNSMAL                       0.00       26.30         0.00              17.41         4.39         0.00
TZ-PE-46337      1997   GOVT OF TANZANIA                   LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                        0.00        10.10        0.00                6.91        1.57         0.00
TZ-PE-275S       1996   GOVT                              URBAN SECTOR REHAB                         0.00      105.00         0.00              76.50        16.21         0.00
TZ-PE-2812       1995                                     MINERAL SECTOR DEV.                        0.00       12.50         0.00               2.97         1.41         0.00
TZ-PE-2770       1994   GOVERNMENT                        ROADS II                                   0.00      170.20         0.00             146.15       142.95         0.00
TZ-PE-2801       1994   GOT                               ASMP                                       0.00       24.50         2.4S9               5.S7        5.70         0.00
TZ-PE-2'756      1993   MINISTRY OF ENERGY                 POWER VI                                  0.00      200.00         0.00              37.49        15.32        0.00
TZ-PE-2780       1993   GOVT.OF TANZANIA                  TELECOM III                                0.00       74.45         0.00              15.57        16.15       16.07
TZ-pE-27S3       1993   GOVT OF TANZANIA                   PRIV. PUB. SECT. MGT                      0.00       34.90         0.00               2.73          .66        0.00
TZ-PE-2817       1993                                      FIN.& LEGAL MGT PROJ                      0.00       20.00          .6S               3.87         4.07        2.5S
TZ-PE-2757       1991   GOVT.                             RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                       0.00       76.00        10.97              19.33        25.43       -1.90
TZ-PE-2736       1991   GOVT                               PETROL REHAb                              0.00       44.00         0.0o              14.77i       12.60       12.29
TZ-PE-2734       1 990   GOVT                              PORTS MODERNIZATION                       0.00       37.00         0.00               3 .05        4.72        0.00
Total                                                                                                °0-.00   1,090.25       14.13             471.54       285.71       56.60
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  586.61             2,391.59            2,973.20
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               481.47              491.47
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                1,066.11             1,391.97            2,949.09
Amsount sold                                        0.00                6.29                 6.29
of which repaid              :                  0.00                 6.29                 6.29
Total Undisbursed                                471.54                43.96               515.40
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:   Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Page 82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Tanzania at a Glance
....4.;... . ... .. .. ..... _-1-;0 -
Tanzania at a glance
Sub-
OVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan       Low-
Tanzania     Africa   income        Development diamond'
197
opulation mid-year (mi/lions)                            31.3       614      2,048                  Life expectancy
eP per ccapta (A/as method US$)                          210        500        350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ bllions)                           6.6       309        722
Average an nual  growth, 1991-97
Population (%d)                                           2.9       2.7        2 /            
Labor force Id)                                           2.9        286       2.2     G3NP                               C ',  u  -- rrcss
blast recent entim ate                                           ~~~~            ~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~per  n ~ primnary
Most recentecstimate (atest year available, 1991-97)                                    caper                         enrol/nent
P ov erty (% of populaton below national poverty line)    51          ,,         ,?
Urban population (l of total population)                  24         32         28 8                                                      / ,:
Lfeexpectancyatbirth (years)                              51         52         59                                                       '.5 -
Infant mortality (per /,000 lIve births)                  82         90        78 .
Child malnutrtion (% of children under 5)                 28           .        61                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (94 of population)                   49         44         71
illileracy (% of population age 150)                      32         43         47
Gross primary earn/ment (% of school-age popuiatbon)      70         75         91             - .Tanzania
Mare                                                    71         82       100              --Loe.i4ncome group
FernsIn                                                 89         87        9/ 1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996       1997
Economic ratijos
_ GDP (US$billions)                                       7.5        5.9       6.7
Gross domestrc investment/GOP                            22.0       `.0       18 5
Exports of ponds and serv/ces/GOP                         7.9       21.5      2322                      Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                        ..      9.9        3.4      12 9
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                         .      15.9        1.9       71                          T
Current account balance/GDP                              -3.5      -16 1     -12.6      Domestc
/nteresl payments/GOP                     ~~~~       ~~~ ~~0.5  t.7  1 5                               I  nvestment
Interest payments/GDP                                               'm ,~~~~~~~~Saint
Tot/a/debt/GDP                                           6t.3      126.7                Savn
Total debn service/exports                      6.4      36.7       22.1
Present a[lue of debtl/GP                                  ..      41.9
Present value of debtlexports                     .               210.0
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997   1998-02
(average annuial grmw/h)
GOP                                     ..      2.9       4.1        3.9       5 5                --Tanzania
GNP per capita                          ..      1.3       1.7        1 3       2.5              - Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                 `1325      14.2       18.9       6.0                               g-up
STRUCTURE of 1he ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996       1997  rov0thratesoferprt andi            ment /0ri4
WgXa:E.:a:u>.3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~rot (avnag anua  .rwt).                                                            -p?':.:t:
(Aof GDP)                                                                             xc
AgncutnLre                                               58.4       47.8      4         26
Industfry                      .4                         9.5       13.9      14.32:
Manufacturing                                   ..      .1         7.3       T3       r
Services                                         ..      32.1      39.5       39.0 
Prvate consumption                                        3075./    924       775      .221
General govemnent consumption                     .      15.0       12.2       89                    .     9-'-3 94    s op
Imports o/goods and serices                      ..       .4       3.2 21 -01                    E       tI --,-GDP
197696  1897-87        1996       1997     iorowthn rales of exaports and imparts 4%)
(average annua/ grow/h)
Agilcuttce                                                3.4        4.8       0 9     no
Industry                        _                         2.4        2.9       3.9     21,;
MlanLofaCtring..                                          .
Seovices 124                                                         3 2       39 
Private conmplete.i..po3.0                                            .4          . 3g        ? 4,4
General govemment conSUMPtiOn                              -1.3     -12.2                                    n4   on ?u n
Gross domestic investmvent                        .      -0.7       -91        00
Imports of goods and services                             2.4       -1.1      -0.7                _Ecyrp -.,rna
Gross national prndict                            .       4.4        4.8       432
Noe 1997 data are preliminary est/mates.
Tt diamonds s fouetsr hey ind/cators in the countly (in bold) compared wdth i/s income-group average. I/ data are missing, the d/amond wr/



Page 83
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THE MINISTER FOR FINANCE
Telephone: 112854.                                DiTe TREASURY,
Fax: 117790.                                        P.O. Box 9111,
In reply please quote:                                DAR ES SALAAM.
TYC/B/40/l 08                       28'hOctober, 1999
Ref. No ...........
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn,
President,
The World Bank,
1818 H. Street N.W.
WASHINGTON D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
RE: PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM PROGRAMME: STATEMENT OF
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.   I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of the United
Republic of Tanzania, a Credit of US $ 41.2 million equivalent from the
International Development Association (IDA) in support of the Public Service
Reform  Programme.  The proposed credit will improve efficiency in the
management of public expenditures, strengthen public service capacity for the
management of economic growth and poverty reduction, improve delivery of
services to meet public expectations of value, satisfaction and relevance.
Furthermore, the credit will improve accountability, transparency and resource
management in service delivery, and will also test the effectiveness and
suitability of the Distance Learning Center. The programme is consistent with
the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) formulated jointly by the Government with
the collaboration of the staffs of the World Bank and the IMF.
2.   Tanzania's Civil Service Reform  Programme (CSRP) was officially
launched in July 1987, but its implementation began in eamest in 1993, with the
support of the Word Bank through the Public and Parastatal Sector Reform
Project (PPRP). The focus of the CSRP was to support the structural adjustment
programme, the thrust of which was to achieve macro economic stability through
I



Page 84
restructuring of public services, and through undertaking cost contairnment
measures. The PPRP will officially come to an end in December 1999.
3.   The CSRP helped to redefine the role of the State in Tanzania, leading the
Government to withdraw from direct production of goods and provision of
services, thus reducing its roles and functions to affordable levels aind leadling to
enhanced participation of the private sector and non government organisations
(NGO's) in the provision and delivery of goods and services to the Public.
Outcomes from these measures show that the Civil Service has since been
substantially restructured and employment levels have been reduced by
approximately 25 percent. The structures and tiers of government have been
rationalised through restructuring of the regional administration and through
defining and launching a decentralisation and local government r eform
programme.  Controls over public expenditure and employment have been
restored and significant institutional development initiatives, are well under way
which. include staff training and transforming the Civil Service Commissicn into
an agency for meritocratic recruitment in the government.
4.   Nevertheless, reviews of the Civil Service Reform show that there are still
major problems and challenges for the public service today, which include
unaffordable public services, poor efficiency of systems, decline in public service
capacity to deliver quality services and a general resistance to change. Moreover,
on the basis of a number of review and evaluation processes, which included
internal retreats and symposia important lessons were learnt. It was fbr example
found that the reforms had raised expectations of public servants to unaffordable
levels according to budgetary frameworks; reforms had weak local ownership
within ministries, departments and individual agencies, reform initiatives were
fragmented and the mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of reform ol: tputs
and outcomes were quite weak. Even more significant was that the visionL and
goals of the reforms were remote to public interests in the sense that the re oiims
did not lead to improved services to the general public.
5.   In order to meet the above challenges the government has gone o:n to
design a programme for continuation of the reformn process and which woulc. take
the country through a second generation reform process. The overall goal of the
second phase of reforms is to support the attainment of a high rate of economic
growth through delivery of quality public services. The objectives of this
programme reflect the Government's vision of the future public servic:  as
envisaged in the National Vision 2025, and as elaborated in the Public Se:v:.ce
Management and Employment Policy. The vision to guide and inspire the relo:m
programme is:
2



Page 85
"the Public Service as a national institution of excellence that
plays a pivotal role in achieving sustained national economic
growth and prosperity, and eradication of poverty in the 21st
century"
Underlying this vision is the perspective that the transformation of the public
service will be a long term process. It entails progress beyond structural and
process changes in the operations of the public services, to a cultural re-
orientation of the public servants, as well as the public of Tanzania. Public
servants will need to adopt a mind-set to serve Tanzanians with efficiency,
effectiveness and the highest standards of courtesy and integrity. At the same
time the public will be empowered to demand from the public service their due
right and services.
6.   The goal of the PSRP is to continue reforming the Public Service so that it
provides quality services to the public which are delivered efficiently, effectively
and economically.  However, it will be necessary to continue with the
restructuring and institutional development initiatives which were commenced
during the first phase reform and are not yet complete. Nevertheless, capacity
building and improving the quality of public service delivery will be the major
impetus of the second phase reformn. While capacity building is expected to
dramatically change the way the public service performs other objectives include
implementation of the medium term pay policy and implementing the results of a
job evaluation and job grading exercise.  The other major policy to be
implemented during the reform programme is the public service management and
employment policy.  The two above policies, recently approved by the
government, provide the underpinnings of the PSRP.
7.   The Management and Employment Policy sets out the vision, mission,
core values and management principles for the public service such as the pursuit
of excellence through merit and results oriented management. The strategies for
implementing the policy include the decentralisation of personnel management
functions from centralised organs to each ministry, department and agency
(MDA). Other strategies will entail meritocratic recruitment and selection,
annual and medium term human resources plans, simpler grading and
employment contracts, as well as annual, results-oriented perfornance appraisals,
increased training and human resources development, and merit-based,
competitive recruitment and promotions.
8.   The second policy, the Public Service Medium Term Pay Policy seeks to
significantly enhance public service pay especially in professional and technical
grades so as to create incentives for both sustainable capacity building and
3



Page 86
improved service delivery. Considerable progress has been made in rationalising
the pay structure and increasing transparency by consolidating all allowances into
salaries. However, pay remains low and uncompetitive. Prevailing severe
budgetary constraints make options for effective and all encormpassing pay
reforn measures to be very limited. Yet, from a strategic perspective it is clear
that government has shown commitment to the pay policy by implernenting a pay
increase in the 1999/2000 financial year to professional and technical staff of
between 45 and 54 percent, and of between 17 and 20 percent to other groups.
This indicates clear progress towards effective capacity building which is crucial
for achieving real improvements in civil service performance, in policy making,
in regulating the private sector and in ensuring delivery of quality public services.
9.   The long term reform programme will be operationalized in three phases
over 12 years. The first phase programme (1999 - 2004) will install performance
improvement systems. Phase two (2004 - 2008) will institute performance
management culture in all MDA's, and phase three (2008 - 2012), will install
quality improvement cycles. The three phases will overlap, with the end of each
phase triggering the onset of the next phase and eventually leading to a
transformation of public service in Tanzania.
10. Key features of the PSRP strategy are:
o Broadly shared vision;
o Articulated values and principles;
o Widely shared strategic theme;
o Budget incentives for performing institutions;
o Capacity building measures undertaken;
o Mainstreaming management of the reforms in Ministries,
Departments and Agencies (MDAs);
o Stronger communications programnmr-e; and
o Introducing the Performnance Improvement Fund (PIF) and strategy.
11.  The theme of the Medium-Term Strategy and Action Plan is "Qiiality
Service Delivery under Service Budgetary Constraints". There is an impe-ative
to improve the quality of public Services, despite the prevailing re :urce
constraints. It is in this context that the components of the next programme have
been defined. The components are:
4



Page 87
12.  Performance Improvement Component is the core of the reform strategy.
It seeks to implement the perfornance improvement model in Ministries,
Departments and Agencies (MDAs) as a strategy to improve quality, efficiency
and effectiveness of services and performance throughout the public service on a
continuous and sustainable basis. The Performance Improvement Model (PIM)
will be linked to the results oriented budgeting process and help determine
whether objectives have been achieved when determining new budgets. Also,
performance related awards will be established to reinforce improved
productivity and effectiveness. Such awards could, for exarnple, entail providing
increased autonomy for MDAs achieving improved perforrnance targets.
13.  Restructuring and Private Sector Participation will involve further
rationalisation of the structure and functions of MDAs. The aim is to reduce
operations further to an affordable scale by sub-contracting non-core functions to
private sector companies Initially, 16,460 posts will be affected (over a five year
period) in such positions as: gardeners, housekeepers, caterers, watchmen,
launderers etc. The majority of these posts will likely be retained by the
companies engaged to provide services to Government on a contractual basis.
The Government has further committed itself to reviewing and reforming all
public service institutions in terms of their mandate, approach and scope of
activities. New roles and functions of organisations will be defined, the
appropriate institutional framework and systems to implement the new roles will
be designed and installed, and structures and staffing will be adjusted
accordingly.
14.  The Executive Agencies Programme aims to facilitate the creation and
operationalisation of executive agencies, with significant autonomy from central
bureaucracy, enabling them to operate in a more business like manner, thus
leading to greater effectiveness and efficiency, better quality services and greater
value for money. It is planned to create approximately 38 Executive Agencies
which will retain approximately 8370 posts, but will shed approximately 930
positions. An additional 1920 posts are likely to be abolished as some functions
are no longer required by Government.
15.  The Management Information Systems Component is aimed at ensuring
effective information systems are put in place to support management decisions
in order to plan, manage and control the operations of the Public Service. The
Records Management sub-component aims to improve the quality of
management and availability of information within the Public Service through the
development of efficient, effective and sustainable, paper-based, record
management systems in the ministries. It will also provide a foundation for
introducing computerisation.



Page 88
16. The Leadership. Management and Governance Component seeks -:o make
the Public Service in Tanzania a true meritocracy.  The objectives of the
component are:-
o To strengthen the capacity of the Civil Service Departrnent (CSD),
strengthening leadership and management skills, recreating the Public Service
College and introducing training for private sector facilitation;
o To restore meritocracy through open and competitive recruitment,
performance appraisal, improved personnel management and enhanced pay
levels;
Q To reinstate ethical conduct through inculcation of values and standards of
performance to public servants; and
o To increase gender awareness and sensitivity to eliminate the imbalances
between men and women in the public service and to build capacity of women
public servants.
17.  The Programme Co-ordination, Monitoring Evaluation Component will
put in place a monitoring and evaluation system for all outputs of the PSRP and
build capacity in CSD and ministries to monitor progress. Links with other
public sector reform prograrnmes such as the Local Governmnent Reform
Programme (LGRP), and the Finance Management Reform Programme,
(FMRP), will be promoted and sustained. Monitoring of the implementat:ion of
the pay policy will be pursued rigorously. The component will also exe -ute a
focused programme of information, education and communication jlEC) as an
important feature of the programme. The Government is cormitted to inmprove
national policy management by enhancing policy analysis capacit, and
improving efficiency and transparency of policy design, policy co-orcdinaticrn and
policy implementation in the office of the President, the Cabinet Secretari. Lt and
in ministries. Guidelines and procedures for effective policy management w;r;ill be
reviewed and an effective system for monitoring and tracking the impleemer ation
of Cabinet decisions will be introduced.
19.  The Public Service Reform Programme design and strategy is underT inned
by the realisation of the need for a more strategic approach in the allocatio.l and
management of resources. Specifically, to put in place a system that suj: ports
results and provides incentives to boost performnance "on an on-going t isis",
within the government's medium term expenditure framework (MT EF). The
implementation of the strategy will be facilitated by resources to be nade
6



Page 89
available under a Perfonnance Improvement Fund (PIF). PIF will be a flexible
instrument to fund MDA led progranmmes to improve services e.g. by providing
resources for technical assistance, training in strategic planning, operational
planning, performance appraisal and critical retooling. PIF will be managed by
CSD with the Ministry of Finance also having a key role.
20.  The proposed institutional mechanisms for programme co-ordination are
geared to foster local ownership and to facilitate effective co-ordination of the
programme in relation to other public sector reforms.  The co-ordinating
mechanisms are:
o Committee of all Perrnanent Secretaries (IMTC) established as the Steering
Committee for PSRP, chaired by the Chief Secretary;
o An inter-Ministerial Working Group on PSRP chaired by the PS (CSD)
composed of DPS's from PMO, MoF, Planning Commission, Chief Medical
Officer, Chief Education Officer, Commissioner for Local Governunent,
Accountant General and Cabinet Under Secretaries with CSD Directors as
Managers of Components: and ensuring that;
o Responsibility for implementation rests with each MDA.
21.  Reforms are being mainstreamed into government operations.  The
challenge of providing strategic leadership and effective management of reform
implementation activities falls squarely on every Permanent Secretary, Heads of
Departments and Heads of Agencies. CSD will continue to play a crucial role in
providing MDAs with technical leadership and support, mobilising resources, and
ensuring effective co-ordination, monitoring and evaluation.
22. Government will also continue to enact the legal framework necessary to
support the successful implementation of the public service reform programme.
A new Public Service Act will put in place the legal framework for the
establishment of a Public Service Commission. With continued political support
it is expected that the PSRP will achieve its objectives.
23.  The arrangements will also provide that during the three phases of
implementation each phase will trigger the onset of the next phase. Triggers for
the onset of phase two of the reform programme will be the demonstrated results
of phase one in line with agreed performance targets that will have been
determined with the participation of the Civil Society through Service Delivery
Surveys (SDS) and through other agreed mechanisms for benchmarking. The
Civil Society will provide proper feedback through mechanisms within the SDS



Page 90
framework. Permanent Secretaries in the ten ministries initially targ,-ted for
strategic planning and performance budgeting will have been working for at least
two years with performance agreements that are linked to the results to be
achieved. Implementation of "quick-wins" in all MNDAs will have been achieved
through performance improvement systems while new appointments wNill have
been competitively made by the Public Service Commission that will have been
established as an independent body.
24.  The Government has demonstrated its commitment to the P'ublic Service
Reform Programme through its support for policy and regulation changes, the
drafting of a New Public Service Act and by its deployment of human and
financial resources to accomplish the objectives of the reform prograrnme. This
also indicates the increasing political support for the reform of the Public Service.
The previous phase (CSRP) focussed primarily on successfully achieving macro-
economic stability which we are pleased to say has been accomplished . The next
phase (PSRP) will build on this strong foundation to improve the performance of
the delivery of Public Services.
I look forward to your support on this programme.
Yours sincerely,
Daniel N. Yona (MP)
MINISTER OF FINANCE
8



Page 91
Annex 12: Decentralization and Institutional Pluralism in Tanzania
A Strategy for Improving Delivery of Social Services
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Background
Shortly after independence in 1961, Tanzania adopted a socialist development strategy that stipulated that the
Government would play a dominant and controlling role in the delivery of social and economic goods and services.
Consequently, most medium and large private enterprises, as well as all non-governmental centers responsible for the
delivery of basic social services, were systematically nationalized. Further, in 1972, the Government announced a
program abolishing district and urban-based local government systems inherited from the colonial administration at
independence. Until then, the local governments together with religious groups were the major providers of basic
social services (education, health, water and minor roads). With the abolition of local governments, the regional
administrations, under the direct control of the central government Ministries and departments, became the primary
units for planning and controlling economic development, and delivering basic social services in the districts and
urban centers.
By the early 1980s, it was evident that the country's economic and social development strategy had failed. The
economy was on a downward spiral, and the infrastructure for social services delivery was rapidly deteriorating. At
that time, the national leadership also acknowledged that the central government was overextended. In 1983, with the
launch of a homegrown economic structural adjustment program, the Government reinstated the district and urban
local government councils. However, until the recent changes in decentralization and local government policy, the
roles of these councils remained nominal. The programs, budgets and staff for the councils' social services remained
under the direct control of the central government, through the regional administrations.
Structural Reforms and Redefining the Role of the State
In the late 1980s, Tanzania implemented far-reaching changes in its development strategy. With Bank-Fund support it
implemented programs focusing on liberalizing markets to restore incentives for production. Since the 1990s,
programs for structural reforms and redefining the role of the state, i.e., privatization of public enterprises and civil
service reform, have been under implementation. Two key policy objectives are behind the structural reform
programs and the redefinition of the role of the state:
i.    To reduce the role and functions of central Government towards a more affordable public expenditure
framework. The overextended Government structure evolving out of the socialist era had undermined the
fiscal stability and macroeconomic performance. It also required public financing of programs which,
given the narrow and low public revenue base, are not consistent with development policy priorities.
ii.    To improve the quantity and quality of public services by fostering the participation of non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), communities and the private sector in the delivery of social services,
including infrastructure.
While progress in these structural reforms was slow in the early years, rapid improvement has been made in recent
years.  The implementation of these programs continues with clear and strong commitment of the current
Government. The promulgation of a decentralization policy and the launch of a comprehensive local government
reform program (LGRP) give a new impetus to these structural and institutional changes.



Page 92
Vision, Policy and Strategy for Decentralization
The Government envisions decentralization as a strategy for a broader and more effective institutional framework: for
mobilizing development resources and participation in economic and social development. In this vision, the
institutional framework for delivery of social services will be a partnership of several different actors, in which thle
central government Ministries will play a steering role, focusing on policy-making and regulating the environmrrernt
(see Figure overleaf).
EVOLVING INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
FOR DELIVERY OF PUBLIC SERVICES
CENTRALIZED FRAM[EWORK                                    DECENTRALIZED FRAMEWORK
CENTRAL
I@             '\                d I       \
V AJ ~/ \%Ay/\ '
DEVOLVED
\/                       'J                         I  \                        N \
i ?E X F i'tPwfE



93
The objective in the Government's policy on decentralization is to improve the delivery of public
services. It stipulates that the raison d'etre for decentralization of roles, authority and resources by
the central government to the local governments is the latter's capacity, efficiency and
effectiveness to deliver public services. Therefore, where a local government authority cannot
improve on the performance of the central government in tenns of service delivery, there will be
no decentralization.
The policy and strategy for decentralization to local authorities is supported by the following
principles:
*  A local government system within a unitary state: Tanzania remains a unitary state.
Thus, decentralization will give local government councils discretionary powers
within a national, legal and regulatory framework. The councils are obliged to follow
national policy priorities as defined by the National Assembly (Parliament) and
translated into guidelines by the Government.
* A unitary local government system: All local government councils will be governed
by a uniform policy, legislative and regulatory framework.
*  Political decentralization: District and urban councils constitute the highest political
authority within their area of local government jurisdiction. Leaders of these councils
are democratically elected. There will be lower-level local governments, including
ward and village councils, whose leaders will also be elected through a universal
suffrage system. Lower-level governments will remain subordinated to higher-level
local governments regarding development planning, fiscal issues and local legislation
of by-laws.
*  Subsidiarity in sharing roles and functions:The subsidiarity principle underscores
the case for multiplicity of service providers. Higher level institutions assume roles
and responsibilities only to the extent that the lower level entities do not have the
capacity to do so. Thus, the principle of subsidiarity entails a decentralization of
public service provision linked to a devolution of political powers to lower levels as
far as feasible. Accordingly, after the decentralization of a function to a local
government council, it may in turn decentralize further down to wards and village
councils, or devolve management responsibilities for a specific function to private
contractors, management boards, agencies and user groups.
The implementation of the decentralization policy to local authorities constitutes the
comprehensive local government reform program (LGRP) launched by GOT in 1997. The initial
phase of this program was the restructuring of the regional administrations. This involved
stripping the regional administrations (tier of central govermnent) of the powers, responsibilities
and resources and transferring these to the local governments. By the time this phase was
completed in 1998, the staff establishment in the regional administrations had been reduced from
about 14,000 to less than 2,000. The program for decentralization will, over the medium-term,
gradually result in the transfer of roles, functions and resources from central government
Ministries to local government councils. The program is also restructuring and strengthening the
local government councils for the new roles.



94
Private Sector Participation
Following the ideological shift from socialism, the Government has, in the 1990s, adopted a
private sector-led economic development strategy. The Government also recognized the potential
role of the private sector (broadly defined to include NGOs and communities) in the pr ovisioll of
social goods and services. Measures have been initiated to facilitate enhanced private seztor
participation. Within the CSRP, programs were launched to inform and educate public servants,
especially those in areas affecting private business investments and operations, to play a positive
and facilitating role in their client relations. Plans to solicit private sector support in the delivery
of operational services through contracting-out and similar arrangements were launched. MDAs
are encouraged to foster partnerships with NGOs, communities and the private sector to expand
supply, and enhance access to social services. Tanzania's private sector remains comparatively
small. Nevertheless, it is already responding significantly to the opportunities arising in sectors
such as education and health. It is expected that the private sectors interest and participation will
increase as Tanzania's economic growth improves over the medium-term.
Evolving Public Service Institutional Framework
The central Government is gradually withdrawing from direct delivery of social goods and
services as the participation of the local governments, communities, NGOs and the private sector
expands. In the central Government itself, Ministries will gradually transfer non-core services to
executive agencies and, wherever cost-effective, contract-out services to private sector operators.
However, for various political, social and governance reasons, it will be a long time be-Fore many
functions and services can be fully decentralized from central government Ministries and
departnents. Therefore, out of the Govermment's strategy and programs for structural refoims
and decentralization, a fairly complex pluralistic institutional structure for delivery of social
services is evolving.
This new institutional framework poses challenges for the future management of the pub [ic secr.r:
a) coordinating a fragmented institutional framework;
b) risking the loss and waste of resources through leakage in the system;
c) ensuring accountability by agencies; and
d) running the risk of local elite muzzling public expression.
As envisaged in the Government policy, the framework provides opportunities for a broader U.nC
more effective structure to mobilize resources and capacity to provide public services. This is
particularly important in a situation whereby the government has limited capacity and resourc-s
The institutional pluralism has also profound implications on strategies for improving the quality
of public services.
Public Service Reform Program Response
The PSRP responds to this evolving public service institutional framework by:
a) introducing a simple strategic process model that will facilitate public service managers to
deal with the opportunities and challenges inherent to the framework;
b) initiating, through the same strategic model, a framework for building the capacity and
providing incentives to meet the management and performance challenges; and



95
c) launching an information, education and communication (IEC) program that will not only
reinforce monitoring and evaluation of the program's outputs and outcomes, but also
empower stakeholders to demand quality services and accountability.



96
Annex 13: Performance Improvement Process and Budgeting Mechanism
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Introduction
The PSRP strongly focuses on achieving sustainable improvements in the capacity ;md
performance of the public service. The Tanzanians have developed a process-oriented change
management model (Performance hmprovement Model--PIM) to achieve these results. An
important feature of the approach is a Performance Improvement Fund that will provide flexible
financing to facilitate performance improvements and provide incentives to MDAs. The approach
emphasises local ownership and commitment to change management at the individual ministry,
department or agency levels.
Performance Improvement Process
The Performance Improvement Fund (PIF) will be a strategic instrument in the pursuit of
sustained improvements in the quality of public services. The PIF will be used to operationalize
the PIM. The key features of the PIM include:
*  Three linked planning processes at the strategic, operational and individual level.
•  During the strategic planning process each MDA  will re-examine its
organization's mission and vision (based on its respective extemal and internal
environment) together with policies, strategies and associated objectives for
achieving them.
-  MDAs will be required to ascertain critical factors to measure performance to
achieve their objectives.  They will also identify capacity and ,resources
(professional skills, leadership, HRD, management structures, management and
operating processes) needed to implement the strategic plan.
-  Following the strategic planning phase, an operational planning process :at
divisional level) will begin. This process should run in tandem with tile
Government's existing budget process. At this stage, MDAs will be expected to
identify priorities for the next financial year taking into accounl. budget
constraints, ceilings and extemal sources available. Therefore outputs will be
related to expenditures. Deliverables anticipated from this process includle
objectives and targets, outputs, performance indicators, activities and. outp.t-
based budgets.
*  At the individual level, MDA employees, starting at the top, will discuss awd
agree on three or more individual objectives that should be linked to the MDA 's
targets identified in its operational plan. Development and training needs arisir g
from this will also be agreed, prioritized and scheduled.
* The strategic and operation plans will form the basis on which each MDA will
publish a social pact setting out, among other things, standards of service th;:t
the public can expect from the MDA in the short- to medium-term (1-3 years).
This pact will also outline the parameters and constraints within which it will I:ze
in a position to deliver certain services and not others and will set up a
consultation process with stakeholders.



97
It is anticipated that performance reviews of all three plans (strategic,
organizational and individual) will be undertaken at least twice a year. This
process will include benchmarking of results and service delivery standards.
There are five distinct stages of the PIM process to be supported by the PIF:
1 - Strategic planning
The MDA will be required to set the direction of their organization for the next three years
through a strategic planning process. The MDA management will:
*  Analyze the external environment in which it operates.
*  Formulate/clarify their organization's mission and vision, set goals for and agree
on changes needed (Key Result Areas) to achieve the vision.
*  Undertake a ministerial public expenditure review in the context of sector
priorities and Key Results Areas.
*  Assess the extent to which current functions and activities match each MDA's
mission, vision and goals; identify poorly perfonming or duplicated
functions/activities; agree upon new functions and activities; and which ones
should be discontinued.
*  Define strategic performance indicators ("critical success factors") to monitor
progress and for public consultations and reporting purposes.
•  At the outset, collect baseline data that will provide a basis to set targets and
gauge future performance which can be regularly benchmarked.
*  Draft a strategic plan with an overview of the MDA's mandate, vision and
mission; and operating environment.
*  Communicate plans to stakeholders to ensure a common understanding of the
MDA's strategic direction. This would be done through focus groups or section
meetings or less formally through newsletters and other means. It will also be
published in the form of a social pact that will make clear the standards of
service delivery that stakeholders should expect.
2 - Annual planning and performance budgeting
On the basis of the strategic planning results, the MDA will:
*  Project expected outputs to achieve during the year, together with activities
required to achieve the outputs.
*  Prepare budgets for the activities. Priorities will be within the resource envelope
available from MOF.
*  Finalize plans and budget.
*  Develop in consultation with stakeholders and issue a 'iocial pact".
It will also be important at this stage that employees agree on how they will contribute to reaching
the objectives. This will be done by setting and agreeing objectives for each individual, based on
the Performance Review and Appraisal process whereby individual performance is linked with
each MDA's goals and objectives, and development needs and identified and planned for.



98
3 - Evaluation of plans and budgets
Plans and budgets, if they need to use PIF resources, will be evaluated by a team witl, the
responsibility and expertise to check the requirements. Therefore during this stage, MDAs will
submit plans and budgets to a central team responsible for the technical management of the -IF.
The evaluation team will develop a set of standard criteria for examining plans and budgets.
Once these plans and budgets have been assessed and funding levels approved, MDAs will be
required to make the necessary adjustments and prepare a cash flow plan indicating zash
requirements from the PIF within the coming year. They may then submit an application for PIF
financing.
4 - Execution of plans and budgets
During this stage MDAs will execute plans and budgets within the PIM framework. Specific
interventions that could be financed by PIF include:
•  Technical assistance (TA)/Consultancy services at all stages of the PIM process.
*  A contract recruitment scheme to ensure professional, technical and managerial
capacity.
*  The provision of incentive payments (Local Cost Compensation - LCC) to mid-
career technical and professional public servants within the medium-term targets
specified in the pay policy document.
•  The introduction of demand-driven training that focuses on equipping public
servants with up-to-date and result-oriented knowledge and skills.
The access to the PIF will be linked to the MDA developing a performance improvement plan
prior to any requests for capacity building to be considered. Further draw downs will be
contingent on clear improved performance against the identified key performance indicators. The
improvements will be benchmarked twice annually using an intemationally accepted balan,ed
score-card methodology.
5 - Monitoring, evaluation and reporting
Both during the year and at year-end, methods used to monitor and evaluate performance cciuld
include:
*  Self-assessment by the senior-management team using a variety of tools.
*  Monthly review sessions where the MDAs' management provide updates )n
implementation actions.
•  Repeat service delivery surveys and other participatory approaches to ass,. ss
customer satisfaction.
*  Impact assessment studies of new implemented policies and procedures.
•  Financial and value-for-money audits by the OCAG.
•  Staff appraisals.
MDAs will maintain adequate documentation to support the results of the M&E process. In
addition, MDAs will demonstrate commitment and learning through continuous improvement b ':



99
*  Reporting to key stakeholders on their performance (success and areas for
improvements) with respect to achieving key results highlighted during the
annual planning and budget process.
*  Providing comments and action plans resulting from  audits and reviews
undertaken during the period.
*  Disseminating results to the appropriate level within the MDA and outside for
follow-up and action.
*  Recognizing and rewarding individual performance and sanctioning lack of
performance.
*  Improving procedures to accommodate feedback from monitoring functions.
*  Reviewing plans to ascertain whether decisions made during the previous
planning stage are still appropriate, and make adjustments as necessary.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
A Performance Management Unit (PMU) will be established in the Management Services
Directorate, Civil Service Department. The primary role of PMU will be to provide technical
assistance and guidance to MDAs in the implementation of the PIM. The unit will also support
directly the planning and budgetary stages of the PIM process. Specific activities to be
undertaken by the PMU will include:
*  Creating awareness of performance management in Ministries through
information sessions and training.
*  Distributing application forms and guidance needed to lodge requests for
financing from the PIF and verifying and processing applications for funding.
*  Supporting procurement by MDAs.
*  Developing checklists to guide the IWG in the evaluation of annual plans,
applications for financing and performance reports received from MDAs.
*  Providing operational guidance to MDAs during the implementation of the PIM.
*  Managing a central contract recruitment payroll, including authorizing monthly
additions and deletions of personnel; and disbursements to MDAs.
*  Authorizing approved disbursements from the PIF.
*  Providing regular progress reports on MDAs' results with respect to PIF-financed
activities to the PS, CSD and the IWG.
There will be adequate segregation of duties to counterbalance the centralization of administrative
processes in the PMU and ensure the PIF is safeguarded. Therefore, officers involved in
verification and procurement activities in the PMU will not manage the fund.
A PIF Accounting Unit will be responsible for the following aspects of fund management:
*  Estimating annual financing needs identified during the annual planning and
budgeting process (Stage 2 of the annual PIM process), and matching them
against amounts to be made available.
*  Consolidating cash flow projections received from MDAs at the end of Stage 3
(Evaluations of plans and budgets).
*  Managing the PIF account including maintaining a cash book and reconciling
bank statement against cash book balances.
•  Maintaining a suitable management information system to allow for recording,
tracking, monitoring and evaluating PIF flows.



100
* Making authorized payments from the PIF account to MDAs.
* Ensuring that adequate financial controls are in place to maintain propriety and
proper accountability for expenditure.
* Designing standard formats for filing reporting returns.
* Collecting and consolidating returns from MDAs.
* Reporting periodically on fund flows for management's use and audit purposes.
Development of Forward Budget Ceiling
There will be an annual limit on the total funding available from the PIF. This overall ceiling will
be communicated to all MDAs and will result in increased competition among MDAs for
resources. In this regard, there will be an annual process for setting overall allocations. Once
CSD has determined the level of financial support that is likely to be made available to fund the
various PIF applications, it will be important to allocate resources against possible uses with a
view to setting aggregate amounts to be disbursed for each cycle. This would be within the
framework of the annual Government budget.
Accounting and Reporting
Accounting for the PIF and other PSRP funds will follow eventually the Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI).
The regular accounting reports that will be beneficial to management include the following:
* Annual financing requirements by MDA and type of resource.
* Deposits received into the PIF by type of donor.
* Disbursements made by MDA and type of release.
* Allocations utilized during a period or in the year to date.
* Stage reached at which MDAs is receiving financing.
* Impact of PIF financing on services provided by MDAs (e.g., impr:cved
customer satisfaction ratings and processing time).
* Schedule of any backlogs, in terms of approved applications for which the ie is
no funding available.



101
Annex 14: Fiscal Framework for Pay Reform and Feasibility of Program
Implementation
Tanzania: Public Service Reform Program (Phase 1)
Introduction
For most developing countries, the nexus between fiscal instability and weak macroeconomic
performance, on one hand, and the relatively high cost of the public service, on the other, is well
established. With reference to African economies, Lindauer observes that: politically directed
and uncontrolled expansion of the role and functions of governnent and/or public sector
employment, giving rise to high wage bill in the public expenditure framework, was a major
factor in the large fiscal deficits that characterized the economies in the 1980s6. These fiscal
deficits, according to Easterly and Schmidt-Hebbel, received much of the blame for the assorted
economic ills that beset these and other developing countries in that period: over-indebtedness
and the debt crisis, high inflation, and poor investment perfonnance and growth.7 In this context,
it is important to assess the fiscal implications of the PSRP from two perspectives. Firstly, can the
program costs be afforded without jeopardizing the government's medium term fiscal and
macroeconomic goals? Secondly, what are the prospects for the program sustainability in the long
term?
These questions are pertinent in the context that PSRP is an expensive undertaking, in terms of
both investment and recurrent costs. The program's investment costs in the medium term (five
years) are estimated at a total of US$177 million, including US$92 million for compensating
retrenched government employees over the period. This level of investment in PSRP is
significantly high; calculated at an average of about US$35.4 million over the five years, it
amounts to nearly nine percent of the total public investment program (development budget) in
FY 1999/2000. However, this annex addresses the fiscal implications and sustainability of the
PSRP only with regard to the recurrent costs of the program.
The fiscal implications of the investment costs are not pertinent to the discussion in this annex for
two reasons. First, the economic and financial justification are discussed elsewhere, in annex 4.
Second, a relatively high rate of return to such investnent has been independently demonstrated
in the previous phase of the reform program, and, the level of investment in this phase is not
significantly higher than that in the previous phase. Since 1996, GOT has expended a total of
about US$130 million on the CSRP. The bulk of these funds (about US$100 million) have been
utilized for compensating retrenched employees. The retrenchment funds have been readily
contributed by a number of bilateral donors on the basis of the demonstrated high financial return
on these expenditures, and efficient, transparent and proper accounting for the fimds8. For this
purpose, the donors have established a joint retrenchment fuid account, through which the funds
6 Lindauer D.L., "Government pay and employment policies and economic performance " in Lindauer D. L.
& Nunberg B. (ed.), "Rehabilitating Government: Pay and Employment Reform in Africa',' The World
Bank (1994).
'Easterly W. & Schmidt-Hebbel K., "Fiscal Deficits and Macroeconomic Performance in Developing
Countries ", Research Observer, Volume 8, Number 2, The World Bank, (November 1993).
8Department for International Development, "Economic and Financial Assessment of the Tanzania CSRP
Retrenchment Program", report by Coopers & Lybrand (1996).



102
are channeled. Therefore the funding of the program investment costs are virtually assured by
donors as the Govermment remains committed to the program. Also the economic and financial
justification for the program has been amply demonstrated.
On the other hand, the recurrent costs of the PSRP are predominantly attributable to the rise in the
Government wage bill that will be necessary to implement the public service pay ref:nrm policy.
These costs will be substantial and have to be funded from the government's domestic revenue.
At the same time, the sustainable funding of these costs is critical to the program success because
the implementation of the pay reform policy is a central plank of the PSRP medium-ter.m strategy.
For reasons elaborated later in this annex, the main thrust of the new public service pay policy is
to focus and commit the Governmuent to rapid enhancement of pay for technical and professional
cadres of the civil service. The policy also targets to raise the salary decompression ratio from
about 21 today to about 30 by the medium term (about five years) with top pay in the c:ivil service
at about US$ 3,000 equivalent. Furthermore, specific targets for medium term pay enhanceraent
by grades would be defined on the basis of the on-going job evaluation and grading exercise. The
diagnostic phase of this exercise has, for example, confirmed the need to develop a new salary
structure with fewer grades9.
In this context, the exact costs of pay reform in the medium term have not been confirmed. The
ongoing evaluation and regrading exercise will reveal the exact need and scope for enhancing pay
for various grades. Nonetheless, in the public service pay policy paper adopted by the Cabinet, it
was stipulated that implementation of the policy would require the Government to raise the wage
bill share of the GDP from the current 4.4 percent to 4.9 percent, the level it was in FY 1996/97.
The requirement to raise the wage bill share of the GDP is against a backdrop of measures by the
Government in recent years to control and reduce the share. Until FY1995/96, official statisAics
suggested that the wage bill share of the GDP was about 4 percent. The macroeconormiz
adjustment programs articulated for maintaining the wage bill at that level. Howeve.r, in :FY
1995/96, the wage bill share of the GDP was allowed to rise to 5.1 percent, and in real terms the
total wage bill rose by 12.2 percent (see Table 1). In the following year, there was again a 2.9
percent real increase in the wage bill, but the wage bill share of the GDP dropped to 4.9 perc nit.
The relatively high wage bill share of the GDP in FY 1996/97 was explained by the policy
objective pursued in those two years to achieve the consolidation of allowances into a ba,ic
salary, in which enhancement of salaries and the wage bill were unavoidable. Hence, thereaft er,
Government has in fact achieved reductions in the real value of the wage bill (see Table 1).
The negative impact of the reductions on real wage bill levels in the last two fiscal years were: in
part cushioned by reductions in the Government workforce (see Table 1). But as elaborated in tais
annex, the option of downsizing the workforce to facilitate either control of the wage bill level or
enhancement of public service pay is closing at the margins. Therefore, as stipulated in the publ ic
service pay policy Government will, in the medium term, have to raise the wage bill (as percent of
GDP) to implement the public service pay.
'The issues of fiscal implications of the PSRP may therefore be paraphrased in the context of
affordability and sustainability of the new public service pay policy. More explicitly, will tfie
Government raise the wage bill to 4.9 percent of GDP in the medium tern? Further, does tLe
9 KPMCi Peatmarwick Consultants, "Tanzania Civil Service Job Evaluation and Regrading Study" 'Octob'.r
1998).



103
Government have the political commitment to effect the policy shift so that there will be a more
rapid enhancement of pay for technical and professional grades? Moreover, are these policy
measures sustainable in the long term? In answering these questions, a historical perspective on
fiscal developments and public service employment pay trends has relevance.
Table 1: Annual Real Changes in the Government Wage Bill and Employment,
FY 1994/95 - 1998/99
Fiscal Year  Wage Bill Wage Bill    Annual %   Annual  Annual %       Real Change in
(in Tshs   Share of the   Change in the  Inflation  Change in the   Government.
B)       GDP          Nominal      Rate     Real Wage Bill  Employment
Wage Bill
1994/95    109.7        4.0%            -        -              -
1995/96    156.1        5.1%        42.3%    29.1%          12.2%         -9.6%
1996/97    199.2        4.9%        27.6%    24.7%           2.9%         -1.5%
1997/98    218.8        4.6%         9.8%    16.7%          -6.9%         -3.8%
1998/99    218.0        4.4%         0.0%    14.8%         -14.8%         -2.3%
Source: Civil Service Department, United Republic of Tanzania.
A Historical Context
The impetus for the public service reform in Tanzania, as has been generally the case elsewhere,
was the realization that the country's fiscal crisis was underpinned by excessive expansion of
government role, functions and employment. It has been estimated that during the first three
decades following independence in 1961, employment in government service recorded an average
annual growth rate of 8.6 percent, from nearly 90,000 to about 300,000 employeesI0. Thus, over
an extended period (and particularly in the second half of the period) public service employment
was expanding at roughly twice the rate the Government's domestic revenues were growing. Had
the expansion of the Government's payroll been held to the same rate of growth as the revenue
base, instead of reaching 302,000 in 1984, the public service would have employed only 210,000
persons.11
The growth in employment numbers exacerbated severe erosion in real wages and salaries for
civil servants when economic decline set in late 1970s and the early 1980s. In constant prices, it
is estimated that, on average, direct pay for civil servants in 1990 was only about 25 percent of the
levels in 1972 (see Figure 1).
10 S. Odunga et al, "Employment Systems and Need for Policy in the Civil Service", Project on
Redeployment of Human Resources in Tanzania (unpublished, p.23) (1992).
" The World Bank, "Tanzania Public Expenditure Review" (1991).



104
Figure 1: CHANGES IN MINIMUM WAGE & INCOME FOR GOVERNMENT
EMPLOYEES IN TANZANIA, 1969-1993 (SELECT YEARS)
35,000                      .     .      ,.
30,000                           Nominal M      ge
25,000     -Z.TotlNoiahIcm
D 20,                            X g    , ffi   Real Income 1994=100    m
10 crO |0g||i    
5'000       f f    -.-
B  agaN9yb ,X4>9,OR0>,',a,-PA,9t,.q>9ee vb    Year
On the other hand, it was never like GOT was spending a disproportionate share of its budgetary
resources on the wage bill, compared to, for example, other countries in Sub-Saharan Afiica
(SSA). In fact, for most of the 1980s, wages and salaries costs as a percentage of total governnrent
expenditure and net lending were for Tanzania (at 18.6 percent in 1980 and 24.8 percent in 1986)
considerably lower than the average for all SSA, at 27.8 percent and 26.7 percent in 1980 and
1986 respectively (Table 2). But, these lower budget allocations resulted in the steady decline of
the purchasing power of the civil service wages and salaries. The fall in real wages was however
more dramatic for Tanzania, which recorded a 60 percent fall, for the first half of 1980s compared
to, for example 20 percent for Togo, and 40 percent for Kenyal2. Therefore, in recent years
increasing the allocation of budgetary resources to wages and salaries has been a strongly argued
option in tackling the problem of erosion of civil service pay in Tanzanial 3.
Table 2: Comparison of Civil Service Wages & Salaries As Percentage of Total Governmelit
Expenditure and Net Lending for Tanzania and Select SSA Countries, 1980-88
Country       1980   1981   1982  1983        1984     1985     1986     1987      1988
Tanzania      18.6   21.1   20.4  22.9        22.3     25.6     24.8      19.2    1 18.2
SSA           27.4    27.1   26.8  27.6       27.7     27.3     25.3     25.5     N.PX
excluding
Nigeria    _ _l__ll
Malawi        12.9    13.9   19.8   19.3      18.2     17.6     17.8     20.7   I)' 8
Zimbabwe      30.7    30.0   25.7  26.1       24.4     24.2     25.3     26.4      32 8
Zambia       l 22.4    32.9   29.6   31.4     30.7     25.6     22.3     25.8      222     l
Kenya        | 25.3    27.2   27.6  31.1    | 31.7     29.7    | 33.7    31.5      32 0
Source: UNDP/The World Bank, Africa Economic & Financial Data 1992
This recent advocacy for raising Government spending on the wage bill is significant against, f6r
example, the observations in the public expenditure review (PER) carried out by the World Bark
mission in 1989. This PER report emphasized the severity of the limitations on the budgeta:ty
12 Vandemoortele J, "Employment and Civil Service in Africa", The World Bank, (1991).
13 Kiragu K., "Tanzania Civil Service Pay Policy Issues and Options", in National Symposium on Civil
Service Reform in Tanzania, (Rugumamu, Ed) University of Dar es Salaam, (January 1998).



105
option to salary enhancement for the civil service. In particular, the PER analysis showed that,
"even if the long-term growth of real revenues and expenditures is 5 percent (corresponding to a
4.5 percent trend growth of GDP), the civil service is frozen at its present level, and no further
budget restructuring occurs:
i)     with incremental resources allocated to wages and other charges in the present proportion
(i.e., keeping a constant PE ratio) it would take over 35 years to restore public service pay
to the level of the mid 1970s;
ii)    if allocation of additional revenues is biased towards wages until the average PE ratio has
risen to 50 percent, it would take 23 years to restore pay" 14.
Improved Prospects for Sustainable Public Service Pay Reform
In recent years, however, the prospects for sustainable public service pay reform have vastly
improved in the context of three major developments:
* a much improved fiscal framework;
* substantial downsizing of Government workforce; and
* progress in pay reform under the civil service reform program.
A Much Improved Fiscal Framework in Recent Years
Tanzania's fiscal framework has improved considerably in recent years. Until FY 1996/97, fiscal
deficits were the norm for a long period extending back to the 1970s. In the previous two FYs,
1994/95 and 1995/96, the overall deficit was at levels of 5.9 percent and 2.2 percent respectively.
An overall fiscal surplus of 2 percent of GDP was realized in FY 1996/97 (see Table 3).
Surpluses have also been attained in FYs 1997/98 (0.9 percent) and 1998/99 (3.2 percent). The
fiscal discipline attained since 1996/97 budget has restored confidence among Tanzania's external
development partners and triggered actions such as the approval of an ESAF by IMF, a SAC by
IDA, a SAL by AFDB and a fifth debt rescheduling by the Paris Club. Further, as elaborated later
in this annex, the fiscal framework should in the next year receive a boost from debt relief under
heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC) initiative.
14 The World Bank (1991), ibid.



106
Table 3: Fiscal Developments 1995196 - 2001/02 (Tshs Billion)
Fiscal Variable                  1995/96     1996197  1997/98  1998/99
Total Domestic Revenue           448.4       572.0    619.1    722.8
Total Expenditure                596.0       638.6    730.3    796.5
Recurrent Expenditure            474.6       528.3    543.8    646.5
Debt Service                     112.6       111.0    101.2    118.4
Wages and Salaries               156.1       199.2    218.8    231.6
Other                            205.9       218.1    223.8    296.5
Development Expenditure          121.4       110.3    186.6    150.0
Memo Items:
Domestic Revenue/GDP (%)         13.2        13.5      12.6     13.0
Total Expenditure/GDP (%)        17.6        15.1      14.8     14.4
Fiscal balance(after grants)/GDP (%) -2.2    2.0      0.9       3.2
GDP-Tshs bn
3394.1     4235.6   4929.5   5532.1
Substantial Downsizing of the Government Workforce
The Government has achieved significant reduction in civil service manning levels over
the last five years. Compared with employment of 355,000 in 1992, the workforce now stands at
about 260,000. To some extent this has occurred through natural attrition. In the main, however,
it has been accomplished through retrenchment (68,000) and the elimination of "ghost" workers
(20,000) from the payroll. With the notable exception of Uganda, this achievement has no parallel
in sub-Saharan Africa. Today, by regional standards Tanzania's public service employmenrt is
broadly equivalent to the levels prevailing in Uganda and substantially lower than in Kenya ('see
Table 4). Therefore, the scope for downsizing the Government workforce in Tanzania as a policy
option to control growth of the wage bill and/or enhance civil service pay has considerN.b1y
diminished, although in current FY 1999/2000 has targeted for 7,000 reduction in the workfo:ce.
Table 4: Relative Size of the government workforce
in East African Countries (Select years, mid-1990s and late 1990s)
Country      Population   General Govt   General Govt
(million)*    Workforce**    Workforce to
(000)      Population (%)
Tanzania       29.6         274           0.9
Uganda         19.2         167           0.9
Kenya          26.7         445            1.7
Note: *Mid-1995 estimates
** 1997 estimates. Figures includes the teaching and hospital services.
Source: The World Bank Tanzania Public Expenditure Review, May 1998.
Progress in Pay Reform under the Civil Service Reform Program
Reform of public service pay, in terms of rationalizing and developing a transparent and equitatxle
compensation system, enhancing salaries and facilitating wage bill planning and contiol was a
specific component of the CSRP when it was launched in FY1993/94. The progress made in these



107
in the pay reform since then has provided a solid basis for launching the new public service pay
policy. This progress is significant in the following respects:
*  substantial increases in real pay for a majority of civil servants between FY1993/94
and FY 1996/97;
*  rationalization and decompression of the salary structure; and
*  attaining control of the wage bill.
Substantial increases in real pay for a majority of civil servants between 1993194 and
1996/97: Generally, since the onset of economic recovery in the second half of the 1980s,
Government has tried to enhance pay for civil servants (see Figure 1 above, and Figure 2 below).
The level of increases however substantially raised during the period FY 1993/94-1996/97. In that
period, the real average salary for civil servants rose by 75 percent.
However, this increase was considerably skewed in favor of the lower salary grades for two
reasons. First, since 1960s and until the adoption by Cabinet of the new Medium Term Pay Policy
in January 1999, Government pay policy was strongly egalitarian. Second, a significant element
of the salary enhancement in FY 1995/96 went into compensating civil servants for consolidation
of allowances and in-kind benefits into the salary structure. As a matter of fact, a significant
number of senior civil servants who until then were enjoying a disproportionate share of the non-
transparent benefits ended with a lower take-home compensation following the consolidation. But
the majority of the civil servants gained substantially from the 12.2 percent increase in the wage
bill because the impact of the wage bill rise was enhanced by a 9.6 percent reduction in the
number of those on the Government payroll in the same year. Thus in the period under
discussion, the minimum basic salary for government employees rose by about 40 percent in real
terms (see Figure 2 below).
Rationalization and decompression of the salary structure: Over the years, the erosion of real
pay was more severe for the more senior civil servants because the government's egalitarian
policy formulated in 1967 resulted in higher salary adjustments for the lower cadres. There was
therefore, progressive compression of the civil service salary scales throughout the 1970s and
1980s15. By mid 1970s, the civil service salary compression ratio for Tanzania, at 10.9, was
rather low compared to other SSA countries, at an average of 17.2 (for a sample of seventeen
countries), and considerably lower compared to that for neighboring Kenya and Uganda, at 28.0
and 34.2 respectively. Tanzania's ratio further dropped over the next ten years, to 8.9. The SSA
ratio had dropped to 13.5 by 1985 (Table 5). Therefore, Tanzania's ratio was still significantly
lower than other SAA countries. The ratio had deteriorated to as low as 6.3 at the end of 1991. 16
15 Mushi R. Wangwe S., "Review of Comparative Compensation Policies in Tanzania", report for the World
Bank (unpublished) (April 1991)
16 Kiragu K., "Tanzania Civil Service Pay and Employment Issues", consultant report for the World Bank
(August 1992).



108
Figure 2: CHANGES IN REAL TERMS OF THE MINIMUM
PAY IN TANZANIA FOR GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES,
25,000                1990 1998
20,000
15,000  
5,000   2i
YeWr        K
In terms of real take-home pay, however, the salary compression ratio never changed much
for many civil servants who benefited from various non-salary benefits, in the form of allowanices
and in-kind benefits. These allowances and benefits were not shared transparently and equii:ably
between employees. Besides distorting the salary compensation system, these allowances were a
source of many problems, including abating tax evasion and rendering the wage bill out of
control1 7. Yet the allowances kept proliferating over the years. It is for these reasons that i]iJ FY
1996/97, 36 inequitably and non-transparently awarded allowances were elirminatedl or
consolidated into the revised salary structure. At the same time, the salary structures vere
rationalized with 196 grades under 23 scales reduced to 45 grades under four scales, easing; the
horizontal and vertical in equities. In the process of consolidating allowances into pay and
constructing a more transparent and equitable salary structure, the decline in the sa.Lary
compression ratio has been reversed to a level that is more consistent with the goal of
compensating employees on the basis of competence and level of responsibility. Today, the il tio
stands at about 1:21.
7 Kiragu K. & Mushi R., Tanzania Civil Service Reform Program: "Monetization of Benefits ancl Pay
Reform Proposals" report to Civil Service Department and the World Bank (unpublished) (1993).



109
Table 5: Civil Service Salary Compression Ratio
(highest to lowest starting salary) for Selected Countries
in SSA, 1975 and 1985.
Country                     1975           1985        % Change
Tanzania                     10.5            8.9          -18.3%
Kenya                        28.0          32.4           +15.7%
Uganda                       34.2           12.0          -64.9%
Zimbabwe                     41.7           16.1          -61.4%
Average for SSA              17.2           13.5          -21.4%
Source: Mushi R.& Wangwe S., Review of Comparative Compensation
Policies in Tanzania April 1991 (Unpublished).
Attaining control of the wage bill: A few years ago, the wage bill was one key fiscal variable
which for Tanzania was impossible to reliably forecast, manage and control. However, a
combination of three sets of measures under the CSRP has enabled the Government to achieve
effective control of the wage bill. The first set of measures may be described generally as
establishment and payroll controls that have ensured effective checks against unauthorized
changes in personnel numbers and remuneration. The second set is the effective downsizing of the
service through retrenchment of redundant personnel. The third set of measures consisted of the
elimination of the non-transparent and largely uncontrolled elements of the wage bill, i.e., non-
salary allowances and benefits, some of which were consolidated into an enhanced basic salary in
FYs 1995/96 and 1996/97.
Government Has Embarked on Implementation of the Medium-Term Pay Policy
Against the above background, Government has, in FY 1999/2000, embarked on the
implementation of the new Medium-Term Pay Policy. This policy measure is significant in two
important respects. Firstly, Government has demonstrated a strong commitment to adjust the
medium-term fiscal framework to facilitate the implementation of the policy. The Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) presented to Cabinet with'the draft budget framework in April
1999 had indicated that the Government would adopt a cautious approach in pursuit of the policy
targetsl8. In this framework, the wage bill share of the GDP in FY 1999/2000 would have been
4.4. percent (same level as FY 1998/99) 19 However, in the final budget figures, Government
provided fully for effective launch of implementation of the new policy, with a wage bill budgeted
at 4.9 percent of the GDP.
Secondly, in this policy measure, Government has demonstrated political courage and
commitment in shifting from the historical egalitarian and populist policy of favoring higher
salary increases for unskilled staff, which compresses the salary structure. As earlier pointed out,
the central thrust of the medium term pay reform strategy is to achieve rapid enhancement in pay
18 Valentine, T.R., "Proposals for the Implementation of the Tanzania Public Service Medium Term Pay
Reform Policy", report to Civil Service Department (unpublished) (May 1999),
9 Planning CommissionlURT, "Recent Macroeconomic Developments and Outlook for the MTEF Period".
An overview, paper presented at the Public Expenditure Review FY 1999 Consultative Meeting, Dar Es
Salaam. (unpublished) (April 1999).



110
for the middle salary grade cadres (where the technical and professional staff are) while protecting
the purchasing power of the lower cadres on the Government salary structure. In Table 6 below,
changes in pay levels following the launch of the policy implementation are illustrated:
*  salaries for middle to senior grades (TGs 3-12) have been raised by 45-53 percent;
*  salaries for the lower grades have been raised by 13-17 percent;
*  salaries for top civil servants have been raised by 34-55 percent; and
*  the salary compression ratio improves from 15.7 to 20.7.
Table 6: Changes in Government of Tanzania Monthly Pay Levels in
FY 1999/2000 for Select Grades (Amounts in TShs 000s)
Salary Grades Selected        1998199       1999/2000  Percentage
Actual       MTEFd   Increase in Pay
based
salary
Minimum Basic Salary Grade    35.0          41.0      17%
Middle Level Grade TGS 9      83.6          126.2     51%
Upper Middle Level Grade TGS15  217.2       293.2     35%
Top Base Salary TGS23         550.0         850.0     55%
Sustainability Prospects
The Government's minimum salary has been about twice as high as the statutory minimum
salary prescribed for private sector employers. Also, this minimum Government pay in Tanzania
happens to be high compared that in most other countries in the SSA region (see Table 7).
Therefore, there are good reasons why Government can for the medium tenn maintain salaries at
the bottom (unskilled) levels just at about the current real value while pursuing the mecium term
policy targets. Then at the current wage bill share of the GDP, it will be readily fi-asible to
achieve these targets in the medium term.
Table 7: Minimum Government Monthly Pay in Tanzania Compared to Other Select
Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, (end of 1998)
Country       Local         Monthly       Local         Monthly        Note
Currency      Minimum Pay  Currency       Minimum Pay
in Local      Exchange     in US Dollar
Currency      Rate/US       Equivalent
(December     Dollar
1998)
Tanzania      Shilling      37,500        600           63 .
Kenya         Shilling      3,100         56            55             **
Uganda        Shilling      46,000        1300          35               _      ._ _
** Note:   Monthly minimum pay includes a 20 percent adjustment for possible house amd
other non-salary allowances.



111
With regard to sustainability, it is also significant that the current medium-term fiscal framework
and pay reform scenarios are considered to be conservative. There are good indications of
significantly improved fiscal performance, that would enhance the feasibility of more rapid
enhancement and decompression of salaries, in the medium to long term. Firstly, there are good
prospects for significant increases in domestic revenue. At present, domestic revenue is about 12-
13 percent of GDP, considerably below that in neighboring Kenya (about 24 percent) and Uganda
(about 17 percent). It is therefore noteworthy that the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) has
planned to raise the revenue to GDP ratio from 12.7 percent in FY 1999/2000 to 15.8 percent in
FY 2004/05.
Secondly, Tanzania's fiscal prospects may also receive a boost in the coming years from
substantial debt relief. The country is one of the heavily indebted poor countries (HIPC). Its total
external debt is estimated at over US$ 7 billion, equivalent to about 120 percent of the Gross
National Product (GNP). Debt servicing in FY 1998/99 accounted for 36.7 percent of the total
domestic revenue. In 1997, the Paris Club of official bilateral creditors, to which the country
owes almost one-third of its external debt, agreed to write off US$ 1 billion of debt falling due in
three years to November 1999, and to reschedule the remainder over 23 years. Now Tanzania has
high hopes for admission to the World Bank/IMF initiative of debt relief for H[PC that have
some three years of track record of implementing rigorously an IMF-backed structural adjustment
program. Tanzania has fulfilled that condition.






MAP SECTION






*   38  UG-- % 3- 3_ DA- .                                                                                                                                         4046
(   RWANDA   -   ;                                          ;                        A           :                        KENYA
K                                   ~~~~~~~~~~Natron
ffi   BURUNDIS           P  v   s'0                            1                                                                             ___________h ' Moshi
hinyanga               L          t'  Lake
I 1  ,Ž4r K                      ...M- ts. R                         ManyJ ra
(Kiom(                  ms      JTabora                    .Singid(.
The bovodaries, colors,'                          ' - E         Mbeya            -ef          +    1    ,<          4                  }                               \   .:   OC£AIQ   - -
other information shown               t    B >       ~    <$$                                          -        /4<    v   fifj                         >~~
on Li  a do  notr
imply, oo the part a _./o X  f  ,..-..:..
The Wo/rld Book Groop,i                                                                                 -v                                                                 J
aoy jurdgmoot an the lepol                                                          e.'                                             ;<        
stT        g af any it                                                           . ..e. .
to, ondorins.T                            N      A     I                                              ;.,e       0     ,,,tr,                                              id;.l^
----MAIN ROADS                  ®+   REGION CAPITALS                     ..-                              A t                f     i'                    +
+'-  RA1LROADS                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                           A ,- ., '. -.... 
->-' RIVERS                 V               .REGION BOUNDARIES                  ..     .......           .      .        .        -iSongea  -      -. *. NI' !iVIAvpkR4  
2m- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                          i                      ,f R.
Lake~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
T           .                          O             too           200                                                 . .,/                                                                   .       . ., 
.thi=  .p   d.   -t                                                                                      *'/ .
'C)3                                              KILOrOETEtIO                                                          363                                    &OZAMBIQUE                         .': 0
.h, I' l_-1 ,G,,-p,=
'0                3M~~~'h                                                                                         3M                               S
0'    i~mf-    e,iey



