Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3300-TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Service Reform Project)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 20, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3300-TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 2000, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated October 28, 1999, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote the carrying out by the Borrower of a program (the Program) for the 
sustainable structural and institutional reform of the public service in the 
Borrower’s territories and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of eleven years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for executing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“MDAs” means the Borrower’s ministries, departments and agencies; 
(b)
“Executive Agencies” means executive agencies established by the Borrower 
pursuant to the Executive Agencies Act, No. 30 of 1997, of the laws of the Borrower; 
(c)
“CSD” means the Borrower’s Civil Service Department within the Borrower’s 
Office of the President; 
(d)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(e)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(f)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association and the Borrower on October 23, 1997 and November 13, 1997, 
and October 15, 1999 and October 27, 1999, respectively; 
(g)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(h)
“IMTC” means the Borrower’s Inter-Ministerial Technical Coordination 
Committee, consisting of Permanent Secretaries, and referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“IWG” means the Borrower’s Inter-Ministerial Working Group, referred to 
in Section I, paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“PIM” means the Performance Improvement Model referred to in Part A (2) 
of the Project; 
(k)
“PIF” means the Performance Improvement Fund referred to in Part A (5) of 
the Project; 
(l)
“DLC” means the Distance Learning Center referred to in Part G of the 
Project; 
(m)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan, adopted by the Borrower on 
October 7, 1999, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section III of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, containing, inter alia, work plans, training plans, and monitoring and 
performance indicators to be used for the purposes of implementation of the Project, 
as may be amended from time to time, in consultation with the Association, and such 
term includes any schedules to the PIP; 
(n)
“Project Year” means the 12-month period beginning from the Effective 
Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12-month period following 
thereafter; and  
(o)
“IFM” means the Institute of Finance Management, a statutory body 
Page  3
established pursuant to the Institute of Finance Management Act, No. 3 of 1992. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-nine million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars in a commercial bank two special deposit accounts, namely: (i) a special 
deposit account for Parts A through F of the Project (the MDA Special Account), and 
(ii) a special deposit account for Part G of the Project (the DLC Special Account). 
Each of the Special Accounts shall be on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April 1 and October 1, commencing April 1, 2010 and ending October 1, 2039. Each 
Page  4
installment to and including the installment payable on October 1, 2019 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and public service reform practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a)
prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and (b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  5
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Accounts, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report; 
Page  6
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has prepared detailed guidelines, satisfactory to the 
Association, to be utilized in developing the PIM and for operations under the PIF; 
(b)
the Borrower has installed a financial management and accounting system 
for the Project, satisfactory to the Association; 
(c)
the Borrower has established in CSD a team, with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for the monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project; and 
(d)
the Borrower has prepared guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, 
setting out the policies and procedures for the implementation of local cost 
compensation as part of the PIF. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable Address:
Telex:
Page  7
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Oey Meesook
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
100%
services and training:
(a) Under Parts A
  22,300,000
through F
of the Project
(b) 
Under Part G 
    100,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods, equipment
100% of foreign
and vehicles:
expenditures and
Page  8
80% of local
expenditures
(a) 
Under Parts A
  2,700,000
through F of the Project
(b) 
Under Part G 
     50,000
of the Project
(3)
Civil works:
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(a)
Under Parts A
   150,000
through F of the Project
(b)
Under Part G 
    50,000
of the Project
(4)
Incremental operating
costs:
(a)
Under Parts A
 1,300,000
90%
through F
of the Project
(b)
Under Part G 
   400,000
80% during 2000,
of the Project
60% during 2001, and
40% during 2002
(5)
Refunding of
 2,150,000
Amount due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
  700,000
TOTAL
      29,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental costs 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, equipment maintenance, communication costs, vehicle operation, travel 
and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil 
service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services provided by firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each and for consultants’ services provided by individuals under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  9
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve efficiency in the management 
of public expenditures; (ii) strengthen public service capacity for the management of 
economic growth and poverty reduction; (iii) improve the delivery of services to meet 
with public expectations of value, satisfaction and relevance; (iv) improve 
accountability, transparency and resource management in service delivery; and (v) test 
the effectiveness and sustainability of the DLC as a knowledge-sharing network which 
can strengthen the capacity of officials and managers in the public and private 
sectors to design, plan and manage economic and social development.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Performance Improvements 
1.
Carrying out of a strategic process to facilitate the decentralization of the 
MDAs and the expansion of a range of institutions to move service improvements closer 
to the public, through the provision of technical advisory services and training. 
2.
Development and strengthening of the operational, organizational and management 
capacities of the MDAs, including the installation of a PIM, to improve their delivery 
of services and assist in promoting accountability in the execution of their plans and 
budgets. 
3.
Promotion of the strategic use of available public financial resources, through 
the implementation of the PIM. 
4.
Improvement of linkages among sector reforms through the formulation of 
strategic plans of the MDAs.
5.
Establishment of a centrally-managed PIF to: (i) support the implementation of 
the PIM; and (ii) provide resources for the strengthening of the capacity of the MDAs.
Part B:
Restructuring of the MDAs and Private Sector Participation
Carrying out of the Borrower’s reforms for the restructuring and 
decentralization of the MDAs, including measures to facilitate and assist in: (i) the 
transfer of functions, services and operations among institutions; (ii) the 
contracting out of non-critical services; (iii) the divestiture and privatization of 
services and facilities not needed in the public domain; and (iv) the redeployment of 
surplus staff.
Part C:
Executive Agencies Program 
Establishment of Executive Agencies to be used to (i) demonstrate and pioneer 
results-oriented management of public services; and (ii) facilitate and assist in the 
decentralization of executive non-core functions remaining in the public domain.
Part D:
Management Information Systems
Strengthening the Borrower’s management information system, including: (i) the 
effective maintenance of payroll controls; (ii) provision of relevant and accurate 
information to public service managers and decision-makers; (iii) modernization of 
information and communications systems in the MDAs; (iv) the development of efficient 
and sustainable records management systems in the MDAs; (v) the introduction of an 
integrated computerized personnel and payroll system in the Borrower’s Civil Service 
Department (CSD) and the reinforcement in the CSD of existing controls; and (vi) the 
development of: (A) a policy and legal framework for the management of electronic 
records, and (B) a strategy for the implementation of said framework.
Part E:
Leadership, Management and Governance 
1.
Development of leadership and management skills of senior executives in the 
MDAs, through the provision of training in leadership and management skills.
Page  10
2.
Strengthening of the CSD through: (i) staff development, (ii) the improvement of 
CSD’s personnel skills and working environment; and (iii) the acquisition of 
equipment. 
3.
The establishment of a public service college specializing in management 
training.
4.
Training of public service personnel in private sector facilitation strategies, 
including: (i) customer service training; and (ii) training in improved communication 
between the private and public sectors.
5.
(a)
Implementation of merit-based policies in the MDAs, including: (i) the 
application of such policies to the recruitment and appointment of public service 
officers; (ii) the application of fair and open competition policies and procedures 
and merit-based non-discriminatory recruitment and selection criteria in the filling 
of vacancies, and promotion to positions, in the public service; (iii) the 
introduction in the MDAs of an open performance appraisal system; and (iv) the 
implementation of improved personnel management practices.
(b)
Strengthening ethical conduct of public service officials, including: 
(i) the implementation of the recommendations of the Report of the Presidential 
Commission of Enquiry on Anti-Corruption (Warioba Report); (ii) the application of an 
appropriate code of ethical conduct to all persons in the public service; (iii) the 
review of laws and regulations applicable to the public service in order to strengthen 
measures to counter unethical conduct in the public service; (iv) the carrying out of 
public awareness campaigns against such unethical conduct; and (v) the installation of 
appropriate mechanisms for handling complaints regarding such conduct.
6.
Carrying out of a program to increase gender sensitivity amongst public servants  
in the MDAs through: (i) the creation in all strategically placed personnel in the 
public service of an awareness of gender issues; (ii) the strengthening of the 
capacity of women in public service to take up the challenge and avail themselves of 
opportunities for upward career mobility; and (iii) the production of reports and 
information brochures on gender issues.
Part F:
Program Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of the CSD to serve as a focal point for the 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, including: (i) 
strengthening CSD’s capacity to monitor the PIM; (ii) the collection and analysis by 
the CSD of information on the various components of the Project and other reform 
programs; (iii) the development of the capacity of the MDAs to formulate and evaluate 
policies; (iv) the establishment of a baseline to be used in the assessment of the 
progress of the Program; (v) the provision of information on the Program; (vi) the 
dissemination to: (A) key stakeholders of the results of Program monitoring, and (B) 
the MDAs of the feedback of stakeholders’ comments; and (vii) the strengthening of the 
capacity of institutions at the center of Government to: (A) formulate and analyze 
policies, and (B) provide strategic leadership and coordinate reforms.
Part G:
Distance Learning Center
(a)
Establishment of a distance learning center to increase the access of the 
Borrower’s officials and private sector managers to global innovations and 
information.
(b)
Installation in the DLC of: (i) a video-conference room with about a 
30-person capacity; (ii) a computer room outfitted for about 30 computer stations; and 
(iii) a technical and administrative center, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training, auditing and evaluation services and the acquisition of 
vehicles and equipment. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  11
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part C, works, under Parts A 
through F of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per 
contract, goods under Parts A through F of the Project, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, and goods for Part G of the Project, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $190,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
3.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract which are 
readily available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines, provided that if such goods are not available locally, they may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Page  12
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract which are 
readily available off-the-shelf and cannot be grouped, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Organization of the United Nations in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods under Part G of the Project, for network access, video-conferencing and 
satellite band width rent and elevator rehabilitation which should be procured as an 
extension of an existing contract or must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of performance guarantee and costing $600,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and the first three works contracts, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The shortlist of consultants services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  13
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits of accounts under the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
The following shall be submitted to the Association for prior review and 
approval before the contracts to which they relate are awarded: (i) terms of reference 
for all consultant services; (ii) each single-source selection of consultants; (iii) 
drafts of each of the first three contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of more 
than $50,000; (iv) the selection procedures, shortlists and requests for proposals, 
qualifying technical proposals, final evaluation reports and draft contracts in any 
case in which the estimated cost of the contract exceeds the equivalent of (A) $50,000 
for an individual consultant, or (B) $100,000 for a consulting firm; (v) assignments 
of a critical nature (as reasonably determined by the Association) estimated to cost 
the equivalent of (A) $50,000 for an individual consultant, or (B) $100,000 for a 
consulting firm, and (vi) contract amendments raising the estimated cost of a contract 
over an amount equivalent to (A) $50,000 for an individual consultant, or (B) $100,000 
for a consulting firm. The related contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Section I:
Parts A through F of the Project 
Page  14
1.
(a)
The IMTC shall have responsibility for the overall coordination of the 
activities of Project implementing agencies. The IMTC is chaired by the Chief 
Secretary and includes all Permanent Secretaries. 
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain the Inter-Ministerial Working Group (IWG) in 
a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Association. The IWG shall 
be responsible for the technical coordination of all key public sector reform 
programs. The IWG shall be headed by the Permanent Secretary, CSD, and its membership 
shall include, inter alia, Deputy Permanent Secretaries, the Director of Policy (CSD), 
the Accountant-General, and the Commissioner for Local Government. The IWG shall meet 
at least once a month, and its decisions and recommendations shall be regularly 
forwarded to the IMTC for consideration at its meetings. 
2.
Each one of the MDAs shall be primarily responsible for the implementation of 
the public service reform measures pertaining to the MDA. The respective Permanent 
Secretaries and Chief Executives shall, to that end, be required to (i) specify, 
promulgate and manage with due diligence and efficiency their respective public reform 
measures and goals, and (ii) be individually accountable for progress in the carrying 
out of said reform measures.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that stakeholders and other Project beneficiaries 
participate (through social pacts, service delivery surveys, benchmarking and other 
appropriate instruments and means) in the definition and assessment of progress 
attained under the Project. 
4.
The Borrower shall carry out all training, workshops and study tours under the 
Project on the basis of programs which shall have been approved by the Association on 
a quarterly basis and which shall, inter alia, identify (a) the training, workshops 
and study tours envisaged, (b) the personnel to be trained, (c) the institution which 
will conduct the training, (d) the duration of the proposed training, and (e) an 
estimate of the cost.
Section II:
Part G of the Project 
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall, by March 31, 2000, for the purposes of Part G of the 
Project, establish the DLC, in a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to 
the Association. The DLC shall be responsible for the carrying out of Part G of the 
Project.  
(b)
The DLC shall be governed by a Board with membership and functions 
satisfactory to the Association. The Board’s membership shall include representatives 
of (i) the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Higher Education, and the CSD, (ii) 
academic institutions, (iii) the private sector, (iv) civil society, and (v) the 
Principal of the IFM. The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Chief 
Secretary, and the Director of the DLC shall act as Secretary to the Board. 
(c)
The DLC shall be located within the premises of the IFM.
(d)
The CSD shall be responsible for: (i) coordination of activities under 
Part G of the Project; (ii) ensuring the participation of the public and private 
sector interest groups and the donor community in the monitoring of the said Part of 
the Project, and (iii) training and development activities under Part G of the 
Project. 
(e)
The day-to-day management of the DLC shall be entrusted to a Director 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association. The Director of 
the DLC shall be assisted by a team, acceptable to the Association, consisting of a 
computer specialist with telecommunications knowledge, a facilitator/trainer, an 
experienced accountant, and an office assistant and support staff in adequate numbers.
2.
The Director of the DLC shall furnish to the Board of the DLC and to the 
Association for their review and approval: (i) no later than three months after the 
Effectiveness Date an initial business plan satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) 
thereafter by November 1 of each subsequent Project Year, an annual business plan 
satisfactory to the Association. The details of the financial component of said 
business plan shall include the operational costs to be financed under the Project as 
well as the capital mobilized by the DLC to meet the costs of the Project. The DLC 
Page  15
shall furnish to the Board of the DLC, no later than 30 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a report on the progress of the Project activities carried out by 
the DLC during said quarter. 
Section III.
Miscellaneous 
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the PIP and shall not amend the PIP or waive any 
provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, will materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about three months prior to the review referred to 
in paragraph (c) below, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than three years after the 
Effectiveness Date, or such later date as the Association shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) 
and (4) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with 
respect to the MDA Special Account, and Categories (1) (b), (2) (b), (3) (b) and (4) 
(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect 
to the DLC Special Account; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule in respect of: (i) the MDA Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$2,000,000; and (ii) the DLC Special Account, an amount equivalent to $300,000. 
2.
Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
Page  16
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for a Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  17
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
