Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25064-YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.4 MILLION
(US$ 11.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 12, 2002
Private and Financial Sector Development
fCCO4
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 2, 2002)
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar
I Din. = US$0.0163
US$ = 61.17 Din.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA   -   Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CAS   -   Country Assistance Strategy
DEM    -   Deutsche Mark
DFID   -   Department for International Development
EAR   -   European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD    -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERTP   -   Economic Recovery and Transition Program
EU   -   European Union
FDI -    Foreign Direct Investment
FMR    -  Financial Management Report
FMS   -   Financial Management System
FRY   -   Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FSD   -   Financial Sector Development
FY   -   Fiscal Year
IAS   -  International Accounting Standards
IC  -   Individual Consultant
IDA   -   International Development Association (World Bank)
IFI  -   International Financial Institution
IS  -   International Shopping
LACI   -   Loan Administration Change Initiative
LLME    -   Large Loss-Making Enterprise
MOEP    -   Ministry of Economy and Privatization
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
NBY    -  National Bank of Yugoslavia
NS   -   National Shopping
PA   -   Privatization Agency
PAD   -   Project Appraisal Document
PAS   -   Procurement Accredited Specialist
PFSAC    -  Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
PIP  -   Project Implementation Plan
PMU    -  Project Management Unit
PPF   -  Project Preparation Facility
PSD   -   Private Sector Development
QCBS    -  Quality and Cost Based Selection
SA   -   Special Account
SAC   -   Structural Adjustment Credit
CQ   -   Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications
SME   -   Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE   -   Socially Owned Enterprise
TOR   -   Terms of Reference
TSS   -   Transitional Support Strategy
Vice President:     Mr. Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:       Mr. Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager/Director:      Mr. Khaled Sherif
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Mr. Alexander Pankov



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project ueveloprent oUjecti ve 2-
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategv                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          14
2. MaJor relateu projects finanieu Dy thu adri aiuu other developmuent agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                16
4. indications of borrower comnitnent and ownersnip                                   17
5. Value added ofBank support in this project                                         18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           18
I Finrnial                                                                            18
3. Technical                                                                          19
4.   fituioa                                                                          19
5. Environmental                                                                      20
7. Sicial                                                                             21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 21



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                 22
2. Critical risks                                                                  23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  24
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         24
2. Other                                                                           24
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                      24
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                     25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                      26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                     35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary       36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  37
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                38
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                      44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                 51
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                               52
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              53
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                        54
MAP(S)
General Map of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSPF
Date: November 12,2002                           Team Leader: Alexander Pankov
Sector Manager/Director: Khaled F. Sherif        Sector(s): General industry and trade sector (50%),
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Banking (50%)
Project ID: P077732                              Theme(s): State enterprise/bank restructuring and
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  privatization (P)
1 Loan      [X] Credit    1 Grant     1 Guarantee      1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 11.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.00-0.50%                       Service charge: 0.75%
BORROWER                                                      2.49           1.49          3.98
IDA                                                           0.62          10.38         11.00
Total:                                                        3.11          11.87         14.98
Borrower FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Responsible agency: PRIVATIZATION AGENCY / BANK REHABILITATION AGENCY
Privatization Agency of the Republic of Serbia (PA)
Address: Terazije 23, Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Contact Person: Mr. Vladimir Cupic, Director, Privatization Agency
Tel: 381 (11) 3020 800          Fax: 381 (11) 32 48 375         Email: vcupic@pa-serbia.co-yu
Other Agency(ies):
Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (BRA)
Address: Trg Nicole Pasica 10/Ill, Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslaiva
Contact Person: Ms. Vesna Dzinic, Executive Director, Bank Rehabilitation Agency
Tel: 381 (11) 32 42 987        Fax:             Email: info@bra.gov.yu
Estimated Disbursements Bank FY/USm):
Annual      1.10      4.10      4.20       1.60
Cumulative     1.10      5.20       9.40     11.00
Project implementation period: 02/15/2003 to 10/31/2005 - 32.5 months (FY03-FY06)
Expected effectiveness date: 02/15/2003 Expected closing date: 04/30/2006
OCII PAO Fat ' am



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed project is to facilitate private sector-led economic growth in the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and the Republic of Serbia' through: (i) launching and implementation of
restructuring and privatization of large problematic socially-owned enterprises (SOEs); and (ii)
implementation of a comprehensive banking sector restructuring strategy aimed at creating a more viable
financial sector. Specifically, the project will:
*   establish a consistent approach and methodology for the restructuring and subsequent
privatization of large problematic SOEs;
*   support the restructuring and subsequent privatization of large loss-making enterprises by
funding expert "restructuring agents" to prepare and implement "restructuring programs",
privatize the saleable business units using internationally accepted transparent sales techniques,
and put the unsaleable business units into bankruptcy;
*   increase the capacity of the Privatization Agency (PA) to work with the restructuring agents to
carry out the above mentioned restructuring programs; and,
*   support the restructuring or liquidation of insolvent banks under the control of Bank
Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) and the privatization of most majority state-owned banks.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress in achieving the development objective will be assessed on the basis of:
*   the number and value of large enterprises restructured, and business units and assets sold, or if
necessary, put into bankruptcy;
*   a comprehensive qualitative assessment of progress in implementation of restructuring programs
with respect to SOEs and parts thereof, for which privatization, restructuring or bankruptcy was
not completed, and reasons for delays, if any;
*   improved performance and competence of the PA to implement complex privatization through
restructuring strategy, as measured by the use of best practices, the number of restructuring
agents hired, and the number of auctions and tenders held;
*   selection of banks for rehabilitation/privatization or liquidation track; number of majority
state-owned banks privatized or put in liquidation; and,
*   qualitative assessment of progress in implementation of bank liquidation, rehabilitation and
privatization.
/ Due to the highly devolved nature of the Yugoslav federation (most areas of economic policy are in the competence of the
republics), Serbia and Montenegro have experienced different starting points, needs and pace of reforms. Moreover, most recent
reforms initiated at the federal level and implemented by the federal institutions such as the National Bank of Yugoslavia and
Bank Rehabilitation Agency have a direct impact on Serbia only. Therefore, the project documents specifically refer to the
Republic of Serbia as the project's primary beneficiary.
-2-



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24476     Date of latest CAS discussion: August 8, 2002
The proposed project is consistent with the Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for the Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, reviewed by the Board on May 8, 2001, and its update considered on August 8, 2002. The
strategy identifies the stimulation of near-term growth as one of the key challenges facing the FRY
authorities on the path to a market economy. The TSS recognizes that growth will be led by the private
sector and calls for rapid privatization of all viable SOEs and comprehensive financial sector reform.
The project is also consistent with the PSD and FSD strategy for Serbia, as discussed with the FRY and
Republic of Serbia governments and relevant local stakeholders, as well as the IMF, EU, EBRD, USAID,
and other donor partners.
The proposed operation is a logical extension of the International Development Association's (IDA;
henceforth referred to as "the Bank") recent efforts to support Serbia's enterprise sector reforms that
foster private sector growth and job creation, facilitated by a healthier and more developed financial
system. The initial technical assistance for the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments' reform
program was provided by two Technical Assistance Grants for Private and Financial Sector Development
(PSD and FSD TA Grants) approved in mid-2001. In recent months, the FRY and Republic of Serbia
authorities have made impressive progress in meeting the TSS' Private Sector Development (PSD) and
Financial Sector Development (FSD) Performance Benchmarks in the context of the Private and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC I). The proposed project will lay the groundwork for the
Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (PFSAC B), scheduled for 2003, which would
focus, inter alia, on restructuring and the subsequent privatization of large SOEs, and privatization and
liquidation of the remaining troubled majority state-owned banks.
RelevantDocuments: WB TSS (May 2001, updated in August 2002); IMF SBA (June 2001) and EFF
(May 2002); PSD and FSD TA Project Appraisal Documents (June 2001); PFSAC I President's Report
(May 2002); Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) President's Report (January 2002); The World Bank
and the European Commission (EC), Economic Recovery and Transition Program (ERTP) (May 2001).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a.     Large Socially-Owned Enterprises
As stated in the TSS, the real sector in Serbia is in very poor condition. The past decade brought about
macroeconomic instability, loss of markets, and isolation from technological advances. The mass of
productive assets tied up in socially- or state-owned firms requires a change of ownership and, in many
cases, restructuring if these firms are to survive and compete in open, global markets. The Republic of
Serbia Ministry of Economy and Privatization (MOEP) and the PA have the mandate to offer for sale the
capital or property of about 4,500 SOEs over the next four years. Among these SOEs, some companies
can be privatized in their current state, most likely those acquired as going concems by strategic
investors. However, the assets and employees of many more companies will play a productive role in the
new economy only if they are reconfigured into a new corporate structure, with companies decomposed
into smaller and leaner parts.
In particular, the MOEP has identified 47 large industrial conglomerates with many subsidiaries,
henceforth referred to as large loss-making enterprises (LLMEs), that require legal and financial
-3 -



restructuring before they or their successor parts can be successfully offered for sale through tender or
auction (henceforth referred to as the "list of 47"). The criteria used to select the LLMEs have been as
follows: number of employees, strategic importance for national/local economy, sectoral diversification
within the enterprise, etc. Above all, the main selection criteria were the extremely poor financial and
operational condition of a large enterprise and the associated social implications.
Most LLMEs have suffered from years of economic mismanagement as can be seen from the chronic
losses, high level of indebtedness and large excess capacity of both physical assets and labor. Overall,
the LLMEs exemplify the problems of the Serbian enterprise sector at its worst.
*    Operational diffculties.  Most LLMEs operate at a very low capacity. Their activities are
mainly in heavy industry (steel, copper, chemicals, metallurgy). Most of these enterprises lost
their share of export markets during disintegration of the former Yugoslavia and the ensuing
sanctions.
*   Excess labor. The LLMEs are among the largest employers in the country. As of early 2002,
the number of registered employees in these enterprises was more than 170,000 (a quarter of the
total employment in socially-owned enterprises). The copper mining conglomerate RTB Bor,
one of the largest LLMEs, employed more than 13,000 people. A significant proportion of the
employees are on administrative leave and employed in the informal sector.
*   Heavy indebtedness. All LLMEs are burdened with an unsustainable level of debt (total of Euro
3,900 million at the end of 2001), most of it overdue. In the past decade, they managed to stay
afloat through bank loans or inter-enterprise credit (including directed credit), and non-payment
of current obligations. The average liability per employee was Euro 22,970 at the end of 2001.
For comparison, total liabilities per employee in other large enterprises amounted to Euro 6,750.
Enterprise liabilities can generally be broken down into the following four categories.
o   Bank debt. Approximately 58 percent of the LLMEs' liabilities are owed to banks, although
this debt is not evenly distributed across the "list of 47." Preliminary estimates suggest that
99 percent of bank liabilities are overdue. Most of this debt is owed to the four large
insolvent banks currently under the administration of the BRA.
o   Foreign debt. LLMEs are heavily indebted to foreign creditors but a large portion of this
debt is state-guaranteed, as it was channeled through the banks to those enterprises.
o   Debt to suppliers. Approximately 21 percent of total liabilities are owed to suppliers, mostly
to utilities (electricity, power, water). Most of this debt is also overdue.
2/ The current list should not be considered as final as the Govermnent is likely to include additional enterprises in it based on the
same criteria, as it had already done in the past few months.
/ MOEP/PA are only responsible for large socially-owned enterprises, not for the state-owned ones. Due to the long history of
social ownership in Serbia, the state directly owns only public utility companies. These enterprises will be privatized at a later
stage, after appropriate price adjustments, introduction of proper regulatory bodies for natural monopolies etc. The policy
towards these enterprises is coordinated by the Ministry of Finance and various line ministries.
4/ The latter fact may be an important mitigating factor regarding the social consequences of restructuring.
-4-



o   Tax arrears and other public debt. Despite the fact that the tax collection rate is fairly high
in Serbia, LLMEs have large outstanding liabilities to tax authorities and various public
funds. These enterprises account for approximately one-third of outstanding debt to tax
authorities in the entire economy.
Impact on fiscal discipline. The LLMEs have been incurring losses for a number of years and have
relied on direct and indirect state subsidies in order to operate. Even though the volume of subsidies has
declined dramatically after the new Republic of Serbia Government came into office in early 2001, the
direct subsidies to SOEs still account for 5.5 billion dinars (0.8 percent of GDP) in the Republican 2002
budget, most of it going to LLMEs on the "list of 47." In addition, the SOEs benefit from even greater
indirect subsidies through the national electricity company (EPS) and the Ministry of Transport and
Telecommunications. Total subsidies to the SOEs (mostly to LLMEs) thus amount to at least 2 percent
of GDP.
b.     Banking Sector'
As in the case of the SOE sector, the present condition of Serbia's banking system reflects the extreme
conditions of state interference and instability under which it operated during the last decade. Pervasive
defaults and widespread arrears, aggravated by economic sanctions, resulted in significant portions of
bank assets becoming either immobile or non-performing. Mismanagement of the largest banks led to
directed credit decisions and was exacerbated by the ownership or control exercised over these banks by
some of the large and troubled SOEs. As a result, the size, level of intermediation and overall
significance of the banking system steadily declined during the 1990s. Excluding some DEM 7.4 billion
of foreign exchange deposits that have been frozen mainly in the largest state banks since 1991, deposits
in the banking system stood at less than DEM 100 per capita by end-2000, one the lowest figures
recorded in the region. By late 2000, around 90 percent of the banking assets were deemed insolvent.
As a result of resolute actions by current FRY and Serbian authorities over the last eighteen months,
including the initiation of a liquidation procedure for the four large state banks (see the section on
Government's strategy below), the Serbian banking system has significantly improved. New deposits are
flowing into the system, increasing more than tenfold between June 2001 and March 2002. This indicates
that the banking system will be in a better position to support enterprises, once prudent lending
opportunities are available.
The authorities estimate, however, that there is still some Euro 3.5 billion held outside the banking
system. A number of small- and medium-sized troubled banks have been placed under the care of BRA
for future liquidation or rehabilitation. The entry of foreign capital has been limited, and the system still
has a strong presence of majority state-owned banks, including the recently established National Savings
Bank, all of which are part of a far-reaching restructuring strategy supported by the FRY and Serbian
authorities and NBY.
/ More detailed description of the state of the Serbian financial system and the Government's banking sector restructuring
strategy can be found in the President's Report for PFSAC I, including the Letter of Development Policy.
- 5-



c.     Government Strategy
Large Loss-Making' SOEs
The MOEP has recently submitted to the Bank (under the policy program of PFSAC I) a draft
restructuring strategy focusing on the following five elements.
1. Legal Framework.
2. The Restructuring Model.
3. Financial Restructuring and Linkages with Bank Resolution.
4. Dealing with Social Costs.
5. Target Companies.
Legal Framework. The Serbian restructuring strategy is based on the new Privatization Law adopted
with the Bank support in June 2001. The Law on Privatization promulgates three methods of
privatization: (i) privatization tenders of large enterprises; (ii) auctions of medium enterprises; and (iii)
restructuring and subsequent tenders and/or auctions of large loss-making enterprises and/or parts
thereof. Tender privatization is used for companies that are sufficiently large, important and attractive to
require a case-by-case approach for their privatization. Companies that are not sufficiently large or
commercially attractive to be sold under the tender process will be offered for sale through a public
auction process. Enterprises which cannot be sold through auction or tender are required under the
Privatization Law to undergo "restructuring for privatization" (Article 19, 20). These articles allow the
MOEP/PA to instruct the company to prepare a restructuring program.
The legal framework for the Republic of Serbia Government's restructuring strategy is further detailed in
the by-law on restructuring. The by-law provides the procedures for reorganization, dealing with
creditors and debt, management of the company during restructuring and deadlines for third parties to
meet the requirements of the articles. In addition, amendments to the Law on Enterprises have been
adopted (supported by PFSAC 1) which allow the PA to assume the powers of the managing bodies of
enterprises which hinder or block the privatization process. A modem Bankruptcy Law has also been
drafted (supported by PFSAC I) and is expected to be adopted shortly.
Based on the lessons from the first cases of restructuring, such as of the Zorka holding company
(financed by USAID), the Republic of Serbia Government might introduce additional amendments to the
Privatization Law and other relevant regulations by the first quarter of 2003, and the Bank could support
these amendments under the forthcoming PFSAC II. In particular, it is proposed that, to mitigate the risk
that court challenges by minority (non-state) creditors delay the process, the above amendments address
the problem of dealing with creditors of enterprises under restructuring if the out-of-court restructuring
provision in the Privatization Law (Article 23) does not prove to be sufficiently robust.
The Restructuring ModeL The Republic of Serbia Government's restructuring model is based on the
segmentation (in a typical case) of the company, incorporation of new companies created from parts of
the old one and sale of these new companies and assets remaining after the break up.' The underlying
premise of this exercise is that various subsidiaries and/or assets of LLMEs can be viable and attractive
to potential investors even if as a whole these conglomerates are presently non-viable and non-saleable.
This model is based on a transaction oriented approach, where the ultimate sale of the enterprise or its
various viable parts drives the restructuring effort. There will be no attempt to continue operating these
enterprises in their present conglomerate form as either socially- or state-owned entities.
/ It should be noted that, after extensive consultations with the Bank and other donors, the European Agency for Reconstruction
(EAR) is now sharing the same approach and is willing to finance the privatization through restructuring of a number of LLMEs.
-6-



According to the government strategy, the privatization through restructuring model will include
identification of independent business units (IBU) in each enterprise, their transformation into saleable
business units (SBU), and the sale of SBUs. This process will consist of three stages: (i) a feasibility
study and a due diligence report, serving as the basis for preparation of the restructuring program; (ii) the
implementation of organizational and financial restructuring, including (if necessary) the incorporation of
the new companies created from parts of the old one and negotiations with creditors; and (iii) the
privatization of the SBUs by tender or auction, and disposing of all other assets remaining after the
reorganization through bankruptcy procedures. The PA plans to engage external restructuring agents such
as investment banks, qualified consultancies, and workout companies to undertake these three stages. In
most cases, the restructuring task will be led by the company responsible for sale, leading a consortium
of experts, as required.
Financial Restructuring and Linkages with FSD. Following the liquidation of the four major banks,
the loans made by these banks to enterprises represent the non-performing portfolio to be administered
by the BRA in its capacity as bankruptcy administrator of these four banks. At the same time, as noted
above, the overdue loans burden the balance sheets of the SOEs so that their restructuring and
privatization is hindered. In the absence of a joint resolution, the potential conflict of interests between
the BRA and PA could hamper the restructuring and privatization process and may even result in the
liquidation of companies that could be sold as going concerns. In view of the high level of indebtedness
of most LLMEs, the process of debt workout is key to ultimate success of restructuring, i.e., the sale of
the company.
The FRY and Republic of Serbia governments, assisted by the Bank, have recently come up with a
framework under which the debts owed to the BRA banks and to the Ministry of Finance and Economy
(primarily tax arrears, but also health, pension, unemployment and other public funds) by SOEs will be
settled from privatization proceeds, and will not be the obligation of the buyer. The recovery of these
categories of debt from privatization proceeds is expected to be more than or equal to the present value of
liquidating the company through bankruptcy given assumptions that: (i) the privatization process is faster
than court administered liquidation; and (ii) the value of a company's assets is higher as part of a going
concern. The crucial condition of the scheme is that settlement of debts occurs only as an integral part of
the closing transaction; if the enterprise is not sold, then the debt write off does not occur. Only at the
closing of the sale transaction does the BRA and MOF debt, which is not assumed by the buyer, cease to
be an obligation of the enterprise.
Dealing with Social Costs. An integral part of the Republic of Serbia Government's strategy will be to
address the social impact of restructuring and privatization. The break-up and sale of the LLMEs are
likely to entail major labor displacement. The Republic of Serbia Law on Labor (passed in 2001) and
Law on Employment (currently in draft form) set the minimum levels of severance payment and
unemployment benefits for displaced workers. In addition to the above laws, the recently adopted
Republic of Serbia Government's Social Program deals specifically with employees dismissed during
restructuring, privatization, and liquidation of LLMEs. The program provides a unified approach for
dealing with the social costs of LLMEs' reform and minimizes the prospects of ad hoc settlements for
dismissed workers at various enterprises. Retrenched workers may choose between: (i) a lump-sum
payment equivalent to Euro 1,000 or Euro 100 per year of service (whichever is higher), and (ii) payment
for up to two years, depending on length of service, at 40 to 80 percent of the average wage in Serbia.
Displaced workers may also seek additional support, including training and requalification benefits, and
financial support to set up a new private business.
- 7 -



A detailed diagnostic for each enterprise prepared by the restructuring agent will include a labor
redeployment plan for an enterprise, which will outline severance or other packages for redundant
workers and receive financing from the Republic of Serbia budget. The 2002 budget includes a special
allocation to provide the payments to companies covered by the Social Program, and a comparable
allocation will be included in next year's budget. Given the significant fiscal cost of the program, efforts
are being coordinated between the MOEP, Ministry of Labor and Employment, Ministry of Finance and
Economy, and other relevant government agencies to prioritize the payment of retrenchment benefits to
workers from those companies that are undergoing credible pre-privatization restructuring. The Bank
will continue to monitor the implementation of the Social Program in the context of forthcoming
adjustment operations (SOSAC and PFSAC II).
Target Companies. As noted above, the list of 47 identified LLMEs represents a diverse universe of
companies. Some of them, like the car maker Zastava or mining combinate Bor, are large conglomerates
of companies, while others are much smaller entities with one or a few productive facilities. Some are
potentially attractive and will appeal to buyers after limited restructuring. Others are in perilous financial
shape with few attractive assets and will require substantial restructuring before any buyers can be
attracted, and then possibly only for sale of some assets. The total cost of expert help to restructure the 47
LLMEs could be as high as US$20-30 million, not including social cost which will be much higher, and
the process would take a number of years.
With the help of the Bank, the PA has engaged consultants to conduct a preliminary assessment and
ranking of the list of 47 LLMEs using the following criteria for each enterprise: (i) market potential of
the company and its SBUs; (ii) expressed interest from potential foreign investors; (iii) current level of
operations; (iv) degree of financial distress, including the creditors' profile; and (v) existence of SBUs
within the company. Based on this analysis (including on-site visits), the potential candidates for
privatization through restructuring have been identified.
It is evident from the initial diagnostic work that some of the companies on the "list of 47" of may never
be suitable for any serious attempt at privatization and should eventually be subject to
bankruptcy/liquidation procedures. It is also understood that the list is by no means exclusive, as other
suitable candidates for privatization through restructuring may be identified from the existing population
of unprivatized socially-owned enterprises.
Bankingi Sector
Following the 2000 elections, the FRY and Serbian governments decided that restructuring the financial
sector at an early stage in transition was an utmost priority. Under the leadership of the NBY, the
authorities started with assessment of the conditions of troubled banks, followed by a launching of a
comprehensive banking sector reform program. At the core of this program is a far reaching banking
restructuring strategy that aims to eliminate deep insolvency of the system, reestablish public confidence
and adequate intermediation, and attract new capital into what is envisioned to be a privately-owned
modem banking system. Some 23 banks were closed by the end of 2001 and, most importantly, the four
largest banks, representing more than 60 percent of the book assets of the system, were closed
simultaneously on a single day in the first week of January 2002. The latter step can be considered of an
unprecedented nature in the region, and demonstrated the determination of the FRY authorities to reform
the financial sector. Resolution efforts are also accompanied by improvements in the regulatory and
supervisory framework of the banking system and an aggressive program of institution building at the
BRA, supported by the Bank and other donors.
- 8-



As agreed with the Bank in the context of the agenda for PFSAC II, the authorities intend to largely
complete restructuring and privatization of the banking system by the end of 2003. The program calls for
the following key actions to be taken:
*   privatization or liquidation of the five small troubled banks now under BRA control;
*   privatization or liquidation of up to 13 additional banks that became majority state-owned in fall
of 2002 following the debt conversion of their Paris Club liabilities, which have been assumed by
the Republic of Serbia; and,
*   privatization or liquidation of most remaining majority state-owned banks, including the National
Savings Bank.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Enterprise Sector
The proposed project provides technical assistance (consultant services) and equipment to support the
Republic of Serbia Government's program to undertake the urgent organizational and financial
restructuring of a number of failing SOEs, focusing on the very large ones and those of acute social
importance. Given the dire financial and operational condition of these enterprises, as well as the present
investment climate in Serbia, it is clear that these firms will not be able to attract buyers in their current
state. Such firms will play a productive role in the Serbian economy only if they are reconfigured into
smaller parts, with the objective of extracting and selling viable business lines and putting into
bankruptcy/liquidating (including the sale of assets) the rest. The process of break-up and spin-offs of
LLMs will not only release assets to the emerging private sector, but also strengthen fiscal discipline
and improve the business environment by weakening the grip of the large un-restructured SOEs. If these
SOEs are allowed to preserve their existing structures without privatization, they will continue to use
their size and political power to evade financial discipline, demand non-competitive regulation and
otherwise block (potential) competition from the private sector.
Banking Sector
The project will also provide technical assistance for the implementation of the second phase of the
authorities' banking sector restructuring program. Specifically, the project will address the following
issues:
*   the need to liquidate insolvent banks currently in the portfolio of BRA.
*   the need to decide whether any of the most viable majority state-owned banks can be privatized
by sale to strong strategic partners in the short term, and what type of pre-privatization
restructuring will be needed.
*   the need to define a workout solution for assets carved out of the banking system integrated with
the broader workout of claims and arrears in the economy, including in LLMEs.
-9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Part A.      Privahzation through Restructuring of Socially-Owned Enterprises
Under this component, technical assistance will be provided to the PA or other relevant agencies, to
support privatization and restructuring, and, when appropriate, bankruptcy of a number of large SOEs
using intemationally reputed restructuring agents hired through competitive tenders. The component will
be implemented in accordance with the Republic of Serbia Govermment's Enterprise Privatization
Framework, as defined by the relevant laws, regulations, and institutions, as well as in accordance with
the specific policy commitments undertaken by the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments in the
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) for PFSAC I.
In accordance with the govermment strategy, the proposed project will focus on the select group of
companies in which saleable successor companies, units, parts or assets can be identified for
privatization. In other words, in view of the limited financial resources and the importance of having
early successful cases in the process, the project will concentrate on LLMEs which have assets or SBUs
with a higher potential for successful privatization transactions. The project will focus on, but will not
be limited to, the group of 47 SOEs identified by the Republic of Serbia Govermment as potential
candidates for privatization through restructuring. The list of SOEs to undergo privatization through
restructuring with the help of credit funds will be agreed upon between the PA and the Bank at the early
stage of project implementation.
A.].   Privatization through Restructuring of Socially-Owned Enterprises
Under this sub-component, technical assistance to the Republic of Serbia, operating through the PA or
other relevant agencies, to support privatization and restructuring, and, when appropriate, bankruptcy, of
a number of large SOEs, using case-by-case and pool privatization techniques, on the basis of transparent
and competitive procedures and assistance of restructuring agents through the provision of services. This
sub-component will cover the major part of costs (namely, the retainer fee) of engaging the expert
restructuring agents-investment banks, consulting companies, workout firms and other financial
advisors-to implement each of the above-mentioned three stages of restructuring using transparent
internationally accepted procedures. Companies may be offered to agents either individually or in small
"pools" of two to four companies. The success fee of the restructuring agents, based on the sale of the
successor companies and the remaining assets will be paid by the Republic of Serbia Government.
A.2.   Building the Institutional Capacity of the PA
This sub-component will provide technical assistance to build up institutional competence of the PA to
supervise the restructuring agents in the preparation and implementation of the above-mentioned
restructuring programs. The assistance will cover the following:
i. advisory services for establishing the Restructuring Unit within the PA capable of monitoring the
restructuring agents' perfornance, dealing with the enterprise creditors and employees, and
negotiating with potential investors; and,
ii. consulting services to enhance institutional capacity of the PA with foreign and local expert
advice and technical know-how for the restructuring and privatization process, including
- 10-



preparation of the company profiles, development of TORs, facilitation of contracting and
bidding process for restructuring agents, organizing the creditors' meetings, and advising on
legal issues.
A.3.   Project Management and Implementation
This sub-component will support the work of the Project Management Unit (PMU), already established
in the PA, in the management, implementation and monitoring of Parts A. l and A.2 of the project,
through the provision of services, including the audit of records, accounts and financial statements,
goods, and fimancing of incremental operating costs, including PA staff salaries.
FHar B.      Ba '1 estrncenring program
This component will support the continued implementation of the bank restructuring and privatization
program by the BRA. The component will be implemented in accordance with the FRY Government's
Bank Resolution Framework, as defmed by the relevant laws, regulations, programs and institutions, as
well as in accordance with the specific policy commintments undertaken by the FRY and Republic of
Serbia governments in the LDP for PFSAC 1.
B.].   Bank Liquidation, Rehaabilitation and Privatization
This sub-component will cover the following:
i.   consulting services to provide operational support for receiverships for insolvent banks
currently in the BRA portfolio;
ii.  consulting services to undertake the implementation of stabilization, rehabilitation and
pre-privatization activities for majority state-owned banks in BRA portfolio that have been
selected for privatization; and,
iii. services of financial advisors to undertake the marketing and imnplementation of
privatization tenders for majority state-owned banks under the control of the BRA.
B.2.   Project Management and Implementatioin
This sub-component will support the work of the PMU, already established at the BRA, in the
management, implementation and monitoring of Part B.1 of the project, through the provision of
services, including the audit of records, accounts and financial statements, and financing of incremental
operating costs.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component               .       Costs     %o      financing
_  (US$M)    Total     (US$M) . .'fiiancing
Part A. Privatization through Restructuring of      10.88      72.6      8.00      72.7
Socially-Owned Enterprises
PartB. Bank RestructuringProgram                     4.10      27.4      3.00      27.3
Yatal   ea cCeto   14.98    100.0      11.00     100.0
¶'otdll cF aimcmg Eequined  14.98    100.0     11.00     100.0



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Serbia embarked on its renewed transition with a socially-owned enterprise sector that is accustomed to
soft budget constraints and, as a result, is inefficiently organized, loss-making and excessively indebted.
To address the severely deteriorated situation at large SOEs, the Republic of Serbia Govermnent
prepared an ambitious privatization through restructuring strategy, dealing with companies that must be
restructured before sale because they are too complex in organization (e.g., having disparate lines of
business attracting different buyers), encumbered with heavy debt, and generally unattractive to investors
in their present state. At the same time, the FRY and Serbian authorities launched an ambitious banking
sector restructuring strategy aimed at facilitating economic recovery by creating a healthy banking sector
capable of providing financial intermediation services on a sustainable basis. This technical assistance
project aims to support the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments' reform program by: (i) financing
the qualified financial advisors to undertake restructuring and subsequent privatization of a number of
large SOEs across a wide spectrum of sectors; (ii) improving the capacity of PA to manage the
privatization through restructuring process; and (iii) supporting liquidation of insolvent banks and the
restructuring and subsequent privatization of a number of majority state-owned banks. Very importantly,
the proposed project will support the development of the local institutional capacity, thus creating the
foundation for the restructuring and privatization of other SOEs and banks not directly financed from this
credit.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of the proposed project would be faster private sector growth and job creation,
supported by a healthier and more developed financial system. Overall enterprise and financial sector
performance is expected to improve. This improvement will come partly through the privatization and
liquidation of banks, and the sale of large loss-making SOEs or, more likely, their successor parts and/or
assets to local and foreign investors with strong management capacity, and partly through improved
financial discipline facilitated by the segmentation and sale of the companies, and more productive use of
assets as a result of restructuring. At the same time, a well-functioning, transparent and cost-effective
financial system would allow an adequate mobilization of resources and better allocation into productive
investments. It is important to note that privatization and, in some cases, liquidation of some of the
largest loss-making SOEs, as well as majority state-owned banks will reinforce sustainability of Serbia's
macroeconomic stabilization and fiscal discipline by removing a long-standing source of budget drain.
In the medium term, the formation of new private sector fimns is expected to accelerate in response to an
increased supply of productive assets that will be released from loss making firms as part of the
restructuring effort. Such a reconfiguration and the spin-off of functions are important for the
development of the formnal SME sector and the formalization of the vibrant informal one. In the long run,
the reforms supported by the proposed operation are expected to have an overall positive impact on
poverty reduction in Serbia as crowding out of the private sector by large loss making firms will cease,
financial intermediation will significantly increase, and the Serbian economy will embark on a steady
growth path.
- 12-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a three year period. The PA and BRA will be the main
counterparts for Parts A and B of the project, respectively. The general policy guidance will be provided
by the MOEP and NBY for Parts A and B of the project, respectively. The project implementation will
be effected by the two PMUs, which have been established in the PA and the BRA in Spring 2001 to
implement the ongoing Bank's PSD TA and FSD TA Grants. The two PMUs will be fully separate, and
responsible for the implementation and administration of their respective components. Both PMUs are
expected to finance their components through two separate Special Accounts. The two PMUs will be
responsible for monitoring the use of funds for their respective components, including procurement and
disbursement, and reporting on the use of project funds to the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments
and to the Bank.
Each PMU is headed by a Director, who will have overall responsibility for his/her respective component
of the proposed project. The PMU Directors will ensure that all project objectives and targets that can be
monitored, as specified in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), are on track and achieved. He/she will
be assisted by a Project Administrator, who will oversee day-to-day operations. Technical expertise on a
short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrators as required. Each PMU will include
procurement, disbursement and financial management specialists who will work on the proposed project.
Financial Reporting
Each PMU will prepare a quarterly Financial Management Report (FMR) for its respective component of
the project, in accordance with formats agreed upon with the Bank, which will then be consolidated by
the PA PMU and forwarded to the Bank. The FMRs will include the following areas: (i) Financial
Report; (ii) Project Progress Report; and (iii) Procurement Management Report. These financial reports
will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each quarter. The first FMR is expected to be
submitted for the period ending 31 March 2003. In order to facilitate consolidation of both sets of
reports, each PMU should preferably establish a common chart of accounts built on a common reporting
platform.
Audit Arrangements
The audit would include both a project audit, and an audit of both implementing agencies (an "entity
audit"). The project audit would include a separate opinion by the auditor on the operation of the Special
Accounts and the adequacy of SOE procedures. The audit of the Agencies should be completed for the
year ending December 31, 2002 (as the Agencies are currently managing other Bank projects). The PIP
indicates that only a small amount of funds will be disbursed during 2002 and hence the first project
audit will likely cover the period from credit effectiveness to December 31, 2003. These audits should be
carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank, and the audit reports should be sent
to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. It is expected that the cost of the entity audits
will not be financed from the credit but will be financed from the agencies' own income.
Disbursements
Disbursements from the proposed credit will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e.,
from the Special Account with reimbursements based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Credit Account). The Borrower will establish, maintain
and operate (through PMUs), under conditions acceptabale to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts
for Parts A and B of the project, separate from the Special Accounts currently used for other
- 13 -



Bank-financed projects. There are currently three banks in Serbia which are considered satisfactory for
the maintenance of Special Accounts. Where the Borrower considers it efficient to open a local currency
account, these should be opened in the same bank as the Special Account and should be used only for
funds related to this project. The local currency accounts will be primarily transaction accounts and
balances should be kept to a minimum.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Two alternative methods for enforcing financial discipline on and dealing with large loss-making SOEs
were considered and rejected:
*   Privatization "as is" without prior restructuring, or bankruptcy.  This strategy calls for
immediate privatization of these enterprises without attempting first to restructure them.
According to this approach, if privatization "as is" does not succeed, creditors should
immediately file a petition for bankruptcy in court. This approach may take a very long time in
view of the limited capacity of the courts, lack of trustees and, above all, the pro-debtor culture
of the courts and other key stakeholders. The team does not believe this strategy will work under
present conditions in Serbia; neither has it worked elsewhere in ECA (with the exception of
Hungary and Estonia). First, given the poor condition of most LLMEs and weak interest from
potential investors, these companies clearly cannot be privatized as they are. Second, bankruptcy
and total liquidation of all LLMEs are very risky due to the potential major social fallout
associated with massive bankruptcies. Even if the authorities were to bankrupt the large
enterprises, as already mentioned, the current weakness of the Serbian bankruptcy regime would
severely delay the process. Meanwhile, in the absence of action, the LLMEs would continue to
be a drain on the state budget and an impediment for economic growth.'
*   Restructuring without privatizationl"Isolation" approach. Several governments in transition
economies (e.g., Romania, Albania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Kyrgyz Republic) have implemented
isolation programs that combine features of reorganization under bankruptcy but without the
objective of sale of assets or privatization of viable units. Despite substantial costs, the
operational performance of only few enterprises has improved as a result of these efforts, and
even then the improvement did not last and these SOEs collapsed again due to low levels of
productivity and investment, weak (and unchanged) corporate governance, corruption, lack of
any meaningful financial discipline and slow response to market information. Worse still, such
programs may have delayed further restructuring and privatization because the isolated
enterprises became a cohesive political lobby for more subsidies. In general, as demonstrated by
the experiences in other transition economies, unless the sale of productive assets is seen as an
ultimate goal of restructuring, restructuring does not produce the expected results and the
troubled enterprises remain a drain on the budget and a social liability.
/ A third alternative approach to restructuring is the bank-led restructuring of SOEs which has been attempted, e.g., in Poland.
This model was not seriously considered by the team due to the weakness of the Serbian banking sector.
/ A new Bankruptcy Law is being drafted with the Bank's support, combined with an effort to put in place a bankruptcy
framework. In particular, PFSAC II will support licensing of trustees and establishing a special Trustee Agency in the MOEP to
assist in the administration of trusteeship of SOEs (sinilarly to the appomting the BRA as receiver of banks). Once these
reforms are implemented, the bankruptcy courts may exert pressure on the remaining SOEs to restructure and sell themselves in
order to pay off the claims and avoid liquidation procedure.
- 14 -



The project team also considered an alternative to bank rehabilitation represented by an immediate
privatization, presumably at negative sale prices, in which prospective investors could have taken the
lead in restructuring the banks. This scenario was rejected due to the view that the level of insolvency of
the state-owned banks was considered high and therefore it would have been nearly impossible to find
such investors. Another alternative that was considered was immediate liquidation of insolvent banks.
This scenario was rejected since the BRA estimates that many of these banks are "privatizable", provided
an adequate process of rehabilitation is undertaken. In any case, success in rehabilitation of the troubled
banks remains hard to anticipate; therefore the BRA remains conscious of the need to shift into a
liquidation process if necessary.
2. Major related projects flnanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I }                      .       ^Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
.______________ ______________   __________________ _  l (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Privatization of SOEs            Private Sector Development       S             S
Technical Assistant Grant
(SF-P074145-LEN-BB)
Bank resolution                  Financial Sector Development     S             S
Technical Assistant Grant
(SF-P074145-LEN-BB)
Privatization and Restructuring of  Private and Financial Sector  S             S
SOEs, Bank Resolution, Bankruptcy  Adjustment Credit (PFSAC I)
and Second Private and
Financial Sector Adjustnent
Credit (under preparation)
Other development agencies                                                           -
Privatization and Enterprise     Financing restructuring study  ,.
Restructuring                    and restructuring agents for one -
company (IFC)
Financing restructuring studies -7
and restructuring agents for 13
companies (EAR)                                    `7i s
Financing restructuring studies  ,
and restructuring agents for
eight SOEs (USAID)
Financing restructuring studies
for five companies (UK DFID)
Bank Restructuring Program       Support to BRA management          -
of bank liquidation and
rehabilitation (US Treasury) -'    '5
Support to BRA management
of bank rehabilitation/       -
privatization process (UK
DFID)                        -. -          - 
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 15 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Transition experience elsewhere has shown that dealing with country's large loss-making politically
sensitive enterprises is one of the most difficult steps in the reform process and almost always requires
special arrangements. As proposed in this project, large politically sensitive enterprises can be dealt with
by breaking them into smaller business units, each based on a core business activity. This approach has
been successfully applied in many transition economies, and in most cases the fragmentation of
enterprises greatly reduced their political power and ability to resist changes." For example, a state
shipping company in Lithuania was broken up into two parts as a result of restructuring, with one IBU
successfully sold to a strategic investor, and another one undergoing further privatization at the moment.
In Czech Republic, the Government engaged financial advisors to develop and implement financial and
operational restructuring of TATRA and ZETOR industrial conglomerates prior to privatization of their
core units. Skopje steel works in Macedonia was broken up into around 12 enterprises and the core steel
making assets were eventually sold to a foreign strategic investor. At the same time, the enterprise
reform program in Macedonia was stalled in the cases of large enterprises, like the smelters, that were not
or could not be broken into many smaller companies.
Another lesson is the need for an integrated approach to reform private and financial sectors. The real
sector cannot operate without an effective banking sector encouraging domestic savings and generating
the working capital and investment finance. At the same time, a financial sector cannot gain acceptable
returns or diversify its risks between retail and corporate credit without a functioning real sector. Only
an efficient financial sector is capable of ensuring financial discipline and channeling resources towards
good investment opportunities. Practically, this means stopping direct political loans and allocating
loans based on return considerations. The linkages between the PSD and FSD sector reforms supported
under PFSAC I and II will be crucial to the success of bank and enterprise privatizations under the
proposed project.
In this respect, a key lesson in real sector reform in other transition countries (e.g., Croatia, Czech
Republic and Slovenia) has been that the use of state-sponsored asset management companies or similar
institutions to work out the debts of enterprises to banks has proven almost entirely ineffective.  In
Croatia, debts carved out of the large banks in the course of rehabilitation were "parked" in the Bank
Rehabilitation Agency where no attempt was made to use debt leverage to force firms to restructure (the
debt was often converted to equity in any case). As a result, a large number of state-controlled firms now
have to be restructured and privatized, at the very late stage in the transition process and after ten years of
under-investment in new technology as a result of preferring to use cash to maintain employment.
The proposed project also takes into account another crucial lesson from the Bank's experience with
enterprise and bank restructuring in transition economies, i.e., the importance of having an adequate
institutional capacity in place to undertake such a complex exercise. This includes established
Privatization Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency staffed with top-quality professionals assisted by
foreign resident advisors.
/ In fact, many large state-owned companies in developed economies (UK, New Zealand) underwent some form of
organizational and/or financial restructurng prior to privatization.
- 16 -



Because of the emphasis on sales in the proposed project, the use of competent restructuring agents that
are capable of selling is key to the success of the program, as shown by the experiences with case-by-case
privatizations throughout the world. Where companies are relatively large and, after restructuring, are
saleable as a whole or have significant units that can be sold, investment banks will be hired to undertake
the restructuring and sale. For less attractive enterprises, workout companies and consultancies
experienced in restructuring and workout will be used. Compensation will be based on a retainer fee
which will cover the preparation and implementation of restructuring program, outlining both legal and
financial restructuring, and a success fee to be paid from the proceeds of sale. A similar approach has
been successfully used in Romania with two large firms and is being extended to cover ten firms
tendered in four small pools to workout finns and experienced consultancies.
The Bank's previous experience with TA projects also indicates that projects with a sizable amount of
technical assistance should have:
i. active support of ministry and government officials to ensure properly considered and timely
decision making on crucial issues;
ii. donor coordination to avoid duplication of efforts and leverage available resources in the most
efficient way;
iii. a well defined procurement plan, including terms of reference for consultants and studies drafted
and agreed upon with the borrower prior to negotiations; and,
iv. PMUs with well qualified and competent staff who are properly compensated for their work.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The FRY and Republic of Serbia governments requested support for privatization and restructuring of
banks and enterprises through this project in October 2001 and confirmed the need for support during the
PFSAC I negotiations in April 2002. The proposed project is consistent with the FRY and Republic of
Serbia govermnents' Enterprise Privatization Framework and Bank Resolution Framework. As noted in
the LDP for PFSAC I, the restructuring, privatization and/or liquidation of large SOEs and majority
state-owned banks will be at the core of reforms supported by PFSAC II, the Bank's next adjustment
operation planned for 2003.
The FRY and Republic of Serbia govermnents' commitment is also reflected in recent actions taken by
the MOEP and PA to pass relevant legislation, including the Privatization Law and the by-law on
restructuring, and to prepare the draft restructuring strategy for the "list of 47". Furthermore, the
Republic of Serbia Government initiated, using its own funds, the restructuring process for several large
SOEs, including the car-maker Zastava. The Serbian authorities, supported by the Bank, organized a
series of training seminars for managers of SOEs subject to privatization through restructuring. On the
banking sector side, the bold steps taken in early 2002 that have resulted in the closure of the four largest
state banks can be considered unprecedented in the region, and demonstrated the determination of the
FRY authorities to reform the financial sector. Meanwhile, institutional capacity of PA and BRA to
undertake complex restructuring and privatization programs has been strengthened by the hiring of local
staff and foreign advisers.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's strategy is based on two principles: (i) investing in areas where the Bank has a comparative
advantage; and (ii) investing in key reform areas, including private and financial sector development.
- 17 -



The Bank has extensive knowledge and experience in bank and enterprise privatization and restructuring
in former socialist countries, including in Serbia (Bank's PSD and FSD TA Grants). It is thus in a unique
position to provide best practice advice on how to deal with large loss-making SOEs and majority
state-owned troubled banks. The Bank will also assist in implementation of the project through hands-on
supervision and imparting knowledge of project management methods to Serbian counterparts.
The key rationale for Bank intervention in the reform of large SOEs is the urgent need for donor
contribution to designing the restructuring model (as described above) and successfully launching the
program. Until now, the Bank has had no funding available for restructuring activities, leaving the
authorities dependent on limited donor financing and scarce internal resources of the PA for hiring
necessary staff and experts. Several donors, including EAR, USAID, and DFID, have indicated a
willingness to fund diagnostic studies and, in some cases, restructuring agents for the privatization
through restructuring of a number of companies, but there remains a significant need for additional
capacity building at the PA. There is a clear need for the Bank funding to provide full support to the
Republic of Serbia Government's restructuring strategy in all its three stages, finance a major capacity
building effort at the PA, and serve as a catalyst for attracting meaningful assistance from other donors.
The team anticipates that other donors will share the model supported by the proposed credit as a result
of the demonstration effect from the first successfil cases of privatization through restructuring.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
As described in greater detail in Section C.3 of this document, the potential economic benefits of
restructuring and privatizing the LLMEs and majority state-owned banks, though difficult to quantify
with certainty, are likely to be significant. As experience in many transition countries in the region
shows, output and profits have risen in privatized companies after a period of adjustment. At the same
time, the level of financial intermediation increases with the appearance of strategic investors in the
banking sector.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable
Fiscal Inpact:
The sale of SOEs and banks with the help of expert agents will generate budgetary revenues. More
importantly, the project will have the following financial impact: (a) newly privatized enterprises will no
longer receive direct and indirect subsidies described in section B.2 of this document; and (b) the state
will be free of potential future liabilities for any losses incurred by the enterprises or banks.
/ The Bank's tender privatization program supported by the PSD TA Grant (approved in June 2001) is ahready being supported
by other donors' assistance programs (Dutch and Swedish cofinancing TFs).
- 18 -



3. Technical:
Successful restructuring and privatization require high-quality advice and expertise in a number of areas.
These technical skills are currently weak in Serbia. The project would ensure that the Government of
Serbia has access to the necessary expertise, through top-level advisors and consultants, to facilitate the
achievement of its reform objectives in a timely manner. An important element of the project will be for
the hired experts to train and transfer these skills to their in-country counterparts.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The PA will deal with privatization through restructuring of SOEs, while the BRA will be responsible for
privatization and liquidation of majority state-owned banks. The PA will adhere to the principles laid out
in the Implementation Agreement between the PA and Republic of Serbia, which will serve as a
disbursement condition for Part A of the project. Since the legal and operational status of the BRA is
one of a government controlled agency, there will be no need for an implementation agreement for Part B
of the Project.
The Project will seek reassurances that adequate funding to the PA and BRA is available for the duration
of the project, either from donor funds or from the FRY budget. In this regard, the project team has
received confirmation from the FRY and Republic of Serbia authorities on the provision of adequate
funding for the continued operation of the PA and BRA. These funds are reflected as counterpart funds
for the project, and their provision and use will be monitored accordingly.
4.2 Project management:
The overall coordination of the project would rest with the PMU, which has been established in the PA
and the BRA. Each PMU is currently headed by a Director, who will have overall responsibility for
PMU's respective component. He/she is assisted by a Project Administrator who will oversee the
day-to-day operations. Each of the PMUs will include procurement, disbursement and financial
management specialists working specifically on the proposed project. The PMUs will be responsible for
day-to-day operations of their respective parts of the project, procurement, and financial management,
including reporting to the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments and to the Bank.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A review was undertaken in July 2002 to determine whether the procurement arrangements within each
of the PMUs are acceptable to the Bank. The PMUs already have substantial procuremenet
administration and financial management experience acquired through their ongoing management of WB
PSD TA and FSD TA Grants, as well as a number of co-financing grants and trust fund grants. As noted
above, specific procurement and disbursement/accounting specialists will be assigned to work on the
project components in both PMUs.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A review was undertaken in August 2002 to determine whether the financial management arrangements
within each of the PMUs are acceptable to the Bank. It was concluded that the PA and BRA PMUs have
financial management systems which meet the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
- 19 -



Financial flows
The Bank will make funds available to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia under the Credit Agreement,
governing the terms and conditions of the proposed credit. The FRY Government will on-lend the funds
on IDA terms to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for implementation of component A, based on
the Subsidiary Credit Agreement with termns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Financial Risks
From a financial management perspective, the project is considered a moderate risk operation.
Project Financing Plan
The project's financing plan, which includes the credit from the Bank and counterpart contribution, and
the project's planned expenditures have been realistically estimated.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The proposed technical assistance project is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts.
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex E),
the proposed project has been placed in Category "C" and does not require an environmental assessment.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan is not needed; however, the ternis of reference for environmental
audits have been prepared and will be included in the overall TOR for the restructuring agents.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Sumnarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
- 20-



The break-up and sale of the LLMEs are likely to entail significant labor displacement. As described in
more detail in section B.2.c, an integral part of the Republic of Serbia Government's strategy will be to
mitigate the social impact of restructuring and privatization.  With regard to the SOEs to be
restructured/privatized under the proposed project, it was agreed during the negotiations that the
Republic of Serbia funds for payments to be made to redundant employees under applicable laws of the
Republic of Serbia, shall be transferred to an appropriate account in the Republic of Serbia Ministry of
Labor and Employment, in a timely manner, and in accordance with the requirements of the relevant
restructuring program.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The PA and MOEP (as agencies responsible for privatization of SOEs), and the BRA and NBY (as
agencies responsible for bank resolution) are the primary stateholders. Representatives of these
institutions have participated closely in the design of the proposed project. The Republic of Serbia
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Employment, and the business community are other key
stakeholders who have also been involved in the design of the proposed project. The views on the model
supported by the proposed project were sought during the series of seminars attended by the senior and
mid-level management of large loss-making SOEs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project
I --.-   -,   .-   ' -   I   .". -  Policy   ,  ,, . ..   ..   <, !- I  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes () No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (9 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 436)                                  U(9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    U Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                U Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 ( Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        U Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                             (9 Yes * No
Projects In International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  (9 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      () Yes * No
- 21 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Although the proposed project is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impacts,
and does not require an environmental assessment, due attention will be given to environmental
liability and compliance issues during the privatization process. As in the case of the tender privatization
program undertaken by the Privatization Agency under WB PSD TA Grant, it was agreed with the
Republic of Serbia Government that environrmental assessment studies would be undertaken by qualified
experts for each company that is to be sold under the proposed project. In each case, environmental
assessment will ascertain past liabilities and future environmental obligations, and its results will be
made available to potential investors as part of the information memorandum for each enterprise put on
sale. Under the proposed amendments to the Privatization Law, prepared in coordination with the
Ministry of Environment, the state will be responsible for environmental remediation for past
environmental damage. While subject to negotiation, it is expected that in most cases the upgrading of
facilities to meet Serbian environment regulations, where necessary, will be the responsibility of buyers.
The planned PFSAC 11 will address the larger policy issues related to environmental liabilities and
consider ways to get the Republic of Serbia Government's commitment to remediation of past
environmental damages.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The FRY and Republic of Serbia governments are fully committed to the transformation of Serbia into a
full-fledged market economy and to its integration into the European Union. Recognizing difficulties and
risks involved, the authorities are determined to help Serbia's enterprise and financial sectors adjust to
the new market economy environment by completing the ownership transformation of inefficient and
insolvent SOEs and establishing a more competitive and service-oriented banking system that can
mobilize a rising level of financial resources and provide for the credit needs of a growing economy. The
striking difference in profitability (and by implication, productivity) between private and non-private
sectors provides a key rationale for the proposed strategy of enterprise reforrm.
The proposed project focuses on the most difficult part of this strategy, the restructuring and privatization
of the large loss-making SOEs. In addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, the unlocking of assets
held in this vast segment of the Serbian real sector and putting them to productive use will promote
development of a market-based economy with stronger governance, management, transparency, and
participation, which will all lead to sustainable economic growth. As in the case of the enterprise sector,
the reform of the financial sector aims to transfer assets of the state-owned troubled banks to new owners
who could use them productively. The second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit planned
for first half of 2003 will support these reforms at the policy level.
-22-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
>:'; '>'-,-'Risk-                               .   -Risk'Mlitig-aton-Mea'sure
From Outputs to Objective
Weakening commitment of the FRY and       S        Additional government revenue from
Republic of Serbia governments to                  privatization sales; in the longer term, reduced
restructure and privatize and/or liquidate         fiscal burden as a result of resolution of large
large loss-making SOEs and majority                loss-makers; in general, the authorities' desire
state-owned banks                                  to create full market economy and bring Serbia
to European Union. Specific objectives of
bank and SOE sector reforms have been laid
out in the LDP for PFSAC I and will be
included in Policy Matrix for PFSAC II
Parliamentary approval of new legislative  M       Legislative amendments to be included in
amendments may be problematic and                  Policy Matrix for PFSAC II
delayed
Labor opposition to the implementation    S        Government's framework Social Program
of restructuring program                           supported by adequate allocations from
republican budget
Political uncertainty at both the federal  S       Continuation of the policy dialogue at the
and republican level (unclear timing of            federal and republican levels
realization of future union of Serbia and
Montenegro; upcoming elections in
Serbia) could paralyze the
decision-making capacity on various key
policy issues instrumental to achieving
the project objectives
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate implementation capacity,       M        Project components to strengthen the capacity
constrained by shortage of prior                   of implementing agencies by financing local
experience in bank and enterprise                  and foreign expert advisors
restructuring
Creditors' opposition to the enterprise   S        Memorandum of understanding between the
restructuring program                              PA and BRA; discussions held with MOF to
ensure coordination of state creditors; passage
of relevant amendments to the Privatization
Law and the new Bankruptcy Law
Lack of interest from potential investors  S       Sustained public information campaign
supported by Bank and other donors
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 23 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Development Credit Agreement is duly ratified and effected by the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, as confirmed by the receipt of satisfactory legal opinion by the Bank.
Disbursement Conditions:
* Subsidiary Agreement is signed between the FRY Government and the Government of the
Republic of Serbia. The effectiveness of the Subsidiary Agreement will serve as a
disbursement condition for Part A of the Project.
*   Part A Implementation Agreement is signed between the Govenmment of the Republic of
Serbia and the PA. The effectiveness of this agreement will serve as a disbursement
condition for Part A of the Project.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* The PMUs are to maintain satisfactory FMSs, including records and accounts, and to prepare
financial statements in accordance with accounting standards satisfactory to the Bank; the
PMUs are to provide annual project accounts and institutional audits to the Bank within six
months of each fiscal year (with the audit to be carried out by independent auditors in
accordance with International Standards on Auditing, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank).
*   A mid-term review to be conducted by March 31, 2004 based on satisfactory TORs.
H. Readiness for Implementation
L0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[  1. b) Not applicable.
2 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
-24 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
rO 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approv .he project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Alexander Pankov                Khaled F. SheJi                 Christia'an J. Poortman
Team Leader                     Sector Manag /Director          Country Manager/Director
-25-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BAN)KS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Key Performance           Data Collectroa Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators'                                          CritiI al Assurmptiioni
Sector-related CAS Goal:      Sector Indicators:            Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Misslon)
Promote structural reform     Increase in private sector-led  National statistics          o No mnajor extemal shocks
and private sector-led economic  industrial growth                                          s Assets released from
growth                                                                                        loss-making SOEs and banks
will be put to productive use
through successful
privatization
c Availability of domestic and
intemational capital and
entrepreneurial skills
Project Development           Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (from Objectve o Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
Facilitate private sector-led  * Number and value of large  * Judgment by task team,      * Continuing commitment of the
economic growth through       enterprises restructured, and  confirmed by compliance with  authorities to reform of large
launching and implementing the  business units and assets or, if  respective PFSAC nI conditions  loss-making SOEs
restructuring and privatization  necessary, put into bankruptcy  * Review of policies, procedures, * Continuing commnitment of the
process of large              * Comprehensive qualitative   etc. emerging from and being  authorities to banking sector
problematic SOEs and          assessment of progress in     applied under the project     reform
implementing a comprehensive  implementation of restructuring
bank restructuring strategy   programs with respect to SOEs
and parts thereof, for which
privatization, restructuring or
bankruptcy was not completed,
and reasons for delays, if any
* Improved performance and
competence of the PA to
implement complex privatization
through restructuring strategy, as
measured by the use of best
practices, the number of
restructuring agents hired, and the
number of auctions and tenders
held
* Selection of banks for
rehabilitation/privatization or
liquidation track; number of
majority state-owned banks
privatized or put in liquidation
* Qualitative assessment of
progress in implementation of
bank liquidation, rehabilitation
and privatization
- 26-



* 4 .11 .r <.ttw ncq ) .DataiColfection Strategy |
Hierarchy ofObje ie o                       -1 -'  ndlcatorc .,ret,,;            rial Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Restructuring,and subsequent * Use of internationally  * Consultant reports;   * Sufficient interest from
privatization, or, if necessary, accepted best practices, the  * Bank supervision reports  potential buyers
bankruptcy, of a number of  number of restructuring agents                     * Creditors accept the
large SOEs and/or part thereof hired, and the number of                        restructuring plans
auctions and tenders held                            * Effective control and
* Number of business units                           monitoring of the activities of
and assets sold                                     the banks selected for
pre-privatization restructuring
Liquidation and/or         * Use of internationally                            * Adequate budget for
rehabilitation/privatization of accepted best practices, and                   operation of the Privatization
a select number of majority  the quality of financial                          Agency and Bank
state-owned banks         advisors hired                                       Rehabilitation Agency
Project Components     I   nputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Privatization through     US$ 8.0 million            * Progress reports submitted  * Timely appointment of
Restructuring of                                     by the PMUs at the PA and the restructuring agents
Socially-Owned Enterprises                           BRA to the Bank           * Timely recruitment of new
Bank supervision reports  qualified staff for the
Restructuring Unit at the PA
* PMUs' capability to
Bank Restructuring Program  US$ 3.0 million                                    perform procurement and
FMS activities required by the
project
-27 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF
BANKS AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
The proposed project will consist of the two major parts:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$8.00 million
Part A: Privatization through Restructuring of Socially-Owned Enterprises
The objective of this component is to provide urgent assistance to the Republic of Serbia for launching
and implementation of restructuring and privatization process for the most problematic large SOEs in
Serbia. Specifically, the component will seek to:
*   establish a consistent approach and methodology for the restructuring and subsequent
privatization of large problematic SOEs that cannot be sold in their current state;
*   support the restructuring and subsequent privatization of a number of large loss-making
enterprises by funding expert "restructuring agents" (i.e., investment banks, workout companies,
and consultancies) to prepare and implement "restructuring programs", privatize the saleable
business units using internationally accepted transparent sales techniques, and put the unsaleable
business units into bankruptcy;
*   increase the capacity of the Privatization Agency to work with the restructuring agents on the
preparation and implementation of the above-mentioned restructuring programs.
The Serbian restructuring strategy is an integral part of the Enterprise Privatization Framework agreed
with the Bank in the FRY/Republic of Serbia Letter of Development Policy for the PFSAC I. The above
framework is based on the Republic of Serbia Privatization Law adopted, with the Bank support, in June
2001. Under the Law, enterprises which cannot be sold through auction or tender are required to undergo
"restructuring for privatization" (Article 19, 20). These articles allow the PA to instruct the company to
prepare a restructuring program. The legal framework for the Republic of Serbia Govermnent's
restructuring strategy is further detailed in the by-law on restructuring. The by-law provides the
procedures for reorganization, dealing with creditors and debt, management of the company during
restructuring and deadlines for third parties to meet the requirements of the articles. In addition,
amendments to the Law on Enterprises have been adopted (supported by PFSAC I) that allow the
Privatization Agency to assume the powers of the managing bodies of enterprises which hinder or block
the privatization process. A modern Bankruptcy Law has also been drafted (supported by PFSAC II) and
is in the process of being distributed for comments.
With the help of the Bank, the MOEP and PA developed a restructuring model based on the segmentation
(in a typical case) of the company, incorporation of new companies created from the parts of the old one,
and sale of these new companies and of assets remaining after the break up. The underlying premise of
this exercise is that various subsidiaries and/or assets of LLMEs can be viable and attractive to potential
investors even if as a whole these conglomerates are presently non-viable and non-saleable. This model
will be based on a transaction oriented approach, where the ultimate sale of the enterprise or its various
viable parts drives the restructuring effort. There will be no attempt to continue operating these
enterprises in their present conglomerate form as either a socially- or state-owned entities.
- 28 -



According to the government strategy, the privatization through restructuring model will include
identification of independent business units (IBU) in each enterprise, their transformation into saleable
business units (SBU), and sale of SBUs and/or putting of unsaleable business units into bankruptcy. The
process can be divided into three stages: (i) a feasibility study and a due diligence report, serving as the
basis for preparation of the restructuring program; (ii) implementation of organizational and financial
restructuring, including (if necessary) the incorporation of new companies created from parts of the old
one and negotiations with creditors; and (iii) privatization of the SBUs by tender or auction, and
disposing of all other remaining assets through bankruptcy.
A.l.   Privatization through Restructuring of SOEs
This sub-component will cover the major part of costs (namely, the retainer and professional fees) of
engaging the expert restructuring agents (investmnent banks, consulting companies, workout companies
and other financial advisors) who will implement each of the above-mentioned three stages of
privatization through restructuring for a select number of SOEs. Companies may be offered to
restructuring agents either singly, or in small "pools" of two to four companies, with the objective of
capturing economies of scale and attracting top-rate international advisors.  In most cases, the
restructuring task will be led by the company responsible for the ultimate sale, leading a consortium of
experts, and working under close supervision of the Restructuring Unit of the PA. The success fees for
the restructuring agents, based on the sale of the successor companies and the remaining assets, will be
paid by the Republic of Serbia Government.
In accordance with the government strategy, the proposed project will focus on the select group of
companies in which saleable successor companies, units, parts or assets can be identified for
privatization. In other words, in view of the limited financial resources and the importance of having
early successful cases in the process, the project will concentrate on LLMEs which have assets or SBUs
with a higher potential for successful privatization transactions. The project will focus on, but will not
be limited to, the group of 47 SOEs identified by the Republic of Serbia Government as potential
candidates for privatization through restructuring. The list of SOEs to undergo privatization through
restructuring with the help of credit funds will be agreed upon between the PA and the Bank at the early
stage of project implementation ("the List"), and may be modified from time to time, but only upon the
explicit agreement of the Bank.
The SOEs on the List shall be restructured and privatized in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
i. When the PA receives a proposed restructuring program for each SOE, it shall make a decision
with respect to such a program within a timeframe provided under the Enterprise Privatization
Framework, and shall inform the Bank of its decision and rationale.
ii. For each SOE to be restructured and privatized, the PA shall submit to the Bank for review and
approval the following documents, which shall be prepared with the assistance of the
restructuring agents: (a) the restructuring program; (b) a list of potential bidders who have
expressed interest in bidding on all or parts of the SOE being restructured; (c) the draft
information memoranda, which shall include proposed criteria for pre-selection of bidders, and
proposed criteria for bid evaluation; (d) a report prepared by the restructuring agent on the
tender; and (e) auction privatization program for the SOEs, or parts thereof, that would be sold
through the auction procedure.
iii. The PA shall compare and evaluate all bids, and select the winner based exclusively on
established evaluation criteria, and price quotations with respect to auctions.  Direct
-29-



negotiations with respect to prices or other price related variables shall not be undertaken,
except in cases where a properly conducted international tender results in only one qualified
bid.
iv. At least 70 percent of the total capital of each SOE, or part of the SOE, on the List shall be
offered for sale to a strategic investor; the term "strategic investor" shall mean a legal entity
that: (a) is not, directly or indirectly, owned or controlled by the managers or employees of the
enterprise; and (b) has the required experience, resources and reputation, as determined by the
restructuring agent, and agreed upon by the MOEP/PA and the Bank.
v. The capital of the SOE to be transferred or made available, directly or indirectly, to the
employees or managers of the enterprise shall not exceed fifteen percent (15 percent) of the
total capital of the SOE, and shall not be so transferred until at least fifty percent (50 percent)
of the total capital of the SOE has been sold to the strategic investor;
vi. Republic of Serbia funds for payments to be made to redundant employees of the SOEs on the
List, to be made under applicable laws of the Republic of Serbia, shall be transferred to an
appropriate account in the Republic of Serbia Ministry of Labor and Employment, in a timely
manner, and in accordance with the requirements of the relevant restructuring program.
TOR for Restructuring Agents
The PA has developed general Terms of Reference (TOR) for the advisory work, which will be adapted
to each of the proposed candidate companies/pools of companies from the List. The objective of each
consulting assignment will be to assist the PA with preparation and implementation of the enterprise
restructuring and privatization by:
i. carrying out a comprehensive diagnostic and viability assessment of the company and its
subsidiaries/units, including due-diligence, and assessment of future prospects for
competitiveness, profitability and overall market potential of final products in order to identify
which units could operate independently (IBUs), and could have the required viability to operate
as going concems under private ownership;
ii. preparing a restructuring program for the company, designed to convert a maximum number of
identified IBUs into Saleable Business Units (SBUs) for privatization as going concerns. The
restructuring program will include: (a) a financial restructuring plan; (b) valuation according to
established principals of IBUs and other assets as appropriate, as this will impact on subsequent
restructuring and privatization decisions; (c) an organizational plan indicating optimal
employment levels and skills for the IBUs; (d) a legal plan identifying necessary measures
required to give the SBUs proper legal status for sale of their shares as going concerns; (e)
recommendations for the marketing and privatization mode (tender or auction) of each SBU; (f)
formulation of a strategy, for all other IBUs or other assets not identified 'as SBUs, that will
dispose of assets and shares through asset sale, liquidation, bankruptcy and/or other methods
appropriate for non-going concems; and (g) identification of any legal, regulatory or other factors
limiting the attractiveness of one or all of the selected SBUs to potential investors, including the
assessment of past enviromnental liabilities; and,
iii. finally, undertaking the agreed program of marketing and privatization, including signing of Sale
and Purchase contracts for successful tender sales, and providing appropriate support for the sale
of SBUs and surplus assets through public auctions.
- 30 -



A.2. Building the Institutional Capacity of the Privatization Agency
The Republic of Serbia Government has requested assistance to build the institutional competence of the
PA to carry out the privatization through restructuring of SOEs financed under the proposed project, as
well as by other donors. The PA is a nongovermmental body authorized to channel trust funds and grants
from donors and loan funds from the international financial institutions. In particular, the restructuring
agents engaged by the PA to implement the privatization through restructuring strategy would need to be
supervised by a competent professional staff within the PA, assisted by experienced foreign and local
advisors.
The PA management estimates that as the restructuring process gets fully underway, the newly
established Restructuring Unit within the PA would need to employ 10 to 12 project managers and 20 to
24 support staff. Given limited supply of relevant skills in the local market, the PA will actively solicit
interest from qualified Yugoslav nationals currently working abroad, as well as implement the
organizational restructuring measures to increase efficiency and facilitate internal growth within the
Agency. The PA has already engaged two senior international resident advisors on enterprise
restructuring using existing Bank grants.
This sub-component will provide technical assistance to build up institutional competence of the PA to
supervise the restructuring agents in the implementation of the above-mentioned restructuring programs.
The assistance will cover the following:
i. advisory services for establishing the Restructuring Unit within the PA capable of monitoring the
restructuring agents' performance, dealing with the enterprise creditors and employees, and
negotiating with potential investors; and,
ii. consulting services to enhance institutional capacity of the PA with foreign and local expert
advice and technical know-how for the restructuring and privatization process, including
preparation of the company profiles, development of TORs, facilitation of contracting and
bidding process for restructuring agents, organizing the creditors' meetings, and advising on
legal issues.
A.3.   Project Management and Implementation
This sub-component will support the work of the PMU already established in the PA, in the management,
implementation and monitoring of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the project, through the provision of services,
including the audit of records, accounts and financial statements, goods, and financing of incremental
operating costs, including PA staff salaries. The PMU will be responsible for carrying out the following
tasks:
i. plan, schedule and direct project activities in accordance with the Credit Agreement and
referenced documentation, and maintain an open and effective dialogue with Bank staff to realize
the efficient utilization of resources and timely achievement of project outcomes and objectives;
ii. monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process Credit disbursement
applications and track disbursements of the Credit and counterpart funding; maintain project
records and accounts; prepare physical and financial forecasts of future activities required to
implement the components and for inclusion in budgetary proposals;
iii. develop a procurement plan and ensure compliance with the Bank's procedures for the
procurement of goods and services, and the securing and administration of suppliers' and
technical assistance contracts in accordance with the Credit Agreement and World Bank
Procurement Guidelines;
- 31 -



iv. finalize TORs for the specialist services required in their respective areas of the project, prepare,
clear and issue solicitation documentation, prepare advertisements in local international media
for the recruitment of consultants, appoint bid evaluation committees, evaluate proposals
received for consulting services, obtain Bank approvals where required, and negotiate and
administer the award of supply contracts;
v. monitor the receipt of goods and services, identify and tap expertise, as needed, to assist in
activities such as preparation of detailed operating and financial control procedures, and update
implementation schedules; and,
vi. ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports (Progress Report) to the
relevant government and other participating institutions, including the World Bank, reflecting:
(a) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed;
and (b) current costs of component and estimated costs of completion; quarterly Financial
- Management System (FMS) reports, including annual and final audit reports of project
expenditures and the Special Account.
Project Component 2 - US$3.00 million
Part B: Bank Restructuring Program
This component is designed to support the bank restructuring strategy adopted by the FRY authorities in
May 2001 and confirmed in April 2002 during the negotiations for PFSAC I. The component will be
implemented in accordance with the FRY Government's Bank Resolution Framework, as defined by the
relevant laws, regulations, programs and institutions, as well as in accordance with the specific policy
commitments undertaken by the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments in the LDP for PFSAC I.
The restructuring strategy has three main elements: (a) liquidation of a large number of insolvent banks
implemented by the BRA, which is now a designated bankruptcy administrator (or receiver) for nine
banks (four of these banks were formerly the largest banks in Serbia); (b) privatization of a small number
(most likely no more than three) of the five banks which are presently in rehabilitation; and, (c)
privatization or liquidation of up- to thirteen additional banks which recently became majority
state-owned as a result of the conversion of Paris and London clubs debts into equity owned by the
Serbian state. The strategy is being implemented by the BRA which is expected to have about 25 banks
in various stages of resolution process (liquidation or privatization) under its control by end-2002.
The BRA has utilized significant quantities of consulting and technical assistance services in the
performance of its activities to date and is also assisted by a large team of resident advisers (provided by
donors) and through support provided from the Bank's FSD TA Grant. As a result the Agency has
developed significant experience in the effective management and use of consulting services. It intends to
make further use of such -services in order to complete its resolution tasks in a timely and efficient
manner. The proposed credit will continue to support the above-mentioned strategy by providing
technical assistance and operating resources to the BRA to execute the orderly and transparent
liquidation of insolvent banks, carry out the pre-privatization restructuring and management of banks
selected for privatization, and provide investment banking and legal support services for the privatization
process.
B.l.   Bank Liquidation, Rehabilitation and Privatization
Given the tight timeframe (first quarter of 2003) for initiation of the restructuring process for all of the
banks concerned, it is essential that the BRA be able to respond quickly to the specific resolution strategy
- 32 -



adopted for each bank. Due to the difficulty of determining in advance the privatization potential of the
banks which became become majority state-owned as a result of debt conversion and, simultaneously, the
strong possibility that the NBY will take actions which will result in additional banks being designated
for liquidation by the BRA, the technical assistance under this component will be provided through an
Indefinite Delivery Type contract in order to ensure the maximum flexibility in the use of resources by
the BRA. Under this type of contract, the Consultant/Consortium would be- capable of offering for the
decided tasks a series and/or combination of services, thus allowing the BRA to alter the mix of
resources in accordance with rapidly evolving needs. These services, provided by a mix of local and
foreign consultants, will be of four main types outlined below.
Pre-Privatization Support
Consulting services will be provided to conduct comprehensive diagnostic and statutory audits of banks
in BRA portfolio. These audits will serve as the basis for developing a plan for resolution of each bank
(e.g., immediate privatization, restructuring with subsequent privatization, or liquidation) with the
requirement that resolution of all banks begins in the first quarter of 2003. Accordingly, some asset
separations and/or consolidations within the bank portfolio may be required to create more attractive
franchises for potential investors.
Support for Privatization of Select Banks
Financial advisers will be engaged to handle all aspects of the privatization process for selected banks
that are deemed saleable. Contract funding under the credit will cover retainer fees and pre-privatization
expenses. The performance-based incentive fees would be paid by the BRA from the proceeds of
privatization transactions. Services to be provided by the financial advisers will include:
*   conducting market surveys to determine investor interest in the banks and preparation of a sales
strategy defining the recommended timing of the privatization process for selected banks;
*   supporting Bank management in day-to-day activities and decision-making leading to eventual
sale;
*   preparation of all required documents to launch the tender privatization process (information
memoranda, etc.),-
*   coordination and execution of the marketing and tender process for each bank;
*   providing advice to the BRA throughout the tender evaluation and selection process; and,
*   advice and assistance to the BRA during negotiations with investors.
Legal Support for the Bank Resolution Process
Local and/or international legal services will be required to support either the privatization or
liquidation of banks. Services to be provided will include:
*   for banks being privatized: legal due diligence; review of tender documentation (information
memoranda, tender notices, etc.), and clearance for compliance with applicable FRY and other
laws; and preparation and execution of the contract between the investor and the BRA/state for
the privatization of each bank; and,
*   for banks being liquidated: advice regarding receivership and BRA compliance with legal
requirements for receivership operations; ad hoc legal services to the BRA and receiverships in
areas such as civil and commercial law; conduct of legal defense and/or lawsuits on behalf of the
receiverships and the BRA; and, legal support for the sale of receivership assets.
-33 -



Receivership Support for Banks in Liquidation
Services would be provided to support the BRA in its role as designated receiver of banks in bankruptcy
and liquidation. These services would include administration of the receiverships' consolidation process,
and assisting in takeovers of banks newly designated for bankruptcy and/or liquidation. Specifically, such
services will be used for:
*   Securing bank records and property and prepare an accurate inventory of the assets and liabilities
of the bank;
*   Preparing a plan and budget for the operation of the receivership;
*   Dismissing bank staff not required for effective operation during the projected receivership;
*   Preparing and implementing an asset disposition plan for the receivership;
*   Executing the orderly and transparent sale and/or disposal of the receivership's assets; and,
*   Maintenance of accurate records of all aspects of the operation of the receivership in compliance
with applicable laws.
B.2.   Project Management and Implementation
Part B will be implemented by the PMU, already established at the BRA. This sub-component will
finance the incremental operational expenses of the PMU, including the consulting fees and audit costs.
Consultants financed by the credit will include project director, project administrator, procurement
specialist, and two disbursement/accounting specialists who are generally familiar with Bank
procurement, disbursement and reporting requirements from their previous work on WB FSD TA Grant.
They will carry out the following tasks:
i. plan, schedule and direct project activities in accordance with the Credit Agreement and
referenced documentation, and maintain an open and effective dialogue with the Bank staff to
realize the efficient utilization of resources and timely achievement of Project outcomes and
objectives;
ii. monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process Credit disbursement
applications and track disbursements of the Credit and counterpart funding; maintain project
records and accounts; prepare physical and financial forecasts of future activities required to
implement the components and for inclusion in budgetary proposals;
iii. develop a procurement plan and ensure compliance with the Bank's procedures for the
procurement of goods and services, and the securing and administration of suppliers' and
technical assistance contracts in accordance with the Credit Agreement and World Bank
Procurement Guidelines;
iv. finalize TORs for the specialist services required in their respective areas of the project, prepare,
clear and issue solicitation documentation, prepare advertisemcens in, e.g., intemational media,
for recruitment of consultants, appoint bid evaluation committees, evaluate proposals received
for consulting services, obtain Bank approvals where required, and negotiate and administer the
award of supply contracts; and,
v. ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports (Progress Report) to the
relevant government and other participating institutions, including the World Bank, reflecting:
(a) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered and corrective actions needed;
and (b) current costs of component and estimated costs of completion; quarterly Financial
Management System (FMS) reports, including annual and final audit reports of project
expenditures and the Special Account.
- 34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million   US $million  US $million
A. Privatization through Restructuring of Socially-Owned   2.58          8.31        10.89
Enterprises
B. Bank Restructuring Program                              0.53          3.56         4.09
Total Baseline Cost                                        3.11         11.87        14.98
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs1              3.11         11.87        14.98
Total Financing Required               3.11         11.87        14.98
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                        0.05          0.00          0.05
Services                                                     0.69          9.71         10.40
Incremental Operating Costs                                  2.03          0.00          2.03
PPF                                                          0.34          2.16         2.50
Total Project Costs       3.11         11.87         14.98
Total Financing Required      3.11          11.87        14.98
Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.83 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 12.14 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
90.59% of total project cost net of taxes.
-35 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Not applicable
- 36 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Not applicable
- 37 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Procurement
All Bank-financed procurement would be in accordance with Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999). Procurement of consulting services would follow Bank Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 as revised in September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002).
Procurement Responsibility
The procurement will be carried out by the PMU at the PA for Component A, and by the PMU at the
BRA for Component B. The responsibilities of the procurement specialists will include: (a) preparation
of procurement documents which require the Bank's prior review; (b) carrying out other procurement
actions; (c) preparation and submission of annual detailed procurement schedule; (d) annual update of
General Procurement Notice and preparation of Expressions of Interest; and (e) ensuring that the
procurement process is conducted based on principles of efficiency, economy and transparency.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the Agencies
During the project preparation an assessment of the PA and the BRA capacity to conduct procurement
was carried out taking into consideration the Country Procurement Assessment Report findings of June
2002. Both the PA and the BRA have been implementing Bank's TA Grants (Private Sector
Development and Financial Sector Development Grants, respectively) since July 2001, and thus have
acquired sufficient knowledge of the procurement process. In addition, these agencies have also
implemented a PHRD grant given for the preparation of PFSAC I. The PA is also implementing two
co-financing grants from the governments of Netherlands and Sweden to support complementary
activities of the above-mentioned PSD TA Grant. The implementing agencies have sufficient staff
earmarked for procurement and have demonstrated a good track record to date.
The proposed procurement activities under the new project are more of a continuation of the activities
under the earlier grant, and it is expected that the work would go on in a seamless manner. In both
agencies, the capacity has been augmented with additional staff to match the increase in work load.
Most of the staff in both agencies have received training from ILO (Turin center) on public procurement.
It is recommended that the new staff should also be sent for such training as and when the courses are
available.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice will be published by the end of November 2002 to announce bidding
opportunities under the project and invite interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest
and request additional infornation from the two implementing agencies. The General Procurement
Notice will be updated annually.
- 38 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods described below and their estimated amounts are summarized in Tables A and Al.
Threshold estimated contract values defining applicable procurement methods are indicated in Table B.
ComponentA (PA)
(i) Goods
Shopping (IS and NS) would be used to procure goods for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$50,000. For International Shopping, the PA shall
obtain quotations from at least three suppliers from at least two different countries, which may include
the home country. For National Shopping, the PA shall obtain price quotations from at least three local
suppliers before deciding on the award of the contract.
Prior and post review by the Association of goods contracts. All contracts for the supply of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the first three contracts irrespective of value, as
well as all contracts awarded without competition will be subject to prior review. All other contracts will
be subject to post review.
(ii) Consulting Services
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS, Para 3.17/-Banks" (Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers) would be used to hire consulting firms for
privatization through restructuring of socially-owned enterprises.
Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) would be used for the selection of consultants for
Capacity Building of the PA, with each contract less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$200,000.
Selection based on Least Cost (LCS) would be used for the selection of consultants to conduct audits of
PMU and project accounts, up to an aggregate amount of US$30,000.
Individual Consultants would be used for some of the activities for capacity building of the PA. The
selection would be in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of
US$310,000. The selection of individuals should be pursuant to seeking expressions of interest through
advertising in local press, and through the UN Development Business website for international
consultants.
(iii) Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental operating costs, including remuneration for the staff of PA, would be procured in accordance
with an annual budget and schedule agreed with the Bank in advance.
- 39 -



Component B (BRA)
(i) Consulting Services
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS, Para 3.17/"Banks" (Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers) would be used to hire a consulting firm for
Bank Restructuring and Privatization Services.
Selection based on Least Cost (LCS) would be used for the selection of consultants to conduct audits of
PMU and project accounts, up to an aggregate amount of US$30,000.
(ii) Incremental Operating Costs
Incremental Operating Costs, including remuneration of the staff of PMU, would be procured in
accordance with an annual budget and schedule agreed with the Bank in advance.
Prior and post review by the Association of the Consultant Contracts
All contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more per contract with finrs and
US$25,000 with individuals, will be subject to prior review.
All Terms of Reference will be subject to prior review.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions
The agreed procurement plan will be used as a basis for procurement monitoring. The key sets of TOR
for restructuring agents (Component A) and indefinite delivery type contract for bank resolution services
(Component B) have been drafted and agreed upon with counterparts. These draft TOR can be found in
the Project Implementation Plan.
-40 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
I '   -             Procurement Method
=<    r Category      4      Ic aNCEt .                   Other        Na.F.    f TtCost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00          0.05         0.00        0.05
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.05)       (0.00)      (0.05)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          8.27         2.12        10.39
(0.00)          (0.00)        (8.27)       (0.00)      (8.27)
Incremental Operating Costs         0.00            0.00          0.69          1.34       2.03
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.69)       (0.00)      (0.69)
Unallocated                         0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
PPF                                 0.00            0.00          1.99         0.51        2.50
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.99)       (0.00)      (1.99)
Total                             0.00            0.00         11.00         3.97        14.97
(0.00)          (0.00)        (11.00)      (0.00)      (11.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-41 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
; : ift * - : . , ~~~~Selection, Method ... 
Consultant Services                         leo    Method
Expenditure Categqry ;.QCBS.  QSS     5FB , LCS      CQ    ;Other - S.       a 7ost
A. Firms              7.70    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.20    0.00    1.99     9.95
(7.70)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.06)  (0.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (7.96)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.13     0.44
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.31)  (0.00)   (0.31)
Total  7.70    0.00    0.00    0.06    0.20    0.31    2.12     10.39
___________________  (7.70)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.06)  (0.20)  (0.31)  (0.00)   (8.27)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-42 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
. ,          .w7Contract valu::       t',             '6ntacts Subject to'
." a ... .... .Threshold              Procurement             Pjior Review
: xpenditugeCateg ory    (U$$ thousands)             MUethod              iUS$ millons)
1. Works
2. Goods                      >100,000                  ICB                     All
<50,000           Shopping (NS and IS)  First three+over US$1 OK
3. Services
4. (a) Individual             >25,000                  Indiv.                   All
<25,000                  Indiv.                 TORs
5. (b) FirTns                 >100,000                 QCBS                     All
<10,000                   LC                     TOR
>50,000                   CQ                      All
<50,000                                          TOR
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Given the high risk rating, post review will cover all contracts. The intensity may decrease in the
subsequent years depending on the progress of the project.
I\
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-43 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF
BANKS AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Financial Management Assessment Report (August 2002)
Executive Summary and Conclusion
The draft FRY CFAA report notes that there are a number of risks on the management of public
funds in the FRY. The risks to the public funds include: (a) poor public sector financial management in
the past; (b) unfinished reforms - while the new governments have initiated a major reform program, it is
still too early to say whether the reforms will be successful; (c) capacity constraints in both the FRY and
Republic of Serbia governments; (d) weak banking sector; (e) weak audit capacity; (f) poor
implementation capacity in line ministries; and (g) the lack of recent Bank implementation experiences
within the FRY. Since re-joining the membership of the World Bank, FRY has been using individual
implementation units for each investment project (traditional PMU model), located within the relevant
line ministries or project beneficiaries, to mitigate some of these risks. This arrangement is acceptable to
the Bank and the Bank has provided training on financial management and disbursements to the project
staff in March 2002.
It has been determined that the PMUs currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. The PMU's financial management systems are considered capable of satisfactorily
recording all transactions and balances and supporting the preparation of regular and reliable financial
statements. However, while the PA PMU has installed an integrated accounting software package, the
BRA PMU records project accounting data in both an Access database and on Excel spreadsheets and
manually combines the data to produce financial reports. The latter is inefficient and does not generate
an automatic audit trail.
Financial Management Assessment             Rating                           Comments
1. Implementing Entity                    Satisfactory   Each of the two implementing agencies is currently managing
a number of credits/grants for Bank-assisted projects
2. Funds Flow                              Satisfactory   Each PMU will operate its own Special Account Funds flows
will be similar to projects currently under implementation
3. Staffmg                                 Satisfactory   Expenenced financial team
4 Accounting Policies and Procedures       Satisfactory   Adequate financial manuals and policies. However, it has
been agreed that the manuals will be updated as part of a
plan to further strengthen financial management
5. Internal Audit                             NA         No reliance placed on internal audit
6. Extemal Audit                           Satisfactory  TORs for extemal audits have been agreed with each PMU
7. Reporting and Monitoring                Satisfactory  Both PMUs have prepared FMRs for current projects
8. Information Systems                     Satisfactory  The PA uses PAIS software. The BRA is currently
developing an in-house system. The BRA will evaluate the
benefits of continuing development of the in-house system
or of purchasing a system compatible with the system
installed at the PA
9. Disbursement                            Satisfactory   Both PMUs are, m respect of on-going project, compliant
with Bank disbursement requirements.
Overall Financial Management              Satisfactory
Rating
-44 -



Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires and Financial Management Supervision
reports relating to the implementation of current Bank projects are included in the project files.
Financial Management System Assessment
Project Management and Coordination
The project implementation will be coordinated by two PMUs, which have been established in the PA
and the BRA in Spring 2001 to implement the ongoing Bank's PSD TA and FSD TA Grants and a
number of other grants. The PMUs at the PA and the BRA will be separate and responsible for the
implementation and administration of their respective components. Both PMUs will finance their
respective components through two separately-established Special Accounts, and be responsible for the
monitoring of the use of funds for their respective components, including procurement and disbursement,
and reporting on the use of project funds. Each of the PMUs is headed by a Director, who will have
overall responsibility for the proposed project. The PMU Directors will ensure that all project objectives
and targets that can be monitored, as specified in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), are on track and
achieved. He/she is assisted by a Project Administrator, who will oversee the day-to-day operations of
the project. Technical expertise on a short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrators as
and when required. Each of the PMUs, apart from the Project Administrator, will include procurement,
disbursement and financial management specialists who will focus on the proposed project. The PMUs
will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project, procurement, and financial management,
including reporting to the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments and to the Bank.
Conclusion: The PMUs within the PA and the BRA have effective organization structures, which are
capable of managing the Project efficiently.
Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
The Finance Manager of the PA, who is also the head of the finance section of the PMU, is familiar with
financial and accounting systems as well as with Bank requirements. He, together with the disbursement
officer, will be responsible for all aspects of financial management and accounting for component A,
including managing the special accounts, maintaining books of accounts and reporting day-to-day
transactions. The BRA PMU accountant is familiar with financial and accounting systems as well as with
Bank requirements. Together with the disbursement officer, she will be responsible for all aspects of
financial management and accounting for component B, including managing the special accounts,
maintaining books of accounts and reporting day-to-day transactions.
Conclusion: The level and experience of staff within the PMUs is acceptable to the Bank.
Accounting and Internal Controls
As explained above, both PMUs have experience with Bank financed projects. They have established key
internal control mechanisms on the commitment and use of funds (preventative controls) but have not yet
fully implemented formal ex-post (detective) controls. Each PMU has an operations manual for their
on-going projects, describing the functions of each member of the PMU and the internal control structure
(including authorization limits, segregation of duties, regular reconciliation, etc.).
-45 -



Conclusion: Ex-ante (preventative) internal controls over funds are adequate. The systems will be
further strengthened by the introduction of ex-post (detective) controls over accounting and reporting.
Computerized Accounting Systems
The PA PMU has recently completed the installation of the PAIS accounting system which meets the
minimum reporting requirements of the Bank and is capable of automatically generating FMRs. The
system currently is currently installed on a single laptop computer; however, it has been agreed that the
database will be transferred to the PA's server to improve data security. The PMU will purchase an
additional license for the PAIS software for the new project.
The BRA is working towards completing an in-house system based around an Access database. In the
interim period, the PMU records project accounting data in both the Access database and on Excel
spreadsheets and manually combines the data to produce financial reports. This is not efficient and will
be further complicated by the need to consolidate the FMRs of the two PMUs for presentation to the
Bank. BRA will therefore evaluate the benefits of continuing the development of its in-house system or
purchasing a software package compatible with the system used by the PA PMU.
Conclusion: The PMUs have adequate accounting systems. However, the BRA's project accounting
system is inefficient and unable to generate standard reports. The BRA should evaluate the benefits of
continuing the development of its in-house system or purchasing a software package compatible with the
system used by the PA PMU.
Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
The BRA, which was established at the beginning of the 1990s, received an unqualified audit opinion
from Deloitte&Touche on its 2001 financial statements. Though not legally required to do so, the PA has
contracted with Ernst&Young to audit its 2001 financial statements; the results are expected during
September 2002. As part of the negotiations for the PSD TA and the FSD TA projects, the agencies have
agreed TORs for the audit of the project financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2002
(2001 audits were waived by the Bank due to the immateriality of transactions in that year).
Financial Manual
Both the BRA and the PA prepared financial manuals as part of the preparation and implementation of
the FSD TA and PSD TA projects. The manuals were reviewed by an FMS and were acceptable to the
Bank. However, as part of the preparation for the PRBE Project, the PMUs have revisited the manuals
and have further strengthened them through the introduction of "detective controls", including the use of
control checklist, regular reconciliation, etc.
Conclusion: The financial manuals have been reviewed by the bank and are satisfactory.
Conclusion
The PMUs have financial management systems which will meet the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements.
-46 -



Accounting and Financial Flows
The Bank would make funds available to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia under the Credit
Agreement, governing the terms and conditions of the proposed credit. The FRY Government would
on-lend the funds on IDA terms to the Government of the Republic of Serbia for implementation of
component A, based on the Subsidiary Credit Agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Financial Monitoring Reports
It has been agreed that the PMUs will prepare financial monitoring reports (FMRs) on a quarterly basis.
The reports will include:
*   Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*   Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*   Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*   Project progress report
*   Procurement report
Draft FMR formats have been included in the PIP. The first full set of FMRs is expected to be produced
for the period ending 31 March 2003.
Financial Risk Analysis
The overall financial management risk of this project is considered to be moderate. A summary of the
consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
Risk                                        Rating                         Comments
Inherent Risk
1. Country Financial Management Risk       Substantial  Based on draft CFAA, there is generally low financial
management capacity and accountability in the public sector
2. Project Financial Management Issues     Moderate    Low transaction volume. Primarily consultant contracts
Overall Inherent Risk    Moderate
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity                       Low       Existing PMUs currendy implementing projects
2. Funds Flow                              Moderate
3. Stafflng                                Moderate
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures       Moderate
5. Internal Audit                            N/A
6. External Audit                            N/A       First audits due for end 2002
7. Reporting and Monitonng                  Moderate
8. Information Systems                      Moderate
Overall Control Risk      Moderate
Costs and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes the IDA Credit, and the project's planned expenditures,
have been realistically estimated.
-47 -



2. Audit Arrangements
The PMUs will be responsible for ensuring that project financial statements, special accounts, and
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent international auditor, a member of a
professional body that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and acceptable
to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank. The annual project
audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit report shall be in a format in accordance
with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC). The audited financial statements of the implementing agencies and of the project will be sent to
the Bank within six (6) months of the end of the Republic of Serbia Government's fiscal year.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
It is expected that the proceeds of the credit will be disbursed over a period of 3.5 years, which includes
six months for the completion of accounts and the submission of withdrawal applications. The proposed
credit would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table C. The project completion
date is October 31, 2005 and the closing date is April 30, 2006. The estimate of the volume of
counterpart funds required to fully implement the project is based on the standard disbursement profile
for Serbia.
Disbursements from the IDA credit will follow the transaction-based method (i.e., the traditional Bank
procedures including reimbursements with full documentation, Statements of Expenditure, direct
payments and special commitments).
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Aiount in U5$million        Financing Percehtage
Goods under Part A of the Project         0.05                100%-local expenditures
95%-foreign expenditures
Consultants' services, including                             80% for services by firms
auditing services                                          70% for services by individuals
a) under Part A of the Project          5.39
b) under Part B of the Project          2.88
Incremental Operating Costs                                  87% until January 1, 2004;
70% thereafter
a) under Part A of the Project          0.57
b) under Part B of the Project          0.12
Refunding of Project Preparation          1.99         Amount due pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                                          of this Agreement
Total Project Costs                       11.00
Total                                    11.00 
-48 -



Project Preparation Facility
Due to the immediate need to start a number of preparation activities in order to ensure a smooth and
successful implementation of privatization through restructuring of large enterprises once- the project
becomes effective, the FRY received an advance through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance
in the amount of US$1,988,000. The PPF Letter of Agreement has been signed on July 5, 2002. The
closing date for the PPF will be February 28, 2003. The amount of the Advance withdrawn, together
with interest or service charge accrued thereon, as the case may be, shall be repaid by the Recipient to the
Bank from the credit proceeds. The refinancing of the PPF will occur after the effectiveness of the
credit. Any amounts not used for this purpose would be reallocated to other disburserment categories
following standard reallocation procedures.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the credit are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
as follows: (a) goods costing less than US$10,000 equivalent for each contract with the exception of the
first three contracts; (b) service contracts for individuals costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each
with the exception of the first contract; (c) service contracts for firms costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each with the exception of the first contract; and (d) all incremental operating costs, all under
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Disbursements against
goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective
procurement guidelines. Statements of expense will be certified locally by the PA for Component A and
by the BRA for Component B. Related documentation in support of statement of expenses will not be
submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PMUs for at least one year, after receipt by the Bank of
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made. The PMUs will make these
documents available to the auditors and supervision missions for review. If ineligible expenditures,
including those not justified by evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Account (SA), the
Bank will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until
the Recipient has refunded the amount involved; or (if the Bank agrees) submitted evidence of other
eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, two separate Special Accounts in Euro in local banks, satisfactory to
the Bank. One SA will be opened in the name of the PA, and will be used for implementation of
Component A; another SA will be opened in the name of the BRA and will be used for implementation
of Component B. The authorized allocation of the Special Accounts held by PA and BRA will be Euro
300,000 and Euro 100,000, respectively, representing approximately four months of eligible expenditures
of each PMUs. Upon effectiveness of the Credit Agreement, the initial deposits for the PA and BRA will
be Euro 150,000 and Euro 50,000, respectively. Further disbursements will need to have reached Euro
450,000 and Euro 150,000 for the PA and BRA respectively to be able to draw the authorized allocation
for the Special Accounts. Replenishment applications are to be submitted at least every three months and
must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Where the PMUs consider it efficient to open a local currency account, these should be opened in the
-49 -



same bank as the Special Account and should be used only for funds related to this project. The local
currency accounts will be primarily transaction accounts and balances should be kept to a minimum
Agreed Action Plan for PMUs
It has been determined that the PMUs currently satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. There are however a number of actions that the PMUs have agreed to take to improve their
financial management processes.
Action - PA                                                           Deadline
1. Update the financial manual, with supplementary section for this project, to  Completed
include a more comprehensive description of preventative and detective
internal controls
2. The PA will appoint an independent auditing firm, acceptable to the Bank,  Completed
to perform the annual audits of its financial statements
3. Begin the process of purchasing an additional licence for financial  End-November 2002
management software
4. Finalization of 2003 PA Budget, to include sufficient allocation of funds to  End-November 2002
the Project to meet the counterparts obligations under the Credit Agreement
Action - BRA                                                          Deadline
1. Populate the Access database with all transactions to date under the FSD  Completed
TA project, prepare a full set of FMRs for that project and reconcile the
transactions and balances to extemal data sources (bank statements and
transaction summaries from the Bank)
2. Update the financial manual, with supplementary section for this project, to  Completed
include a more comprehensive description of preventative and detective
intenal controls
3. Complete the implementation of the PMU's in-house accounting system OR End-November 2002
begin the process of purchasing a system compatible with that used by the PA
4. Finalization of 2003 BRA Budget, to include sufficient allocation of funds  End-November 2002
to the Project to meet the counterparts obligations under the Credit Agreement
Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the Belgrade-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports of the project and the implementing
agencies will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up. The field-based FMS would monitor the
agreed action plan to ensure appropriate actions have been implemented by the agencies.
- 50 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Schedule                                 Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     8                          9
First Bank mission (identification)           04/01/2002                  04/01/2002
Appraisal mission deparure                     07/01/2002                 07/01/2002
Negotiations                                  09/01/2002                  09/25/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 02/15/2003
Prepared by:
The World Bank, Privatization Agency, and Bank Rehabilitation Agency
Preparation assistance:
None
Bank staff who workced on the project Included:
-      -    [        ,kame - s;-  ! Speciality
Core Team
Alexander Pankov (ECSPF)         Task Team Leader, Operations Analyst
Gerardo Corrochano (ECSPF)       Program Team Leader (FSD), Lead FSD Specialist
Itzhak Goldberg (ECSPF)          Program Team Leader (PSD), Lead PSD Specialist
Jame R. Dick Welch (ECSPF)       Senior Privatization Specialist
Robert Gourley (ECSPF)           Senior Restructuring Specialist
Anna Sukiasyan (ECSPF)           Operations Analyst
Andrew Lovegrove (UK DFID)       Senior Bank Resolution Specialist
Gennady Pilch (LEGEC)            Sr. Counsel
Rama Chandran (ECSPF)            PAS
Michael Gascoyne (ECSPS)         FMS, Sr. Financial Analyst
Joseph Formoso (LOAG3)           Sr. Finance Officer
Quality Assurance
Paul Siegelbaum (ECSPF)          Sector Director
Khaled Sherif (ECSPF)            Sector Manager
Ira Liebernan (ECSPF)            Senior Advisor
Peer Reviewers
Charles E. Woodruff (Consultant)  Senior PSD Specialist
William Mako (EASPS)             Senior PSD/FSD Specialist
-51 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan includes the Terms of References for the implementation of technical
assistance.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoire                                 Identification Mission      April 2002
Aide Memoire                                 Pre-Appraisal Mission       July 2002
Procurement Capacity Assessment                                         August 2002
Financial Management Assessment                                         August 2002
C. Other
Proposed Timeline for Privatization through Restructuring of SOE on the "list of 47" (prepared by the
PA in October 2002).
*Including electronic files
- 52 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS AND ENTERPRISES
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
As of Date 11/06/2002
Diference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                  disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                              IBRD      IDA       SF      GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev d
P075189       2 EDUCIMPROVMT                                     1000      000                      10.62    070
P074136       2  EMG ELEC POWER RECN                              0 00     6 00                     3 39     2 70
P077473       3 EMG POWER LIC                                     500     0.00                      4.99     0 00
P074484       3 EXP FIN FAC                                      1150      000                      12.03    000
P074127        1 FIN SEC DEVT TA GRANT                            0.00    6.00                      3.23     200
P074618       2 MONTENEGRO ENV INFR.                              0.00    2.00                       2 00    0 00
P074145        1 PRIV SECT DEVT TA                                0 00     600                       3 64    2 50
P076764       3 SAC(MONTEGNEGRO)                                 1500      000                      1564     000
P074124       2 SOC ASST                                          0 00    10 00                      060     0.60
P074090       2 TRADE & TRANSPORT FA                              6 76     0.00                      7 36    0 10
Total:             48.26    30.00                     63 41     8 60
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 6/30/2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval           Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan   Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002                  Fresh & Co.                      7.17     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.78     0.00      0.00     0.00
1982/87              Igalo                             8.06     0.00     0.00     0.00     8.06     0.00      0.00     0.00
1985                 Jugobanka                         4.06     0.00     0.00     0.87     4.06     0.00      0.00     0.87
1980                 Monte Hotels                      2.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1980                 Radoje                            1.17     0.00     0.00     0.00     1.17     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002                 Raiffeisen Yug                    0.00     2.33     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.94      0.00     0.00
1980                 SMSE Yugo                         1.08     0.00     0.00     0.00      1.08    0.00      0.00     0.00
2002                 Tigar Tyre                       14.89     0.00     3.72     0.00      5.59    0.00      0.00     0.00
1987/89              Vojvodjanska                     38.09     0.00     0.00    18.94    38.09     0.00      0.00    18.94
Total Portfolio:          76.52      2.33     3.72     19.81    64.83     0.94     0.00    19.81
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval          Company                             Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic
2002                 MFB Yugoslavia                       4.00       1.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Comunitment:           4.00       1.00       0.00       0.00
- 53 -



A½ne2 lO: C      rtnerM    a Cancs
FlEDlEPL 1R1EPUBUC90 OF VUGO3UVh%SD: 1P'RUAMATWS(A MD11 1R1E$1RUCTURSHG OC)F 13AMNG
A1 ETR1RMD$E 3TCH=DAL A$Sg$TACIE PROJECT
-              .                           Eu70o a   Le~r-:.                           --         -
POViERTY anld SOCL4-LDEb* Con@d id<' MI,: 
-Fc. sop.  _-oa -t!ncemo     Dovolop=nt dlmond`
200i
Population, mid-year (mlillons)   -10.6                475     Z2046             LUfe expectancy
GNPpetrcaplta(Atlasnwftho, US$) 1.:       -   980 '2,010       1,140
GNP(Alfasmsth,'US$bllOnsM) llx                10.S     956    2,327
Av6rcso cnnud Broftfi, S9S64S.1
Populabtion (%)                                0.1      0.1     1.0    G
Labor force(%)                                 0.5     :0.6     1.3    GNI         /Jj.            Grss
.:  ..   ..I' .                         per                        primary
Moct rca ootlmcro (IC=o y-ro vfkl!o, %89-9)                -           capita                  enrollment
Poerty(% of ppwulati bslx.'nalonalpovaflylhe)s -=- -,     ,       . 
Urban population (% of total popudatoh,)      .52       67 -     42
Lib' xpectancyat.blrth'(yaa&r)  , .  : . .-- . -  - 72  69       69.
InJantmortality (par 100I bIh2 hs)              13      21       32
'Chliid'malnutHtion (%  hidffSf tmda-r5);       *2       ..                 Aco1ss to Improved water source
Access to an improved watar source (1% of populllo,n)  - . -O    80
literacy aofpopulaIon eV 15D)   '               -        3       15
Gross primary enrolmant (%ofschopuleon)         69      10iO0   114          -ugoelava.FR (Serb. Wont.)
' Mala-6 ,- , 89                                    - 101     116           Lower-middle-ncoms grmup
iemab                    '           --       70       99     114
KEY ECOXOtLC RQTtOS cnd LONG-712M TR1END5
loci    195i     2cu3    2001
-  Economtc rcrtfoo
GDP (US$blillOns)                      A-   .     -     8.     '10.9
Goss domastIcInvestmentIG1,P                           14.5. -- 13:5
Exorts of goods and srvioas/GODP  ,--                  31.6   2. -,4
Gfossrdomastlc savln9s/GDP              .-       ;       5      -8.6
Gross,nat!onalsaevngsGD.P                              10.3. .    0
Cur ent account balanbslGDP, -         -   '           -5.0    -5.5   -Dmc           '   .
Inteest payments/GDP. 2/              0..6                      07      estic                   Inv0stment
savig
Total dabyGDP -                                      ;1414-    106.8<:    ng
Totaidebt srvicelexports 2 1--' :                       22      1.0
Preseant value of debt/GDP
Pr6einivalua daebUfporta             r   ;       ;       +v.! 
p Lntvatueo~debtMi~poe  1              !   . ,' !    i '     'Indebtedness
--*  .  IeGI-CI 1~14¶e,As-'  2   200   200145
GDP     ,    _ ,o,:,.)                  ..     5.            .5      .         Yugosavia, FR (SerbJAont.)
GDP psr pte                      .             49     -.-I  -.4'  3.8          Lowa,r4rdddo-income group
Exports of goodsandsc    - , e. '             34.8      9.A  ,:_ tO
-54-



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1989      2000     2001     Growth of Investrnent and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  ..     10.1     17.6              10
Industry                                     ..    43.1      37.6        ..
Manufacturing                              ..       ..        ..  *10             9a    97    98 oo      0    0
Services                                     ..     46.8     44.8        ..    -20
Private consumption                          ..      ..      85.0      90.2    -40
General government consumption               ..              18.5      18.4
Imports of goods and services                ..              49.6      47.5                   GDI       GDP
1981-41  1991401     2000      2001     Growth of exports and tmpoarts (%)
(average annual grwth)
Agriculiture                                 ..       ..    -20.0      25.0    40
Industry                                     ..      ..      10.9       0.0    20
Manufacturing                              ..       ..        ..       .. 
Services                                     ..0. ..                     ..    80            87  98         00   01
Private consumption                          ..      ..      20.0      14.8   -40
General government consumption               ..      ..     -24.5       5.2    zo
Gross domestic Investment                     .       ..     17.5       5.8              -ENqfl      -,    Impons
Imports of goods and services                ..      ..      28.6      30.0
Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (In bold) compared with its Income-group average. Itf data are missing. the diamond will
be Incomplete
1/ Estimate for 2000; excludes Kosovo and Is calculated using the market exchange rate. 21 On a cash basis.
- 55-






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31506
I 180              190                 20                 210                220                 230
HUN        ARY                                                   FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Pecse  rT7  _sa *r  _Arod             OF YUGOSLAVIA
Pecs                     o
460    Mo~~~h6cs                        anioEUROPEAN HIGH-WAYS                                    A460
Bodca k                                              RAILWAYS
So > /mbor PT p  Adoo                    Timi1ooro        AIRPORTS
0   TOWNS
in               t Srbo 0D/                            ®   REPUBLIC OR PROVINCE CAPITALS
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
-  'fS   ;  k  t-/  toS  <s   ri^9t                 69   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITALS
- 450)                                                    e      l0                                   45° P
fBOSNIA AND too
HERZEGOVINA              Plank                                                  INERATO      B
/                          ek  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16nac ,
430                         Bi1elo P,>la
__s ~ 4i- . iBr k                                       FYR            MACEDO NIA
Edo  A e-- S A  ..;;                                        212
DECEMBER 2001









NNMANG
Report No.:        25064   YU
Type:     PA



