Report No. PID11316
Project Name             YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF-PRIVATIZATION (@)
AND RESTRUCTURING OF BANKS
AND ENTERPRISES TA CREDIT
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   General industry and trade sector (50%);
Banking (50%)
Project ID               P077732
Borrower(s)              FRY
Implementing Agency      PRIVAT. AGENCY (SERBIA)/BANK
REHABILITATION AGENCY (YF)
Privatization Agency of the Republic
of Servia (PA)
Address: Terazije 23, Belgrade,
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Contact Person: Mr. Vladimir Cupic,
Acting Director, Privatization Agency
Tel: 381 (11) 30 20 800
Fax: 381 (11) 32 48 375
Email: vcupic@pa-serbia.co-yu
Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (BRA)
Address: Trg. Nicole Pasica 10/III,
Belgrade, Federal Reppublic of
Yugoslaiva
Contact Person: Ms. Vesna Dzinic,
Executive Director, Bank Rehabilitation
Agency
Tel: 381 (11) 32 42 987
Email: info@bra.gov.yu
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        November 5, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      September 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date       December 10, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Serbia embarked on its renewed transition with a socially-owned enterprise
(SOE) sector that is thoroughly accustomed to soft budget constraints and,
as a result, inefficiently organized, substantially loss-making and
excessively indebted. To address the severely deteriorated situation at
large SOEs, the Government launched an ambitious restructuring through
privatization program, dealing with companies that must be restructured
before sale because they are too complex in organization, encumbered by
heavy debt that must be worked out, and generally unattractive to
investors in their present state. At the same time, the authorities
launched an ambitious bank resolution strategy aimed at facilitating
economic recovery by creating a healthy banking sector capable of
providing financial intermediation services on a sustainable basis.



2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to facilitate private sector-led
economic growth in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and the
Republic of Serbia through: (i) launching and implementation of the
restructuring and privatization process of some of the most problematic
large socially owned enterprises; and (ii) implementation of a
comprehensive banking sector restructuring strategy aimed at the creation
of a more viable financial sector. Specifically, the project will:
n Establish a consistent approach and methodology for the restructuring
and privatization process of large SOEs that cannot be sold in their
current state.
n Support the restructuring and subsequent privatization of a number of
large loss-making enterprises by funding expert "restructuring agents"
(i.e., investment banks, workout companies, and qualified consultancies)
to prepare and implement "restructuring programs", privatize the saleable
business units using internationally accepted transparent sales
techniques, and put the unsaleable business units into bankruptcy.
n Increase the capacity of the Restructuring Unit at the Privatization
Agency (PA) to supervise the restructuring agents in the implementation of
the above mentioned privatization through restructuring programs.
n Support the restructuring or liquidation of insolvent banks under the
control of Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) and the privatization of most
state-majority owned banks.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Because of limited Bank resources for Serbia and the large financing role
of other donors, our strategy is based on two principles: (i) investing in
areas where the Bank has a comparative advantage; and (ii) investing in
strategic areas for private and financial sector development. The Bank has
extensive knowledge and experience in the bank and enterprise
privatization and restructuring process in formerly communist countries,
including, by now, Serbia (WB Private and Financial Sector Development TA
Grants). It is thus in a unique position to furnish best practices advice
on how to deal with large loss-making SOEs and state-owned troubled banks.
The Bank will also assist in implementation of the project through
hands-on supervision and imparting knowledge of project management methods
to Serbian counterparts. It is anticipated that other donors will share
the model supported by the proposed TA credit as a result of demonstration
effect from the first successful cases of privatization through
restructuring.
4. Description
The proposed project provides technical assistance (consultant services
and goods) and consists of two main components:
Part A. Privatization through Restructuring of SOEs
Under this component, funding will be provided for technical assistance to
the PA to support privatization through restructuring of a number of large
SOEs using internationally reputed restructuring agents hired through
competitive tenders. In accordance with the government strategy, the
proposed project will focus on the select group of companies in which
saleable successor companies, units, parts or assets can be identified for
privatization. The project will focus on, but will not be limited to, the
- 2-



group of 47 SOEs identified by the Republic of Serbia Government as
potential candidates for privatization through restructuring.
A.1. Privatization through Restructuring of Socially Owned Enterprises
This sub-component will cover the major part of costs (namely, the
retainer fee) of engaging the expert restructuring agents - investment
banks, consulting companies, workout firms and other financial advisors -
to implement each of the above-mentioned three stages of restructuring
using transparent internationally accepted procedures. Companies may be
offered to agents either individually or in small "pools" of two to four
companies. The success fee of the restructuring agents, based on the sale
of the successor companies and the remaining assets will be paid by the
Republic of Serbia Government.
A.2. Building the Institutional Capacity of the PA
This sub-component will provide technical assistance to build up
institutional competence of the PA to supervise the restructuring agents
in the preparation and implementation of the above-mentioned restructuring
programs. The assistance will cover the following:
i. Advisory services for establishing the Restructuring Unit within the PA
capable of monitoring the restructuring agents' performance, dealing with
the enterprise creditors and employees, and negotiating with potential
investors; and,
ii. Consulting services to enhance institutional capacity of the PA with
foreign and local expert advice and technical know-how for the
restructuring and privatization process, including preparation of the
company profiles, development of TORs, facilitation of contracting and
bidding process for restructuring agents, organizing the creditors'
meetings, and advising on legal issues.
A.3. Project Management and Implementation
This sub-component will support the work of the Project Management Unit
(PMU), already established in the PA. The assistance will finance the
immediate operational expenses of the PMU, including the PA staff
salaries, cost of advertising in the international press for the
recruitment of top-quality restructuring agents, and audit expenses.
Part B. Bank Restructuring Program
This component will support the continued implementation of the bank
restructuring and privatization program by the BRA.
B.1. Bank Liquidation, Rehabilitation and Privatization
This sub-component will cover the following:
i. Consulting services to provide operational support for receiverships
for insolvent banks currently in the BRA portfolio;
ii. Consulting services to undertake the implementation of stabilization,
rehabilitation and pre-privatization activities for state-owned banks in
BRA portfolio that have been selected for privatization; and,
iii. Services of financial advisors to undertake the marketing and
-3 -



implementation of privatization tenders for state-majority owned banks
under the control of the BRA.
B.2. Project Management and Implementation
This sub-component will support the work of the PMU, already established
at the BRA. The assistance will finance the immediate operational
expenses of the PMU, including the PMU staff salaries and audit expenses.
Privatization through Restructuring of Socially Owned Enterprises
Bank Restructuring Program
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $3.98
IBRD
IDA                      $11.00
Total Project Cost       $14.98
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a 36-month period. The PA and BRA,
will be the main counterparts for Parts A and B of the project,
respectively. The general policy guidance will be provided by the MOEP
and NBY for Parts A and B of the project, respectively. The project
implementation will be effected by the two PMUs, which have been
established in the PA and the BRA in Spring 2001 to implement the ongoing
WB PSD TA and FSD TA Grants, respectively, and a number of other grants.
The PMUs at the PA and the BRA will be fully separate, and responsible for
the implementation and administration of their components (A and B,
respectively). Both PMUs will finance their respective components through
two separately-established Special Accounts and will be responsible for
monitoring the use of funds for their respective components, including
procurement and disbursement, and reporting on the use of project funds to
the FRY and Republic of Serbia governments and to the Bank. Each PMU is
headed by a Director, who will have overall responsibility for his/her
respective component of the proposed project. The PMU Directors will
ensure that all project objectives and targets are on track and achieved.
He/she is assisted by a Project Administrator, who will oversee day-to-day
operations under the component. Technical expertise on a short-term basis
will be provided to the Project Administrators as required. Each PMU will
include procurement, disbursement and financial management specialists who
will work on the proposed project.
7. Sustainability
The FRY and Republic of Serbia governments are fully committed to the
transformation of Serbia into a full-fledged market economy and to its
integration into the European Union. Recognizing difficulties and risks
involved, it is determined to help Serbia's enterprise and financial
sectors adjust to the new market-economy environment by completing the
ownership transformation of inefficient and insolvent SOEs and
establishing a more competitive and service oriented banking system that
can mobilize a rising level of financial resources and provide for the
credit needs of a growing economy. The striking difference in
profitability (and by implication, productivity) between private and
non-private sectors provides a key rationale for the proposed strategy of
enterprise reform. The proposed project focuses on the most difficult
- 4 -



part of this strategy, i.e., restructuring and privatization of the large
loss-making SOEs. In addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, the
unlocking of assets held in this key segment of the Serbian real sector
and putting them to productive use will promote development of a
market-based economy with stronger governance, management, transparency,
and participation, which will all lead to sustainable economic growth. As
in the case of the enterprise sector, the reform of the financial sector
aims to transfer assets of the state-owned troubled banks to new owners
who could use them productively. The second Private and Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (PFSAC II) planned for FY'03 will support these reforms
at the policy level.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank experience in other transition economies has demonstrated that
adequate institutional framework is an essential condition for the success
of broad-based structural reforms. Lessons learned in the transition
process indicate that institutional reform should be a key component of an
early assistance strategy. Accordingly, the proposed Credit emphasizes
developing the local institutional capacity, thus creating the foundation
for the future structural reforms.
The project design also reflects some useful lessons from Bank's
experience in the area of SOE sector reform in the past decade, as
discussed in numerous retrospective policy studies and debates. Transition
experience elsewhere has shown that dealing with country's large
loss-making politically sensitive enterprises is one of the most difficult
steps in the reform process and almost always requires special
arrangements. As experiences in other economies have also demonstrated,
unless the sale of productive assets is seen as the ultimate goal of
restructuring, restructuring does not produce the expected results and the
troubled enterprises remain a drain on the budget and a social liability.
Another lesson is the need for an integrated approach to reform private
and financial sectors.    The real sector cannot operate without an
effective banking sector encouraging domestic savings and generating the
working capital and investment finance. At the same time, financial
sector cannot gain acceptable returns or diversify its risks between
retail and corporate credit without a functioning real sector. Very
importantly, only an efficient financial sector is capable of ensuring
financial discipline and channeling resources towards good investment
opportunities. The linkages between the PSD and FSD sector reforms
supported under PFSAC I and II will be crucial to the success of bank and
enterprise privatizations under the proposed project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        As the project is a technical assistance credit and
does not involve any physical investments, it will have minimal or no
adverse direct environmental impact. However, due attention will be given
to environmental liability and compliance issues during the privatization
process. Within the framework of the project, environmental assessment
studies would be undertaken by qualified experts for each company that is
to be sold. In each case, environmental assessment will ascertain past
liabilities and future environmental obligations, and its results will be
made available to potential investors as part of the information
memorandum for each enterprise put on sale. Under the proposed amendments
- 5-



to the Privatization Law, prepared in coordination with the Ministry of
Environment, the state will be responsible for environmental remediation
for past environmental damage. While subject to negotiation, it is
expected that in most cases the upgrading of facilities to meet Serbian
environment regulations, where necessary, will be the responsibility of
buyers. The planned PFSAC II will address the larger policy issues related
to environmental liabilities and consider ways to get Republic of Serbia
Government's commitment for remediation of past environmental damages. An
Environmental Management Plan is not needed; however, the terms of
reference for environmental audits have been prepared and will be included
in the overall TOR for the restructuring agents. In accordance with the
Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex
E), the proposed project is expected to be placed in Category "C".
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alexander Pankov
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7128
Fax: 202-522-0073
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 15, 2002.
-6-



