ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorhi dFrc of Posvrty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 09/06/2002                                   24785
Section I-Basic Information                                      September 6, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF                Project ID: P077732
Project: PRIVATIZATION AND RESTRUCTURING         Task Team Leader: Alexander Pankov
OF BANKS AND ENTERPRISES TA CREDIT
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 20, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: October 31, 2002                  IDA Amount ($m): I 1.00
Managing Unit: ECSPF                             Sector: General industry and trade sector (50%);
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Banking (50%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and
privatizat (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the proposed project is to provide assistance to the Republic of Serbia in an effort to
facilitate private sector-led economic growth by: (i) launching the restructuring and privatization process
of some of the most problematic large socially owned enterprises (SOEs) in Serbia; and (ii) supporting
the implementation of a comprehensive banking sector restructuring strategy aimed at the creation of a
viable financial sector. Specifically, the project would:
*      Establish a consistent approach and methodology for the restructuring and privatization process
of large SOEs that cannot be sold "as is".
*      Support the restructuring and subsequent privatization of a number of large loss-making
enterprises by funding expert "restructuring agents" (i.e., investment banks, workout companies, and
qualified consultancies) to prepare and implement "privatization through restructuring" plans, and
privatize the saleable business units and sell the remaining assets.
*      Build the capacity of the Restructuring Unit at the Privatization Agency (PA) to supervise the
restructuring agents in the imnplementation of the above mentioned privatization through restructuring
plans.
*      Support the restructuring or liquidation of insolvent banks under the control of Bank
Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) and the privatization of all state-majority owned banks.
I.A.3. Project Description:
A.     Privatization tlhrough Restructuring of Socially Owned Enterprises
Under this component, funding will be provided for technical assistance to the PA to support
privatization through restructuring of a number of large SOEs using internationally reputed restructuring



2
ISDS
agents hired through competitive tenders.
A. 1.  Privatization through Restructuring of Socially Owned Enterprises
This sub-component will cover the major part of costs (namely, the retainer fee) of engaging the expert
restructuring agents - investment banks, consulting companies, workout firms and other financial
advisors - to implement each of the above-mentioned three stages of restructuring. Companies may be
offered to agents either singly or in small "pools" of two to four companies. The success fee of the
restructuring/sales agents, based on the sale of the successor companies and the remaining assets will be
paid by the Government.
A.2.   Building the Institutional Capacity of the Restructuring Unit
This sub-component will provide technical assistance to build up institutional competence of the PA to
supervise  the  restructuring  agents  in  the  implementation  of  the   above-mentioned
restructuring/privatization plans. The assistance will cover the following:
i.     Advisory services for establishing the Restructuring Unit at the PA capable of monitoring the
restructuring agents' performance, dealing with the enterprise creditors and employees, and negotiating
with potential investors;
ii.    Consulting services to enhance institutional capacity of the Restructuring Unit with foreign and
local expert advice and technical know-how for the restructuring and privatization process, including
preparation of the company profiles, development of TORs, facilitation of contracting and bidding
process for restructuring agents, organizing the creditors' meetings, and advising on legal issues; and
iii.   Procurement of hardware and software for the operation of the Restructuring Unit.
A. 3.  Project Management and Implementation
This sub-component will support the work of the Project Management Unit (PMU), already established
at the PA. The assistance will finance the following:
i.     Four local specialists: project administrator, two procurement specialists, and one
disbursement/accounting specialist; and
ii.    Immediate operational expenses of the PMNU, including the cost of advertising in the international
press for the recruitment of top-quality restructuring agents, and audit expenses.
B.     Bank Restructuring Program
This component will support the continued implementation of the bank restructuring and privatization
program by the BRA.
B. 1.  Bank Liquidation, Rehabilitation and Privatization
This sub-component will cover the following:
i.   Consulting services to provide operational support for receiverships for insolvent banks
currently in the BRA portfolio;
ii.  Consulting services to undertake the implementation of stabilization, rehabilitation and
pre-privatization activities for state-owned banks in BRA portfolio that have been selected
for privatization; and,



3
ISDS
iii.  Financial advisors to undertake the marketing and implementation of privatization tenders
for state-majority owned banks under the control of the BRA.
B.2.   Project Management and Implementation
This sub-component will support the work of the Project Management Unit (PMU), already established
at the BRA. The assistance will finance the following:
i.   Four local specialists: project director, project administrator, procurement specialist, and
disbursement/accounting specialist; and
ii.  Immediate operational expenses of the PMU, including audit expenses.
Components:
A.     Privatization through Restructuring of Socially Owned Enterprises
B.     Bank Restructuring Program
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project would set in motion a privatization process for a group of large enterprises across Serbia that
could ultimately have some environmental effect. However, none of the enterprises scheduled for
privatization are located in proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical natural habitats, or any other
culturally or socially sensitive areas.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: In accorance with the Bank's OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment, the project is assigned
environmental category Fl as the enterprises to be privatized/restructured will be decided after project
implementation begins. The environmental section of the operations manual describing procedures and
arrangements to address environmental liability issues under the project will be submitted to ECSSD for
review prior to Appraisal.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes C No    0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No    0 TBD



4
ISDS
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                              C: Yes 0 No   CD TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                O Yes *No -C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes 0 No    C TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes * No    O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes * No    C TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                C 'Yes * No   'C TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          O Yes * No    0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No    C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The environmental concerns primarily relate to environmental liability and compliance issues during the
privatization of the socially-owned enterprises.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Not applicable
II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Not applicable
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable
Il.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The project does not involve any physical investments with direct environmental impacts; however, due
attention will be given to environmental liability and compliance issues during the privatization process.
As is the case in the tender privatization program undertaken by the Privatization Agency under existing
WB PSD TA Grant, it was agreed with the Government that environmental assessment studies would be
undertaken for each company that is to be sold under the proposed project. The PA will allocate funds
to develop capacity in environmental screening where required and be able to call on private
sector companies to undertake specialist assessment studies. The studies will be conducted by the
qualified local and foreign firms, working under the guidance of restructuring agents responsible for
preparation of privatization program for each enterprise. In each case, the environmental assessment will
ascertain past liabilities and future environmental obligations, and its results will be made available to
potential investors as part of the information memorandum for each enterprise put on sale. The
Privatization Agency will share the assessment results with the Ministry of Environment to ensure that
the compliance plans are prepared according to the standards of Serbia's environmental legislation.
It was agreed with the Government that both the policies and regulatory aspects of environmental liability in
privatization, and the environmental policies and procedures for implementing these regulations would be
reviewed and, if necessary, strengthened. Under the proposed amendments to the Privatization Law,
prepared in coordination with the Ministry of Environment, the state will be responsible for environmental



5
ISDS
remediation for past environmental damage. The World Bank will support these amendments in the context
of the next adjustment operation (PFSAC 2), which is scheduled for 1st quarter of 2003). While subject to
negotiation, it is expected that in most cases the upgrading of facilities to meet Serbian environment
regulations, where necessary, will be the responsibility of buyers.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and Employment, and the business
community are other key stakeholders who have also been involved in the design of the proposed project.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. - No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



6
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 9/15/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             9/15/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                              9/16/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework.                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Alexander Pankov                            September 3, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Marjory-Anne Bromhead                    September 6, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Khaled F. Sherif                            September 6, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SLARCH      j FEEDOArK     -' iUAP _         HOWUCASE U



