Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3723 YF 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and 
Enterprises Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 17, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3723 YF 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 17, 2003, between SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) the Borrower will make available to the Government of the Republic of 
Serbia, through the Part A Sub-credit Agreement (as defined hereinafter), the proceeds of 
the Credit, as provided in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Bank Resolution Framework” means the Borrower’s laws, regulations 
and programs, and agencies and institutions, related to bank rehabilitation, privatization 
and liquidation; 
 
(b) 
“BRA” means the Bank Rehabilitation Agency of the Republic of Serbia, 
or any successor thereto; 
 
(c) 
“BRA PMU” means a unit established within the BRA and referred to in 
Part B.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“Enterprise Privatization Framework” means the Republic of Serbia’s 
privatization laws and regulations, and related agencies and institutions; 
 
(e) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty of European Union; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“MOEP” means the Republic of Serbia’s Ministry of Economy and 
Privatization, or any successor thereto; 
 
(h) 
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
adopted by the PA, and setting forth rules and procedures related to the implementation  
of Part A of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(i) 
“PA” means the Privatization Agency of the Republic of Serbia, or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(j)  
“PA PMU” means a unit established within the PA and referred to in Part 
A.3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, or any successor thereto; 
 
(k) 
“Part A Implementation Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
between the Republic of Serbia and the PA, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Part A Implementation Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Part A Sub-credit Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
between the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Part A Sub-credit Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the 
Association on July 14, 2002, and on behalf of the Borrower on July 5, 2002;  
 
(n) 
“Restructuring Program” means a SOE-specific program to be adopted 
by the PA in accordance with the Republic of Serbia Privatization Law, dated June 27, 
2001 and Government of the Republic of Serbia Decree on the Procedure and Manner of 
Restructuring of Enterprises and Other Legal Entities, number 110-151/2002, dated 
January 15, 2002; and 
 
(o) 
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred in Section 2.02 (b) of  
this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
8,400,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for  expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and incremental operating costs 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each Part A and Part B of 
the Project, open and maintain in Euro, separate special deposit accounts in a 
bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of each Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay 
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the 
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 2006, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
Page  6
-
4
-
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and  November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 
2013, and ending November 1, 2022. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such 
principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. The Euro is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall carry out Part B of the Project through the BRA, 
and shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia carries out Part A of the Project through the 
PA, or other relevant agencies, all with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a), and 
except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
and the Republic of Serbia, in order to ensure the implementation of the Project 
and the achievement of Project objectives, shall implement the Enterprise 
Privatization Framework and Bank Resolution Framework, as applicable, in a 
Page  7
-
5
-
timely and effective manner, in accordance with the terms and conditions, and 
under the procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a), and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, in order to ensure the implementation of Part A of the Project, shall: (i) 
make the proceeds of the Credit equivalent to SDR 6,130,000 available to the 
Republic of Serbia, under a sub-credit agreement (Part A Sub-credit Agreement), 
to be entered between the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association; (ii) ensure that the 
Republic of Serbia ensures that the PA: (A) undertakes to implement Part A of the 
Project, under an implementation agreement (Part A Implementation Agreement), 
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
including, the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2; and (B) 
maintains, during the term of the Project, the PA PMU, with staff and resources 
necessary and appropriate for Part A of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Part A Sub-credit 
Agreement, and ensure that the Republic of Serbia exercises its rights under the Part A 
Implementation Agreement, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal 
or waive the Part A Sub-credit Agreement, or any provision thereof, and shall ensure that 
the Republic of Serbia does not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Part A 
Implementation Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 (a), 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, in order to ensure the implementation of Part B of the Project, shall 
ensure that the BRA maintains, during the term of the Project, the BRA PMU, 
with staff and resources necessary and appropriate for Part B of the Project. 
 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the BRA, the Republic of Serbia 
and PA:  
 
(a)  
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable them to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Borrower 
and Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by March 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  8
-
6
-
3.04, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 3.04, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) With respect to Part B of the Project, the Borrower, through the 
BRA, shall maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the  Association, adequate to reflect 
its operations and financial condition, and to register separately the operations, resources 
and expenditures related to Part B of the Project.   
 
(b)  
With respect to Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure 
that the Republic of Serbia shall ensure that the PA maintains a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepares financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the PA 
operations and financial condition, and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part A of the Project.   
Page  9
-
7
-
(c) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the BRA and PA: 
 
(i) 
have their records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of expenses and related 
statements) and the records and accounts for the Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year:   (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) and sub-paragraph (c) 
(i) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(d) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall ensure that the BRA and PA: 
 
(i) 
maintain records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of 
this Section; 
 
(ii) 
retain until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  11
-
9
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set 
forth in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that the BRA 
and PA prepare and furnish to the Association consolidated Financial Monitoring 
Reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explaining variances between the actual and planned uses 
of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explain variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of 
the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar 
quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of 
the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association
 
Page  12
-
10
-
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Republic of Serbia shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Part A Sub-credit Agreement; 
 
(b)  
The Republic of Serbia shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Part A Implementation Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the PA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Part 
A
Implementation Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of External Economic Relations is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of External Economic 
 
Relations 
Bul. Mihajila Pupina 2 
11070 Belgrade 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Facsimile: 
Page  13
-
11
-
381 11 311-2979 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI)  
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the city of Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
By /s/ Branko Lukovac 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Rory O’ Sullivan 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Credit Allocated  
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods under Part A 
40,000 
100% of local 
 
of the Project  
 
expenditures and 
 
95%
of
foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services, 
 
80% for services 
 
including auditing services 
 
by firms, 70 % for  
 
services by  
 
(a) 
under Part A of 
4,070,000 
individuals 
 
of the Project 
 
 
 
 
  
 
(b)   under Part B of 
2,180,000 
 
 
the Project 
 
(3) Incremental operating 
 
87% until 
 costs 
 
  January 
1, 
2004; 
 
70%
thereafter 
 
(a) 
under Part A of 
430,000 
 
 
 
 
the Project 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)  under Part B of 
90,000 
 
the Project 
 
(4)  Refunding of Project  
1,590,000
Amount due 
 
Preparation Advance 
 
pursuant to 
 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of
this Agreement 
 
TOTAL  
8,400,000
Page  16
-
14
-
Page  17
-
15
-
2. 
For the purposes paragraph 1 of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable and 
necessary incremental expenditures, as approved by the Association on the basis 
of budgets acceptable to the Association, incurred by the BRA and PA with 
respect to Project implementation, management and monitoring, including PA 
staff salaries, office space, office supplies, utilities, publication of procurement 
notices, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of 
officials and employees of the Borrower and the Republic of Serbia; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; the term “foreign 
expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the 
Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
Categories (1), (2) (a) and (3) (a), unless the Part A Sub-credit 
Agreement and Part A Implementation Agreement have been executed, and all conditions 
to the effectiveness of such agreements have been fulfilled. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) except for the first three 
(3) contracts, goods under contracts costing less than $10,000 equivalent each; (b) 
services for individuals costing less than $25,000 equivalent each, and firms costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and (c) all incremental operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to provide assistance to the Borrower and the 
Republic of Serbia to facilitate private sector-led economic growth by: (i) launching the 
restructuring and privatization process, and, when appropriate, bankruptcy proceedings 
with respect to some of the most problematic large socially owned enterprises (SOEs) in 
the Republic of Serbia; and (ii) supporting the implementation of a comprehensive 
banking sector restructuring strategy aimed at the creation of a more viable financial 
sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Privatization through Restructuring of SOEs
1.  
Technical assistance to the Republic of Serbia, operating through the PA or other 
relevant agencies, to support privatization and restructuring, and, when appropriate, 
bankruptcy, within the Enterprise Privatization Framework, of a number of large SOEs, 
using case-by-case and pool privatization techniques, on the basis of transparent and 
competitive procedures and assistance of restructuring agents, described in the Annex to 
this Schedule 2, through the provision of services. 
 
2. 
Technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity of the restructuring 
unit within the PA, through the provision of services and goods.   
 
3. 
Provision of support to the PA PMU in the management, implementation and 
monitoring of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, through the provision of services, 
including the audit of records, accounts and financial statements referred to in Section 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement, goods, and financing of incremental operating costs. 
 
Part B:
Bank Restructuring Program
1. 
Technical assistance to the BRA with respect to bank liquidation, 
rehabilitation and privatization, within the Bank Resolution Framework, through 
the provision of services. 
 
2. 
Provision of support to the BRA PMU in the management, implementation and 
monitoring of Part B.1 of the Project, through the provision of services, including the       
 
Page  19
-
17
-
audit of records, accounts and financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, and financing of incremental operating costs. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2005.
 
Page  20
-
18
-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2 
1. Implementation 
Responsibility
.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Republic of 
Serbia ensures that: (a) the MOEP shall be responsible for the policy aspects of Part A of 
the Project; (b) the PA shall be responsible for day-to-day, operational and technical 
aspects of Part A of the Project; and (c) all governmental agencies and ministries of the 
Republic of Serbia shall assist, as necessary, in the implementation of Part A of the 
Project, all in accordance with the Enterprise Privatization Framework.  
2. 
Enterprises to be Restructured and Privatized
.
The SOEs to be restructured and 
privatized or, if necessary, put into bankruptcy, under Part A.1 of the Project shall be 
mutually agreed upon by the Association and the Republic of Serbia (MOEP and PA), 
and shall be described in a list (the List), which may be modified from time to time, but 
only upon the explicit agreement of the Association.
 
3. Restructuring 
Agents
.
The PA shall engage consultants, such as financial 
advisers, restructuring and workout firms and investment banks, or other qualified agents 
(the restructuring agents) to assist the PA to prepare the SOEs on the List for 
restructuring and privatization, and to restructure and privatize, or, if necessary, initiate 
bankruptcy proceedings with respect to such SOEs, which shall include conducting the 
tenders, auctions, and asset sales for such SOEs, or parts thereof, on behalf of the PA.  
The restructuring agents shall be selected in accordance with the procurement rules set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and shall have appropriate international 
restructuring and privatization experience and qualifications, as well as knowledge of 
local conditions. The restructuring agents’ retainer and professional fees may be financed 
under the Credit.  The restructuring agents’ success fees, if any, shall be paid out of sales 
proceed and shall not be financed under the Credit. 
4. 
Restructuring and Privatization Procedures
.
The SOEs on the List shall be 
prepared for restructuring and privatization, and restructured and privatized, in 
accordance with the following procedures: 
 
(a) 
When the PA receives a proposed Restructuring Program for each SOE, 
it shall make a decision with respect to such a Program within a timeframe provided 
under the Enterprise Privatization Framework, and shall inform the Association of its 
decision and reasons therefor. 
(b) 
For each SOE to be restructured and privatized, the PA shall submit to 
the Association for review and approval the following documents, which shall be 
prepared with the assistance of the restructuring agents: (i) the Restructuring Program; 
(ii) a list of potential/proposed bidders who have expressed interest in bidding on all or 
parts of the SOE being restructured; (iii) the draft information memoranda, which shall 
Page  21
-
19
-
include proposed criteria for pre-selection of bidders, and proposed criteria for bid 
evaluation; (iv) a report prepared by the restructuring agent on the tender; and (v) auction 
privatization program for the SOEs, or parts thereof, that would be sold through the 
auction procedure.  
 
(c) 
The PA shall compare and evaluate all bids, and select the winner based 
exclusively on established evaluation criteria, and price quotations with respect to 
auctions.  Direct negotiations with respect to prices or other price related variables shall 
not be undertaken, except in cases where a properly conducted international tender results 
in only one qualified bid. 
 
(d) 
In cases of direct negotiations described in paragraph 4 (b) of this Annex, 
a
committee for direct negotiations, to be appointed by the MOEP, shall prepare a 
detailed protocol (minutes) of the negotiations with the winning bidder, which shall be 
signed by the head of the committee and the official representative of the winning bidder, 
and shall submit such a protocol to the MOEP, PA and Association, together with a 
proposed privatization contract, to be prepared by the PA, and any other documents 
requested by the MOEP and/or the Association, for review. Such a review shall be 
undertaken and comments, if any, provided by the MOEP and Association, within thirty 
(30) days. 
5.  
Terms and Conditions of Restructuring and Privatization
.
The SOEs on the List 
shall be restructured and privatized in accordance with the following terms and  
conditions: 
 
(a) 
at least seventy percent (70%) of the total capital of each SOE, or parts 
of the SOE, on the List shall be offered for sale to a strategic investor; for the purposes of 
this paragraph 5, the term “strategic investor” shall mean a legal entity that: (i) is not, 
directly or indirectly, owned or controlled by the managers or employees of the 
enterprise; and (ii) has the required experience, resources and reputation, as determined 
by the restructuring agent, and agreed upon by the MOEP and Association; 
 
(b)     the capital of the SOE to be transferred or made available, directly or 
indirectly, to the employees or managers of the enterprise shall not exceed fifteen percent 
(15%) of the total capital of the SOE, and shall not be so transferred until at least fifty 
percent (50%) of the total capital of the SOE has been sold to the strategic investor. 
(c) 
The Republic of Serbia funds for payments to be made to redundant 
employees of the SOEs on the List, to be made under applicable laws of the Republic of 
Serbia, shall be transferred to an appropriate account in the Republic of Serbia’s Ministry 
of Labor and Economy, in a timely manner, and in accordance with the requirements of 
the relevant restructuring program.    
Page  22
-
20
-
6. Timetable
.
By March 31, 2003, the PA shall execute consultants’ 
contracts with the restructuring agents with respect to three SOEs on the List.  By 
August 31, 2003, the PA shall execute additional consultants’ contracts with the 
restructuring agents with respect to three additional SOEs of the List.  By January 
31, 2004, the PA shall execute additional consultants’ contracts with the 
restructuring agents with respect to four additional SOEs on the List.  The 
restructuring agents shall be required to submit restructuring programs with 
respect to the first three SOEs on the List by September 30, 2003, with respect to 
three more SOEs on the List by February 28, 2004; and with respect of four 
additional SOEs on the List by August 31, 2004.  The PA shall initiate bankruptcy 
proceedings with respect to those SOEs on the List, or parts thereof, which the 
restructuring agents advise cannot or should not be restructured and privatized, 
subject to the applicable legal and regulatory requirements.  
 
Page  23
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
2. National 
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  24
-
22
-
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
 
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with the 
international competitive bidding procedure referred to under Section I, Part B above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts and, thereafter, each contract to 
be procured in accordance with the shopping procedures referred to under Section I, Part 
C
above, and estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under national shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received 
and a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(ii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction, Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the 
Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services for 
the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality-and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Page  25
-
23
-
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services under Parts A.3 and B.2 of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures,  shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time), as 
shall have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
Page  26
-
24
-
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval 
shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  27
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) (a) and (3) 
(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect 
of Part A of the Project, and means Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Part B of the 
Project; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services and incremental operating costs required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to Euro 
300,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, and an amount 
equivalent to Euro 100,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
Euro 150,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, and an amount 
equivalent to Euro 50,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project, 
until: (i) in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project, the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to Categories (1), (2) (a) 
and (3) (a), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 340,000; and (ii) in respect of 
the Special Account for Part B of the Project, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account of amounts allocated to Categories (2) (b) and (3) (b), plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 110,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
Page  28
-
26
-
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special 
Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the respective Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  29
-
27
-
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
Page  30
-
28
-
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
