Report No. PID8307
Project Name                     Armenia-Transport Project(@)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       AMPE44829
Borrower(s)                      Ministry of Finance and Economy,
Government of Armenia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Transport and
Communications
Zajian 10
375015 Yerevan, Armenia
Tel:    3742-56-33-91
Fax:    3742-56-05-28
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Updated            March 31,2000
Appraisal Date                   October 10, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 8, 2000
Country and Sector Background
1.      The Armenia Highway Project, approved on September 14, 1995,
was undertaken to assist the Government to preserve the Armenia
road network, thereby avoiding costly rehabilitation and
reconstruction, and to improve the operations of the Armenia Road
Directorate (now called Armenia Roads SS CC). It is expected
that the Credit will be fully disbursed by the end of the year
2000 construction season. Much of the most heavily traveled
parts of the road network has been improved, Armenia Roads
personnel have been trained in the use of economic analysis,
competitive bidding has been introduced, the overall quality of
the periodic maintenance has been greatly improved, background
work has been carried out by consultants to prepare for routine
maintenance by contract, and a road safety plan and program have
been designed and are ready for implementation. Budget support
for the road maintenance operations is still at an inadequate
level due to the continuing economic constraints that affect all
aspects of the Armenian economy, routine maintenance by contract
has not yet been made operational, and there remains a large
backlog of deferred road maintenance. Also, Armenia now needs to
give attention to other aspects of its transport network in order
to provide the support necessary for private sector investment
and growth. The Armenia Railways Department (ARD) is in serious
financial and operational decline, with only limited service to
and from Georgia; a breakdown of this line would seriously hinder
the shipment of bulk foodstuffs and other critical goods from
Europe, since Armenia's borders to Turkey and Azerbaijan are
still closed.



Objectives
2.      The overall objective of the project is to improve the
reliability and reduce the cost of Armenia's transport system in
support of expanding the country's growth and development.
Specifically, it will include:
(i) improvement of the main road network, with commensurate
reductions in total transport costs, improved road safety, and in
the operational efficiency of Armenia Roads SS CC (AR);
(ii) improvement of the rail service between Armenia and Georgia,
and in the financial performance of ARD; and
(iii) strengthening the Ministry of Transport's capacity for
planning and economic analysis as a basis for making investment
decisions in the transport sector.
Description
3.      The proposed Highway Project would have three components,
described below:
(a) Road Rehabilitation of the most important parts of the main
road network, with special reference to routes important for
interstate trade. This component will include surface dressings,
overlays, and reconstruction of the road network, improvement of
bridges, implementation of the road safety plan including
elimination of traffic bottlenecks and accident black spots, and
a continuation of the institutional strengthening of Armenia
Roads started under the IDA-financed Highway Project.
(b) Support for the Armenia Railways Department (ARD) through the
provision of rails and sleepers, spare parts needed to improve
the energy supply and telecommunications systems and to overhaul
locomotives and railway cars, and the institutional strengthening
of ARC.
(d) Strengthening the Ministry of Transport through technical
support and training in planning and economic analysis relating
to transport investment projects.
Project Costs and Financing
4.      The total project is estimated to cost US$47.0 million.    The
proposed IDA Credit would provide 29.9 million SDRs (equivalent
to US$40.0 million), or 85 percent of the total project cost.
The Government would finance US$6.4 million, or 13.6 percent of
total project costs. Grant co-financing is expected of US$0.6
million.
Implementation
5.      The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) will have
overall responsibility for project execution. MTC will
-2 -



establish, under the direction of the Under-Secretary of
Transport, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) capable of
controlling and coordinating the various project components. AR,
which is thoroughly familiar with World Bank procurement
procedures because of its experience with administering the
Highway Project, will administer the Road Component. AR and ARD
will establish small coordinating offices under the direction of
Coordinators, who will provide liaison with the MTC's PIU and the
other agencies involved in the project. The project
implementation period is expected to be four years.
Project Coordination
6.      MTC's PIU will be responsible for overall project
coordination, including the submission of work programs,
quarterly progress reports, and audits. It will also handle the
coordination with the financing institutions involved in the
project, including the preparation and submission of withdrawal
requests. AR and ARD will, however, maintain direct links to the
financing institutions for day-to-day operational matters such as
the submission of procurement documents for review.
Sustainability
7.      Sustainability in the road sector is contingent on the
establishment of an adequate level of road user charges. It is
also dependent on Government leadership that recognizes that
investments should be made on the basis of economic analysis.
Sustainability of railway improvements depends on the
establishment of an effective railway organization and freight
and passenger charges that cover operational costs.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.      The Bank has had considerable experience in the transport
sector in other parts of the world, including Eastern Europe.
The lessons learned from this related experience include the need
to ensure an adequate level of maintenance expenditures, with
priority given to maintenance over new construction since it
frequently produces a higher return on investment up to the
optimum level of maintenance expenditures; the need for strong
and effective maintenance organizations; the frequent need for
improved technologies and methods; and the importance of a
sustainable, non-subsidized set of road user charges and rail
tariffs. These lessons have been incorporated into the design of
this project.
9.      The Bank's experience with the Highway Project, which is the
only transport project previously undertaken in Armenia, has been
extremely favorable. The Armenian counterparts have been
conscientious and serious in finding improved methods of
operation, have accepted the need for change, and have eagerly
adopted the new technologies made available to them. Also, there
is a very constructive attitude on the part of the new leadership
of the ARD, and the generally favorable policy framework of the
Government remains in effect.
-3-



Poverty
10.     The project will have a favorable but indirect impact on the
rural poor, who will have improved access to markets and urban
centers. It will also assist in job creation, both directly
through the project activities and through the increased
investment that may result from improved transport in Armenia.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The project will have only a limited environmental impact
since the road and rail rehabilitation will take place on sites
already in use for these purposes. An Environmental Assessment
has been carried out, and the Government has committed itself to
carry out the Environmental Management Plan recommended in the
Assessment.
Program Objective Categories
12.     The project supports private sector development by improving
transport services at reduced cost, both within the country and
abroad. It also relieves the Government's financial management
burdens to the extent that an adequate level of road user charges
and rail tariffs result in income streams that do not have to
come from central Government general revenues.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Anders Bonde
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-9272
Fax:        (202) 614-0900
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 7, 2000.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.



