Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20406
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.9 MILLION
US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR A
TRANSPORT PROJECT
May 15, 2000
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Dram
1.0 = US$ 0.001818
US$ 1.0 = 550 Drams
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARD-          Armenia Railway Department
AR-           Armenia Roads SS CC (formerly
Armenia Road Directorate)
CAS   -       Country Assistance Strategy
ERR   -       Economic Rate of Retum
EU    -       European Union
ICR    -      Implementation Completion Report
MOF  -        Ministry of Finance and Economy
MOTC -        Ministry of Transport and Communications
NPV   -       Net Present Value
PIU    -      Project Implementation Unit
PMR   -       Project Management Reports
SOE   -       Statement of Expenditures
TA    -       Technical Assistance
VOC   -       Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Judy M. O'Connor, ECCO3
Sector Director:    Ricardo A. Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Manager:     Eva Molnar, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Anders Bonde, ECSIN



ARMENIA
TRANSPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
-3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                     10
3. Benefits and target population                                                    11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          17
2. Financial                                                                         18
3. Technical                                                                         21
4. Institutional                                                                     22
5. Environment                                                                       23
6. Social                                                                            23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    25
2. Critical risks                                                                    25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    26



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             26
2. Other                                                                               26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           29
Annex 2: Project Description                                                              32
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          35
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            36
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     40
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        46
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             71
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 30837



ARMENIA
Transport Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: May 10, 2000                                Team Leader: Anders H. G. Bonde
Country Manager/Director: Judy M. O'Connor        Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P044829                               Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
OI Loan          3 Credit      El Grant        Oi Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 40.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
a        Pln       Soure                                    Loca          F       
GOVERNMENT                                                     6.40           0.00          6.40
IDA                                                            5.30          34.70         40.00
GRANT                                                          0.10           0.50          0.60
Total:                                                        11.80          35.20         47.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS
Address: Zajian 10, 375015 Yerevan, Armenia
Contact Person: Mr. Eduard Karapetyan, Head of the Department of Investment and Construction
Tel: 3742-56-33-91                Fax: 3742-56-05-28               Email: None
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
- FY        2Q01        202          2003        2004        2005
Annual     7.0           8.0        10.0        10.0         5.0
Cumulative     7.0         15.0         25.0       35.0        40.0
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
UCS PAC -5,5 RW-  Wd, 2500



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project has three objectives:
(i) to improve the main road network, with commensurate reductions in total transport costs, to
improve road safety, and to increase the operational efficiency of Armenia Roads SSCC (AR);
(ii) to improve the rail service between Yerevan and the Georgian border, and the financial and
managerial performance of the Armenia Railways Department (ARD);
(iii) to strengthen the planning capability of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, particularly in
the use of economic analysis as a basis for setting priorities and making investment decisions in the
transport sector, and in establishing a basis for improvement of urban transport services in Yerevan.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Achievements will be measured by (i) a reduction in vehicle operating costs (VOC), the overall roughness
of the main 800 km of the road network improved from an IRR of 4.67 to 4.00 by project completion, a
reduction in road fatalities per 10,000 vehicles, and an economic rate of return of 20 percent or higher for
the road and bridge rehabilitation work; (ii) reduced rail transit time between Yerevan and the Georgian
border from 10 to 5 hours, and a reduction of ARD's working ratio (ratio of operating expenses excluding
depreciation to operating revenues); and (iii) planned investments for transport infrastructure are decided
on the basis of sound economic evaluation methods.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16988-AM                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/20/97
The main objectives of the Bank's country strategy for Armenia are to foster the rapid development of the
private sector and to support social sustainability and the alleviation of poverty. The CAS identified
unreliable and low-quality infrastructure, especially in energy and transport, as a major barrier to the
development of the private sector, exports and growth. Consequently, the Bank's strategy will be to
support the private sector through: (i) improving the environment for the private sector by consolidating
macro-economic stability, and strengthening the financial system and the legal and regulatory framework,
and (ii) alleviating key infrastructure bottlenecks, particularly in transport and energy.
The proposed project is fully consistent with the CAS as described above. It will assist in alleviating the
key transport bottlenecks that restrain trade and reduce investment prospects for the private sector. A more
detailed analysis of the infrastructure and institutional constraints is described below.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The core of the Government's reform program since 1991 has been the stimulation of the private
sector. Almost all agricultural land was privatized in 1991, making Armenia the first country to do so
among the former Soviet Republics. Privatization has proceeded quickly, with 80 percent of small
enterprises and about 65 percent of medium and large enterprises privatized to date. Most restrictions
on the emerging private sector have been dismantled, as have barriers to foreign investment. Prices
have been liberalized, and most consumer subsidies have been removed. State trading arrangements
have been eliminated, and the foreign exchange and trade regime liberalized. As evidenced by these
developments, Armenia has built an exceptional record on reform and demonstrated its commitment by
moving forward despite very difficult external circumstances.
The Government's record in the transport sector is not as impressive as in the macro-economic area,
however. While good progress has been made in the reform of road maintenance operations with the
assistance of the IDA-financed Highway Project, change has been slower for inter-urban and urban
transport operations, and the restructuring of the Armenia Railways Department started just last year.
However, the Government's reform agenda for the next three years seeks to build on the advances of the
first phase of reforms- macro-economic stability, open and competitive markets, improved financial
discipline and an emerging private sector- while moving ahead on the difficult task of completing the
transition and building the supporting institutions needed for a vibrant market economy. Specifically, it has
begun to liberalize entry into the market for inter-urban and urban transport, and to privatize the
inter-urban transport companies.
World Bank Support for the Transport Sector
The Armenia national road system consists of 7,788 km of roads, including 1,440 km of main roads, 2,621
km of secondary roads, and 3,727 km of rural roads. The Armenia Highway Project, approved on
September 14, 1995, was undertaken to assist the Government to preserve the main road network, thereby
avoiding costly rehabilitation and reconstruction, and to improve the operations of Armenia Roads SSCC
(AR). It is expected that the Credit will be fully disbursed by the end of the year 2000 construction season.
Critical portions of the most heavily traveled part of the road network have been improved, but
interventions have mainly consisted of low cost preventative maintenance and only short sections have been
strengthened due to limited financing. AR personnel have been trained in road management through the use
of economic analysis; competitive bidding, new standards and new technologies have been introduced; the
overall quality of maintenance works has been greatly improved; background work has been carried out by
consultants to prepare for routine maintenance by contract; and a road safety plan and program have been
designed and are ready for implementation. Budget support for the road maintenance operations is still at
an inadequate level due to the Government's poor fiscal situation, routine maintenance by contract has not
yet been made operational as reliable financing is not available for multi-year contracts, and there remains
a large backlog of deferred road maintenance.
-3 -



Transport Sector Review
IDA carried out a Transport Sector Review in 1997 in order to gain a more detailed view of the
strengths and weaknesses of the transport sector. The Transport Sector Review identified the major
transport issues to be:
(a) The pace of reform in the sector needs to match the evolution of macro-economic policies to take
full advantage of the opportunities offered;
(b) The asset base of the transport sector is eroding, and rehabilitation, maintenance and renewal
backlogs are mounting;
(c) Traffic, which has contracted sharply, is likely to show a modal split different from the traditional
one, with greater reliance on road transport in international trade to the West with Turkey when
sustained economic recovery is achieved;
(d) Technical innovation and technological upgrading needs are not being sufficiently addressed; and
(e) There is a need for continued institutional and pricing reforms across sector institutions.
The Transport Sector Review recommended that the basic approach to an improved and more efficient
transport sector should rest on the privatization of almost all transport services, full cost recovery for
any remaining public sector transport infrastructure, and removal of regulatory and physical
bottlenecks.
The Transport Sector Review identified priority areas and made recommendations for each of the
sub-sectors as follows:
Road Infrastructure:
Cost Recovery Measures: The resources available for the upkeep of the road network need to be
brought more in line with current needs by means of a combination of cost recovery measures that
generate resources from road users. While the Government is now aware of the need to address this
issue, it has not yet put into effect the level of road user charges necessary for the adequate
maintenance of the road network, and available resources remain woefully inadequate.
Proiect Selection: Measures should be further developed to reduce the cost of maintaining the road
network by the systematic use of economic analysis as the basis for selecting the most appropriate time
and kind of road maintenance, the use of improved road maintenance technology, and timely
maintenance interventions corresponding to the level of resources available. The Government has made
considerable progress in these areas already with the assistance of the technical services provided under
the Highway Project, but needs to continue and deepen its efforts over the next several years.
Cost Reduction Measures: The upkeep costs of the road network should be reduced by competitive
bidding procedures for periodic maintenance, the use of routine maintenance by contract combined with
further privatization of the road construction and maintenance industry, and the possible use of private
road associations for low traffic roads. The use of competitive bidding for periodic maintenance is now
fully adopted by AR, and the use of routine maintenance by contract is under study with the assistance
of a foreign consultant.
Monitoring Functions: In addition to the control of civil works, specific monitoring functions
concerning traffic counts and periodic road condition surveys of the network, and safety measures to
minimize accidents, is necessary. Road surveys have begun to be taken each year for the most used
-4 -



800 km of the road network, but a more sustained and systematic effort is required. An accident
reporting system has been designed and is being put into operation, which will form the basis for
accident black spot analysis.
Inter-Urban and International Road Freight and Passenger Transport:
Inter-urban road freight and passenger transport organizations were still operated as public companies
at the time of the Transport Sector Review. Privatization, de-monopolization, and freeing entry to the
market by both inter-urban and international transport companies were recommended, as privatization
would activate the existing vehicle fleet and support the emerging private economy.
Urban Transport:
Public transport services in Yerevan reflect the Government's hesitation between the past arrangements
(public provision of low-priced services) and the emerging private-sector operations, unfettered by any
concem  for service standards and coordination.  The tramways and buses, operated by the
Municipality of Yerevan, and the Yerevan Metro, operated by the Ministry of Transport and
Communications, run at low capacity utilization and at relatively low cost recovery from fare revenue.
The Metro, for example, carries only 20 million passengers per annum and recovers about 50 percent
of total costs from fare revenues. Concurrently, the Municipality issues permits for private minibuses
to operate on the same routes, with guaranteed seats and greater freedom of picking/dropping
passengers, but at somewhat higher fares. Passengers consequently enjoy more choice of services, but
the losses of public sector operators are large and press on an already strained public budget. Various
levels of the Government are conscious of the redundancy in services and the contradiction in policy,
and wish to produce a coherent public transport strategy. Attempts to do this have failed due to
absence of data and in-house capacity for policy and regulatory work. A multi-modal transport study
and a development plan, done by specialized consultants, are needed to collect and analyze transport
demand and supply data, develop policy and investment guidelines, and integrate planning and
regulation of transport services with those for road infrastructure.
Railways:
The Armenia Railways Department (formerly Arnenia Railways Corporation) is important to potential
foreign trade, but presently represents a high cost Govemment monopoly. The Transport Sector
Review recommended that it should be reorganized into an independent corporation, commercially
operated and with ownership vested in the State, with optional privatization at a later stage. Specific
railway non-core services or functions would be candidates for privatization, and the railways allowed
to compete with other modes. Restructuring is now under way, as will be discussed later (see Para.3,
Sector Issues to be addressed).
Air Transport:
Airline, airport, and traffic control operations should be under independent management and operate on
the basis of commercial principles. The policy of gradually opening of Armenian skies to foreign
airlines needs to be started. Also, given current excess capacity of Armenia's airport network, an
Airport National Masterplan is needed to define priorities and ensure consistency in terms of airport
investments.
-5 -



Transport and Trade Facilitation:
For economic revival to be sustained and accompanied by growth in new sectors, measures to expand
and facilitate trade are necessary. Main transport and trade facilitation recommendations are as
follows:
Participation in Trade and Transport Related Intemational Conventions: An independent study of a
number of Conventions of potential interest to Armenia is needed to determine the relative usefulness,
urgency and viability of each, rank their priorities, and establish realistic time-tables for their
acceptance.
Customs Procedures: Armenia has made considerable progress in its customs procedures by adoption
and operation of the ASYCUDA computerized customs data system. However, it is falling behind in
terms of building construction and site layouts for its numerous customs points and regional customs
houses. Customs procedures and facilities are in need of improvement.
Intemational Insurance: The lack of international insurance is a bottleneck to trade and transport in
Armenia, as there is no credible insurance system that can be used for cars, trucks or cargo. Basic
insurance legislation is lacking, and contractual legal obligations are commonly breached. Appropriate
legislation for the insurance sector would need to be enacted that would enable a free, non-monopolistic
insurance market to develop.
Frei2ht Forwarding: Freight forwarding does not exist in Armenia as a profession for shipments bound
beyond its borders. There is an urgent need to promote the development and growth of a freight
forwarding profession by setting up an independent professional association, which could apply
intemational practices aimed at protecting the owner of the merchandise shipped under the operator's
complete responsibility.
Generally, the issues identified and the recommendations included in the Transport Sector Review are
still applicable, and have been applied in the identification and preparation of the Transport Project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will help to alleviate the erosion of Armenia's road and railway asset base through the provision
of goods and civil works for physical improvements, through the institutional strengthening of the road and
railway management organizations, and through improvements in the recurrent financial resources
available to these organizations. It will also support regional development of the road and rail network by
improving the transport links to Georgia and to Iran, the only neighboring countries with open borders at
this time. Specifically in each sub-sector:
Road Infrastructure: Much progress has been made under the Highway Project to improve the
condition of the main road network, and to strengthen the road administration. Technical innovations
have been introduced, the field construction units have been largely privatized, all periodic maintenance
is now carried out on a contract basis, economic analysis is used as a basis for planning rehabilitation
activities, and supervision has been restructured and improved. Much remains to be done, however, to
improve the technology and design of bridge repairs and rehabilitation, to implement the road safety
program developed under the Highway Project, and to continue the rehabilitation of the main road
network, where the Govemment's limited funding capacity has restricted the ability of AR to reduce the
road maintenance backlog.
-6 -



The project will, in addition to providing financing for an expanded program of physical works, lead to
a review of Armenia's road user charges in order to make them more closely related to the damage they
cause to the roads (particularly heavy vehicles), and to make the level of cost recovery more nearly
meet the cost of road upkeep. The project will also provide technical services to help further develop
the planning of future investments in the road subsector, including bridge maintenance operations. It
will include continued support for introduction of competitive bidding practices for routine
maintenance, economic analysis for bridges and any proposed transport sector investments, upgrading
of the Pavement Management System, and improved road maintenance technology. It will also include
improvements in the monitoring mechanisms used for the road network, including annual surveys of the
pavements for the main roads, bridge surveys, and traffic counts.
Road Safety: As in most former Soviet Union countries, road safety conditions are deplorable, with
accident rates and fatalities at much higher relative levels than in Europe. In 1996, there were 12.1
fatalities per 10,000 vehicles compared to 3.8 fatalities per 10,000 vehicles for EU member states and
2.0 for the Nordic countries. An excellent Road Safety Program was prepared as part of the ongoing
Highway Project, but as no budget was available, implementation of the planned activities has been
limited to improvements undertaken on the sections of road being rehabilitated. The study that formed
the background for the Program estimated a need to invest US$56 million in road safety programs
during the next five years in order to meet Armenia's urgent road safety needs. While financing for this
level of activities is not feasible in the near term, the Transport Project will include US$5.0 million for
the highest priority road safety activities identified in the study. These include: support to the National
Road Safety Council, further development of the accident data system, safety engineering training,
support equipment and training for law enforcement, education and publicity, establishing the capacity
to make road signs, vehicle inspection, and improvements in accident black spots.
Railways: Prior to Independence, Armenia Railways functioned as a Government-owned company
under the Ministry of Transport. It operated a network of 796 km of main track, mainly electrified,
running from Yerevan to Turkey, to Iran and Azerbaijan through Nakhichevan, to Azerbaijan over a
line running north of Lake Sevan that also served a gold mining operation beyond Lake Sevan, and
from Yerevan to Tbilisi through Gyumri and Bagrateshen (see map attached). It also operated short
commuter rail lines from the outskirts of Yerevan into the city. As a result of the conflict over
Nagomo-Karabakh, the borders to Azerbaijan and Turkey are closed, and the line to the gold mining
operation stopped operating because of lack of payment from the gold mining company. Therefore,
only the line from Yerevan to Tbilisi totaling about 350 km and the short commuter lines outside of
Yerevan are operating at this time, and freight traffic is at about 5 percent of the level prior to
Independence. Nevertheless, the railway serves as a lifeline for the importation of bulk goods such as
petroleum products and wheat shipped through the Black Sea. Similarly, passenger traffic has
decreased sharply and is now at only 10 percent of the pre-1991 level.
With the sharp reduction in traffic, funds have not been available to conduct necessary levels of
maintenance of the tracks and rolling stock. The rail beds are deteriorating, giving rise to reduced train
speeds, increased operating costs, and an increased number of failures and damage to or deterioration
of the infrastructure. The condition of the ballast is poor, and has no intemal drainage capability. The
shoulder width of ballast is inadequate, contributing to accelerated wear and increased instability of the
track structure, thereby jeopardizing the safe passage of trains. The energy supply system is old and in
need of renewal. The quality of the communication system is poor and needs improvement. The
locomotives, wagons, and coaches had their last overhaul almost a decade ago, and are in urgent need
of repair. The combination of reduced traffic and poor infrastructure and equipment has led to a
decline in the financial situation of the railways, typified by operating losses and lack of funds for
- 7-



essential maintenance. The Railways staff has been reduced from 12,000 people in 1988 to 5035 now,
and most of the non-core operations such as housing, schools, hospitals and health facilities for
employees have been privatized or closed down. Two workshops for overhauling rolling stock have
been maintained, although are carrying out only limited maintenance activities because of a lack of
spare parts. The use of containers for shipment is in its infancy, made possible in a limited way by a
small container loading facility installed with assistance from TRACECA.
The railway is vital for Arnenia's economic security, especially for the transport of bulk goods, as the
road network would not be able to handle this heavy traffic without substantial and costly upgrading.
The Government has initiated a major restructuring of the railways, headed by a competent manager
with extensive experience in railway operations. The former Armenia Railway Corporation has
recently been separated into three operating companies (for infrastructure, rolling stock, and
operations), and a Department within the Ministry of Transport and Communications (now named the
Armenia Railways Department) has been created, which oversees the three operating companies.
Emphasis will be on measures to increase the efficiency of operations rather than through further staff
reductions, as the remaining staff of experienced railway personnel are considered essential to the
continued operation of the system. Also, while the present operation will concentrate on the
improvement of the line from Yerevan to the Georgian border through Gyumri, rail operations would
expand considerably if peace is achieved and the borders to Azerbaijan and Turkey are reopened, in
which event the experienced staff would be needed to operate the expanded system.  -
The Government has stated, in a letter from the Minister of Transport and Communications dated
March 23, 2000, that it intends to implement the restructuring of ARD as defined in the report entitled
"Project for Structural and Economic Reform to be Carried out at the Armenian Railways:
1998-2001". The objective of the restructuring is to put the railway on a commercially viable and
self-sustaining basis. As the first IDA intervention in the railway sector, it will support the
restructuring program of the Government through the physical improvement of the line between
Yerevan and the Georgian border, and the overhaul of essential rolling stock. It will also strengthen the
railway organization by supporting the organizational restructuring of ARD, by providing for improved
financial management, and through the introduction of modem management practices. As mentioned
above, the track infrastructure, the rolling stock and rail operations have been organized into separate
operating companies, and accounts for rail passenger operations will be separated from rail freight
operations. The project's support for the railway is expected to result in a gradual increase in revenues
as service is improved and train travel time is reduced, and in the reduction of operating costs.
A consultant report was prepared by Consultants that identified the optimal mix of maintenance
investments aimed at halting the decline in service and producing the highest economic rate of return.
Without these investments, the service will continue to decline and travel time increase, with reductions
in goods transported and declining financial results. With these investments, estimated savings would
result from reduced maintenance of tracks, bridges, and rolling stock, energy savings from increased
speeds and reduced line losses, reduction in "slow orders", and reduced derailments. Also, savings are
expected from rolling stock overhauls through fewer locomotive failures and reduced future
maintenance. Economic benefits were calculated on the basis of a 20 year projection of the future
operation of AR resulting from the project improvements for slow traffic growth (3 percent annually
starting in 2003), intermediate growth (6 percent starting in 2003), and a more rapid rate of growth
based on opening of the borders. The operating results and a financial projection based on the slow
growth scenario are shown in Annex 5.
The planned support from the project for ARD is the first phase in improving Armenia's railway
-8 -



system. If peace is restored and borders are reopened, much additional investment would be needed to
restore the lines to Azerbaijan and Turkey, where some of the track has been cannibalized for use in the
operating lines, and many of ARD's bridges are in need of rehabilitation or replacement. IDA is
financing a preliminary study of the post-conflict requirements for the transport sector in Armenia and
Azerbaijan, including the railway system, if peace is restored and the borders reopened, which should
be completed by July of this year. However, the restructuring and civil works that will be carried out
as part of this project is essential for maintaining the railway as an operating system under current
conditions, both because of its importance for the transport of existing traffic and for the future
expanded operations that would follow a peace agreement.
Ministry of Transport and Communications: The MOTC is a recent amalgam of the Ministry of
Transport and the Ministry of Communications. It operates with a small staff that has responsibility
for policy in the transport and communications fields. When functioning as part of the Soviet Union,
economic analysis was not used extensively, and the Ministry consequently lacks the skills necessary to
carry out informed planning for investments. Therefore, the project will assist the MOTC to improve
its transport planning capabilities, including the use of economic analysis, with the objective of
assuring the maximum use of scarce resources for future investments. An Urban Transport Study for
Yerevan, as recommended in the Transport Sector Review, will help produce a coherent public
transport strategy for Yerevan, with the objective of providing cost-effective and well functioning
urban transport for the capital.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
; ndicatie,            Bank-       % of
Component                    Sector         Costs      % of    finaning   SWBn-
.__._______i*::___         __     .JUSSM)                     Tot       NUS$M)      !an it
1. Rehabilitation of the most       Highways             30.90       65.7     26.50       66.2
important parts of the national road
network with special reference to
routes important for interstate trade.
This component will include surface
dressings, overlays, engineering design
and supervision, reconstruction and
elimination of traffic bottlenecks,
bridge rehabilitation and
reconstruction, a road safety program
that will include the elimination of
accident black spots, safety education,
improved traffic controls, and a
continuation of the institutional
strengthening of Armenia Roads
SSCC (AR) started under the
IDA-financed Highway Project.
-9-



2. Support for the Armenia Railways    Railways        15.20       32.3      12.60      31.5
Department through the financing of
the rehabilitation of tracks and bridges,
energy supply system,
telecommunications, overhaul of
locomotives and wagons, and the
upgrading of the workshop facilities
used for rolling stock repairs. It will
also include the institutional
strengthening of ARD and three
separate operating companies for the
management of the infrastructure, the
rolling stock, and the operations of the
freight and passenger services (with the
operating company divided into
independent profit centers for
passengers and freight), and technical
support, office supplies and training of
staff for these companies.
3. Strengthening of the Ministry of  Agency Reform      0.90         1.9      0.90       2.2
Transport and Communications
through technical support and training,
including carrying out an Urban
Transport Study to create a basis for
improvement of urban transport
services in Yerevan.
Total Project Costs                    47.00      100.0     40.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    47.00       100.0     40.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The proposed project will address the following issues:
(a) The project will increase the availability of local resources for road maintenance. Agreement has been
reached that the annual budget for Armenia Roads SS CC will be increased each year by not less than the
percentage increase in the Government's overall revenues compared to the previous year, with the budget
for the year 2000 as the base. In addition, further increases in this budget will be achieved through
additional revenues generated by adjustments in Armenia's road user charges, based on a study to be
carried out by the Government, with the objective of reaching a budget for AR of not less than US$16
million per year by the year 2004. This is less than the estimated optimal level of financing for minimizing
total transport costs, but it will be sufficient for maintaining the main roads and most of the secondary
roads to an adequate standard, and is a reasonable amount considering the Government's financial situation.
(b) The project will help to assure that investments in the transport sector are made on an economic basis.
Agreement has been reached that all investments in the transport sector will have a sound economic
- 10 -



justification. More precisely, the Government agrees that it will prioritize road segments to repair, as well
as all investments in the transport sector, on the basis of cost benefit analysis, and will only undertake
projects with a positive Net Present Value based on a cost of capital of 12 percent. Financing for road
maintenance investments will be reviewed within the context of the Government's overall multi-year
expenditure framework.
(c) The project will encourage the development of the domestic road construction industry. The
privatization of the Armenian road maintenance and construction companies is nearly completed, and
periodic maintenance works is expected to be contracted with private contractors based on competitive
contracting procedures. Procedures are also being introduced to put at least some routine maintenance on
competitively bid contract arrangements.
(d) The project will help to establish cost-effective, fully commercialized railway operations through
support for the restructuring of the railway sector that the Government has initiated. The steady decline in
rail services will be halted and railway operations and financial results will be improved, thus assuring an
economic mode for bulk shipments to and from the Black Sea and Tbilisi.
(e) The Government is in process of reviewing possible mechanisms for setting, monitoring and/or
reviewing rates and tariffs for utilities with monopoly status. The principles on which ARD's tariffs are to
be set will be reviewed and agreed with IDA prior to December 31, 2000. It is expected that these
principles will provide for setting rail tariffs on a more nearly commercial basis than has been the case in
the past.
(f) The MOTC will improve its planning capability, including its ability to carry out economic analysis as
a basis for making investment decisions, thus improving its ability to maximize the use of scarce resources.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The principal benefits would be in savings in transport costs and delivery times, thus reducing the
cost of living for consumers and facilitating both international and local trade. Cost-effective transport will
support the growth of domestic agriculture and industry, thereby enabling employment generation and a
related reduction in poverty. The project would preserve the countrys considerable investments in
transport infrastructure, improve traffic safety, enhance reliability of transport to and from Armenia, and
generate employment.
Target Population: The beneficiaries will include all users of the main road network and the rail link to
Georgia, including shippers, farmers and manufacturers, and in the longer term the users of urban transport
in Yerevan. Indirect beneficiaries will include a large number of people affected by the expected reduction
in transport costs and the increased reliability of deliveries of critical imports that are transported by rail,
such as wheat and fuel oil.
- 11 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The implementation period for the project is four years.
The Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC) will have the overall responsibility for project
execution. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established within the Ministry consisting of four
qualified staff to manage and coordinate all project components, including financial management and
accounting activities for the project. The PIU is responsible for the management and operation of the
Special Account. As of this date, the Director and the accountant for the PIU have been hired, and the
recruitment of the rest of the staff is under way.
Financial Management and Accounting:
Project financial management: A financial management system for the project will be maintained within
the PIU where project accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing arrangements will be centralized.
The accounts will be maintained in accordance with the borrower's regulations and with internationally
accepted accounting principles as well as the Bank's guidelines. The PIU will handle all coordination with
IDA, including the preparation and submission of withdrawal requests. Small PCUs within Armenia
Roads (AR) and Armenia Railways Department (ARD) will, however, maintain direct links to IDA for
day-to-day operational matters such as the submission of procurement documents for review when
required. The PIU in turn will consolidate these reports and be responsible to submit them to IDA
periodically and when requested. An international finance and accounting specialist has been recruited to
assist the PIU to design and install an appropriate financial management system acceptable to IDA.
Audits: The annual audits will be carried out in accordance with relevant intemational standards and Bank
guidelines as outlined in The World Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and
Project Financial Management Manual (exposure draft). A short list of auditors has been provided to
IDA, and procurement is in progress. Auditors acceptable to IDA will be appointed by November 30,
2000.
Financial Management Manual (FMM): The financial management system will be documented in a
FMM, an outline of which has been provided by IDA. This document will be prepared by the PIU
accountant with the help of a financial management consultant now on board. IDA will provide all
necessary support. The FMM would include: (i) the project's financial management system with special
emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (ii) role of the financial
management systems in Project management and implementation; (iii) accounting arrangements required
for Project management, the format for and content of Project financial reporting; and (iv) the auditing
arrangements that will be in place during Project implementation. It is expected that by the Board date, a
draft FMM, and within three months after Effectiveness, a final FMM satisfactory to IDA, will be
submitted.
Disbursements/Project Financial Reporting Requirements: During appraisal the format and frequency for
the submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs) could not be discussed as the accountant had not
been identified at that time. However, now that the accountant is identified, all necessary information and
support will be provided by IDA. During negotiations it was agreed that the first PMRs will be produced
and submitted to IDA by June 30, 2001. However, during the initial period in which the PIU may not be
ready to prepare quarterly PMRs, disbursements will start using traditional methods, i.e. Statements of
- 12 -



Expenditure (SOEs) reimbursements, direct payment, etc. Once the PIU has gained experience with the
financial management system (FMS) and reporting under project management reports, and provided that an
improved FMS is reviewed and found satisfactory by IDA, and with agreement of the Borrower, the Project
would move to PMR-based disbursements. Once converted, the PIU will be responsible for preparing
quarterly PMRs, each of which will include: (i) a fnancial report summarizing sources of project financing
and project expenditures, disbursement, and forecast project expenditures; (ii) reconciliation of the Special
Account; (iii) project progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project progress; and
(iv) procurement management report on status of procurement and contract management.
Flow of Funds/Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate a Special Account in a bank acceptable to IDA. In parallel, a Project
Account in local currency will be opened to facilitate payment for project expenditures financed from
counterpart funds. Where necessary, funds will be transferred from the Special Account to the Project
Account for eligible project activities. The administration of the Special Account and Project Account,
including preparation of withdrawal applications and replenishment of the accounts, will be the
responsibility of the PIU.
The Government will deposit sufficient funds in the Project Account to cover contractual obligations for the
first four months (estimated at US$600,000) as a condition of effectiveness, with replenishments made
periodically as this amount is drawn down.
The authorized allocation to be disbursed to the Special Account will be $4,000,000, but in no case will
exceed a maximum of 20 percent of the credit amount. Replenishment applications will be submitted at
least every three months, and will include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents. The minimum application size for payments directly from the Credit Account for
issuance of Special Commitments is 20 percent of the Special Account authorized allocation.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The Armenia Transport Sector Review, prepared in 1997, recommended key policy reforns, including
accelerating the privatization program in the sector, and formulated action plans for restructuring
railways, managing road infrastructure, reorganizing civil aviation and urban transport and improving
trade supporting infrastructure and services. The Transport Project emerged from this review, and its
final design is a result of further screening of priorities.
Improvement of trade supporting infrastructure and services is a high priority and a component was
identified and considered. However, the European Union has already begun to assist in this area, using
a regional approach. Building on what has already been achieved through an EU-TACIS financed
project, IDA is now considering engaging in a regional program supporting trade facilitation, and a
study managed by ECSIN under the Bank's Caucasus Post-Conflict initiative is presently in progress.
A Metro component, intended to improve the economics, reliability and safety of its operations, was
prepared as part of the project, but had to be abandoned when a planned co-financing arrangement did
not materialize. The Urban Transport Study that remains in the project will create a basis for a future
urban transport strategy, including the strategy for the continued operations and development of the
Metro.
- 13 -



Assistance to the interurban transport organizations was considered, but was not included in the project
because the principal need is for privatization and liberalization of entry. Once privatized, local and
foreign investment should become available to expand and modernize this subsector, as is already
happening for urban transport in Yerevan.
Assistance to the air transport subsector was considered, in particular the urgently needed upgrading of the
national airport runway and its landing light system, but the Government is seeking other financing for this
purpose. Sector restructuring, however, is urgently needed, including improvements in air safety and
strengthening the aeronautical authorities.
Other types of lending operations were considered, but were found to be less suitable than regular
development lending. Adaptable Program Lending (APL) is not suitable since it requires anticipating
longer term needs in the sector, which is not possible in Armenia given the uncertainties about when the
closed borders will be opened, which will have a major impact on the transport needs of the country.
Sector adjustment lending is not appropriate since there is still a need for close intervention in project
preparation, contracting and supervision of civil works activities included in the project, as well as the
introduction of new technologies and closely supervised institutional strengthening. Regular development
lending, with its mixture of institution building and financing for physical infrastructure over a four year
time frame, is well suited for these purposes.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
[  Sct  Issue                         Pro>:t                   (PSR: Ratags
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDA-financed                       Highway Project                    S             S
Preservation of road network
Other development agencies
Improve air freight service        EBRD-financed Air Terminal
Improve reliability and safety of air    Project planned to
traffic                            rehabilitate national airport
runway and landing light
system- donor to be determined
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
A small railway container terninal has been constructed with financial support from the EU, which will
assist the ARD in attracting goods traveling to and from the ports in Georgia.
Another possible source of financing for road maintenance in Armenia is the Lincy Foundation, a US-based
non-profit organization. Lincy has offered initial financing of up to US$35 million for the improvement of
Armenia's roads, subject to agreement on the road sections to be improved and approval by the US tax
authorities that the financing would have tax-deductible status. IDA has offered its assistance to coordinate
the use of these funds, and a compatible selection of roads for improvement has been agreed. The proposal
is now being reviewed by the US tax authorities. If these funds are made available, it will greatly assist
Armenia to reduce its backlog of deferred road maintenance.
- 15 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The World Bank Group has had considerable experience in the road subsector in other parts of the world,
including Eastern Europe, and in Armenia. The lessons learned from this related experience principally
show that weak institutions and policies, as well as lack of resources, are at the root of the sector problems.
Resolving the financial issues is critical to ensure (i) appropriate road infrastructure service levels as
required for cost-effective and safe road transport, (ii) a level of road maintenance necessary to preserve the
road infrastructure asset value, (iii) strengthening of road pavements as required by increased traffic loads,
and (iv) infrastructure improvements as required to meet traffic capacity needs cost effectively, or to solve
traffic safety problems. Maintenance in general produces a much higher economic return than new
construction. Under budgetary constraints, as in Armenia, maintenance should therefore be given priority.
In the former socialist economies, the development of an enabling environment to facilitate private
involvement in the sector, and strengthening the capacity of the state to appropriately plan and contract
with private contractors and operators, is particularly important. Other lessons include the need for strong
and effective management of maintenance organizations, the continual need for adopting improved
technologies and methods, and the importance of a sustainable, non-subsidized set of road user charges and
rail tariffs. These lessons have been incorporated into the design of this project.
IDA's experience with the Highway Project, which is the only World Bank/IDA-financed transport project
previously undertaken in Armenia, has been extremely favorable. The Armenian counterparts have been
conscientious and serious in introducing improved methods of operation, have accepted the need for
change, and have eagerly adopted the new technologies made available to them. Also, there is a very
constructive attitude on the part of the new leadership of the ARD, and a favorable overall Government
policy framework remains in effect.
Lessons learned about railway projects have been drawn from a limited amount of lending in this subsector
in Eastern Europe, as well as extensive experience in other parts of the world. Demand forecasting should
be conservative, since road transport now creates serious competition with rail transport compared to
pre-Independence conditions. Therefore, investments should concentrate on a realistic assessment of where
demand under the new conditions will develop rather than trying to restore the pre-Independence traffic
levels and patterns. Generally, the competence of the railway engineers and managers is high, and therefore
the risk of failure to complete the physical works is low. The most difficult area is the need to restructure
the rail organization so that it becomes a market-oriented operation sensitive to service requirements of its
customer base, with attention on good financial systems, cost analysis, and management. In most cases,
there is a need to reduce staff to bring costs in line with reduced freight and passenger demand. And there
is the need to develop the skills necessary to set tariffs at levels that are competitive with other transport
modes while adequate to finance the system's operations. These lessons have been incorporated into the
design of this project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The MOTC was fully engaged in the preparation of the Transport Sector Review, and carried out its part
of the project preparation in a timely manner. AR has provided logistical support during project
preparation, and has continually demonstrated its commitment to similar activities included in the ongoing
Highway Project. Even before project preparation, ARD began to make plans for the restructuring
program mentioned above and the separation of the railway into three operating units. ARD seems
determined to carry out the restructuring with or without extemal support to the extent that it is financially
able to do so. All of the participating agencies were fally involved during project preparation, and met their
commitments to provide information and carry out investigations as requested.
- 16-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA will: (i) provide guidance in designing a program of institutional strengthening and restructuring that
will seek to address the root causes of the problems facing the sector; (ii) provide resources needed to
expand the level of road and rail maintenance beyond that which the Government is able to provide, thus
helping to preserve the country's infrastructure; (iii) assist the Government to obtain grant financing for the
technical services from the Canadian, US and French Governments, as it did for securing trust funds for
project preparation; (iv) expose the rail institutions to the restructuring experience from other countries in
the world, and to modem technology, and connect them to sources that will permit them to link up to new
technological developments in their fields as they evolve; (v) expose the road institutions to continued and
more advanced technological development, and (vi) provide a stimulus for getting the Government to
commercialize transport operations and to undertake financing policies that result in non-subsidized
transport infrastructure and services.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$75 million; ERR = 45.5 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Road Component: For the US$20 million road investment component: NPV=US$62.6 million; ERR= 76
percent
The selection of roads for rehabilitation is based on benefits arising from savings in road user costs due to
improved pavement condition, and from savings in future rehabilitation or reconstruction costs arising from
timely rehabilitation. The economic analysis is based on the World Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance model (HDM 3.0), with the road sections selected on the basis of those having the highest
ration of NPV to investment cost. A traffic growth rate of 5 percent annually through the year 2005 and 2
percent thereafter was used, which is realistic based on the rapid rate of traffic increase that has taken place
in the last three years. Analysis was based on a survey of 1319 km of the main and secondary roads, to
which HDM analysis was applied. Those road sections with the highest ratio of Net Present Value to
investment cost were chosen for inclusion in the project. Net Present Values were calculated on the basis
of a 12 percent cost of capital.
The sensitivity analysis showed that the economic results would be good (49 percent return) even when a
20 percent increase in the cost of civil works and a 20 percent reduction in traffic volume are applied at the
same time.
Bridge Component: For the rehabilitation of bridges at a cost of US$3.7 million: NPV = US$4.5 million;
ERR=28%
The calculation of the work to be carried out on the first three bridges selected for rehabilitation or
reconstruction is based on benefits arising from savings in road user costs due to reduced delays, reduced
accidents, reduced cost of transport on detours, and from savings in future rehabilitation or reconstruction
costs arising from timely rehabilitation.  The economic model is based on the Bridge Economic
Methodology jointly developed by DORIS Consulting Engineers and World Bank specialists for use on the
Russian Bridge Rehabilitation Project, with bridges and rehabilitation strategies selected on the basis of
those having the highest ratio of NPV to investment cost. Net Present Values were calculated on the basis
of 12 percent cost of capital. It is expected that the NPVs and economic rates of return will be similar for
- 17 -



the remaining bridges selected for the program based on the almost complete lack of bridge maintenance
since well before Independence.
The sensitivity analysis showed that the investments would have a positive Net Present Value even with a
20 percent increase in the cost of civil works, a 20 percent decrease in traffic, a 20 percent decrease in
travel speed
and a 20 percent decrease in unit vehicle operating costs (each calculated separately).
Railway Component: For the US$15.2 million railway investment component: NPV=US$7.9 million;
ERR=22.2 percent based on a low traffic growth scenario.
Benefits were based on reduced derailments and closure of tracks for repairs, reduced maintenance costs
for tracks, sleepers and bridges, increased locomotive availability for service, reduced energy costs from
increased speeds and reduced line losses, reductions in slow orders, fewer locomotive failures, and reduced
future maintenance of rolling stock. Also, benefits include reversal of the decline in freight traffic due to
improved service, including more reliable and shorter delivery times. Net Present Values were calculated
on the basis of a 12 percent cost of capital. Benefits were calculated on the basis of three traffic levels-
Low (3 percent) Growth, Medium (6 percent) Growth, and High Growth based on the opening of the closed
borders. The results for all three scenarios are shown in Annex 4.
The sensitivity analysis is reflected in the different traffic growth scenarios. No additional reduction in
NPV or ERR was calculated by the consultant for a further reduction in traffic growth below the low
growth scenario, since this level was considered as a minimal rate of growth.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Road Component
Armnenia Roads (AR) obtains its funding from the Govenmment's general budget, and therefore a financial
projection is not relevant. IDA funds made available to AR from the Ministry of Finance and Economy are
not expected to be repaid since ART does not have an independent source of revenue. If a Road Fund is
established, then a financial analysis of the expected income and expenditures would be required to judge
the impact of the use of IDA resources and their repayment to the Ministry on AR's current and future
operations.
Railway Component
(i)    Railway Financial Performnance
Financial performance of the railway has been adversely affected by a combination of factors, intemal and
extemal to the railway (refer to Section B, Strategic Context). As a result of the disintegration of the
former Soviet Union, the conflict in Nagomo-Karabakh and the closing of the borders with Turkey and
Azerbaijan, freight traffic fell 93 percent in terms of tkm. Passenger traffic decreased almost as much as
freight (89 percent in terms of pkm), but is of minor importance because of its low contribution to
revenues.
- 18 -



1989           1994          1999
Freight
Net ton-kmn (millions)       5,120          378           323
Passenszer
Passenger-km (millions)      380            353            45
Traffic Units
(tkm + pkm) (millions)       5,500          731           368
Over the period 1994 to 1999, freight tariffs increased 44 percent in real terms. The average revenue is
US$0.02 per ton-km. The average revenue for passenger traffic is still low at US$0.005 per passenger-km,
despite regular tariff increases totaling 300 percent in real terms between 1994 and 1999.
Net income in recent years has been negative as a result of the dramatic reduction in traffic and constraints
in containing operating expenses. Revenues only partially cover cash expenses and the railway has no
longer been able to fulfill all its payment obligations. Accounts payable rose by 230 percent in real terms,
from Dram 465 million (US$1.6 million) to Dram 2,815 million (US$5.3 million) between 1994 and 1999.
ARD has also continued to accumulate arrears, mostly in terms of taxes and social charges to the State.
Maintenance of infrastructure and rolling stock was postponed and the quality of service deteriorated.
Despite deferred maintenance, the working ratio (ratio of operating expenses, excluding depreciation, to
operating revenues) deteriorated from 94 to 98 percent.
1994       1995        1996    1997   1998    1999
(Amounts in Dram Millions)
Net Income (losses)     69          (11)        (635)   (285)  (26)    (18)
Accounts Payable        465        394          1,035    2,576   2,988    2,815
Arrears to the State    9          41           806      150    175      290
Working Ratio           94%        95%          96%     98%    98%       98%
(ii)    Key Actions to Improve the Financial Position
The following actions are required to be taken by the railway authorities to improve the financial situation:
*   Preparation and implementation of an annual business plan, acceptable to IDA, in the context of the
annual work program due to IDA not later than August 31 of each prior year;
*   Establishment of a mechanism  for setting tariffs, acceptable to IDA, by December 31, 2000.
Maintenance of the tariffs in real terms thereafter by timely adjustments for inflation. The adequacy of
tariff levels will be reviewed with ARD annually in the context of the review of the draft business plan;
*   Timely implementation of the restructuring program as outlined in the report entitled "Project for
Structural and Economic Reform to be carried out at the Armenian Railways: 1998-2001 ";
*   Improvements in financial management systems, supported by technical assistance, to keep better track
of revenues and expenses in the railway, and provide timely and useful information for management
decision-making.
(iii)   Projected Future Financial Situation
ARD still uses the accounting system inherited from the planned economy and computerization is limited,
undermining timeliness and reliability of accounting data. Due to these weaknesses, data collection during
- 19-



project appraisal and preparation of reliable financial forecasts were quite limited. The project will provide
technical assistance of US$600,000, a portion of which will be used to set up an integrated MIS in ARD to
streamline and modernize the financial and accounting system and procedures in order to adapt them to the
needs of a commercially oriented and financially viable entity.
The financial situation of the railway is expected to improve gradually as summarized in the following
table. The financial forecasts are in constant mid-2000 prices and based on a conservative low case
scenario for traffic growth and tariff projections:
*   Freight and passenger traffic remain constant between 1999 and 2002, increasing 3 percent annually
(slow growth forecast) beginning in 2003 following project improvements. The gradual increase in
traffic is expected from improved service as well as reduction of train travel time. There are reasonable
prospects that the Turkish and Azerbaijan borders will reopen in the near future. If this happens, ARD
traffic could double or triple the slow growth forecast within the next 15 years;
*   Average revenues of freight and passenger services kept at their 1999 level in real terms. Average
revenues are US$0.02/tkrn for freight and US$0.005/pkm for passenger traffic;
*   Operating costs (except depreciation) remain constant between 2000 and 2002. Estimated reductions
in operating costs beginning in 2003 will result from reduced maintenance of tracks, sleepers and
bridges, energy savings from increased speeds and reduced rolling stock overhauls; and
*   Staff numbers kept at the 1999 level. The railways staff was reduced from 12,000 in 1988 to 5,035 in
1999.
Projected Operational and Financial Improvements
(1999 Current Price 2005-2010 Constant Mid-2000 Prices)
1999                  2005                   2010
Freight Traffic                 323                    353                   409
(million tkm)
Passenger Traffic               45                     50                     58
(million pkm)
Revenues                       4,991                  5,556                  6,216
(Dram million)
Operating Expenses             4,813                  4,609                  5,016
(Dram million)
Net Income                      (18)                   712                    942
(Dram million)
Average Unit Revenue           0.02                   0.02                   0.02
(US$) - Freight
Average Unit Revenue           0.005                  0.005                  0.005
(US$) - Passenger
Working Ratio (%)               98                     83                     78
Debt Service                    NA                     23                     30
Coverage Ratio
With these assumptions, the financial situation of ARD would be acceptable throughout the period
2000-2010, subject to the timely and committed undertaking of the actions indicated above. Details of
financial forecasts are shown in Annex 5.
- 20 -



D.    Project Financial Analysis
The IDA credit (US$12.6 million equivalent) will finance about 83 percent of the total required financing.
ARD would provide manpower for installation of tracks and spare parts, amounting to US$2.3 million
equivalent (15 percent of project costs), and the balance of US$0.3 million equivalent (2 percent) would be
provided by bilateral grants (Canada and the U.S.)
The NPV and the financial rate of return (FRR) for the railway component are estimated at US$3.5 million
and 16 percent respectively. The main benefits would come from the anticipated reduction of maintenance
and operating costs. In addition, benefits will be generated from increase in revenues with annual traffic
growth of 3 percent resulting from the project improvements
Fiscal Impact:
Road Component:
The overall fiscal impact will be favorable as the expected changes in road user charges and expanded
economic activity arising from the project should have a favorable impact on the budget. Funding needs for
the road component would be limited to the provision of counterpart financing for the civil works
component. The Government's share of financing for civil works has been retained at 15 percent, the same
as used in the ongoing Highway Project, in view of the Government's difficult financial situation.
The counterpart financing would be provided from the Government's regular annual budget, and no
repayment would be required. The total counterpart financing for the Road component would amount to
US$4.4 million, to be provided over four years, or about US$1.1 million per year. This is about 16 percent
of AR's present budget level of US$7 million per year.
Railway Component:
As ARD is a revenue-generating entity, the Credit proceeds will be made available to it through an
on-lending agreement between the Ministry of Finance and Economy and ARD. On-lending ternns will be
on the basis of a 20 year loan including a 5 year grace period, with interest of 2 percent for the first 5
years, 5 percent for the next 5 years and 7 percent thereafter. The lower than commercial rate of interest
for the first part of the loan repayment period is a reflection of ARD's present precarious financial
condition, which is expected to improve over time.
The counterpart financing for the Railways component is US$2.6 million, to be provided over about three
years. Due to the present limited financial capability of the ARD, it will be provided from the
Government's budget. Over the longer run, however, the Project is expected to have a favorable fiscal
impact from the reduction in operating expenses, as shown in the economic analysis tables, and the increase
in revenues resulting from increased freight (and to a lesser extent, increased passengers). Offsetting this
favorable impact is the repayment of the on-lending agreement to the Ministry of Finance and Economy
over a 20 year period. However, as shown in Annex 5, the overall impact is decidedly favorable, with
comfortable operating margins after the program has been put into effect.
3. Technical:
AR has developed the capability to use economic analysis for its road maintenance planning through the
institutional strengthening carried out under the Highway Project. However, this capability was not always
used by the Ministry of Transport and Communications in evaluating new investment projects,
demonstrating the importance of strengthening the MOTC's planning and economic analysis capability.
- 21 -



The Ministry now seems to realize that better analysis is required, and is giving AR a larger role in
planning all works in the road sector. The Transport Project will support this approach by a transfer of
technology from qualified foreign consultants and through study tours to other countries so that the
Ministry staff comes to a full understanding of the role of economic analysis and modem transport
planning. This will help to assure that not only this project, but all transport investments, will be based on
sound economic justifications in the future.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC) will have the overall responsibility for project
execution. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be established within MOTC, responsible for project
accounting, financial management reporting, administration of the Special Account, auditing arrangements,
and coordination with IDA. Detailed responsibilities of the cooperating agencies are spelled out below.
4.2 Project management:
The PIU under MOTC will be responsible for the submission of work programs, quarterly PMRs, progress
reports and audits, among others, based on information provided to it by the organizations implementing
parts of the project. The PIU will also handle all coordination with IDA, including the preparation and
submission of withdrawal requests. Armenia Roads (AR) and Armenia Railways Department (ARD) will
each be responsible for preparation of the designs, bidding documents, and supervision of contracts, and
satisfactory completion of works for their components of the project. They will maintain direct links to the
PIU for day-to-day operational matters such as the submission of financial management reports and
procurement documents for review when required. The PIU in tum will consolidate these reports and be
responsible for submitting them to IDA at agreed intervals and/or when requested.
Project Coordination:
Both the entities, AR and ARD, will be responsible for administering activities related to their respective
components. Since AR is familiar with the World Bank procurement procedures (because of its experience
with the Highway Project), it will assist the ARD and the MOTC in this regard. Both AR and ARD will
utilize their regular staffs to carry out the project activities rather than establishing separate PIUs. Both
entities will appoint Project Coordinators to serve as links to the PIU for project purposes.
The AR organization was established as an amalgamation of the PIU established for the Highway Project
with the Armenia Road Directorate. In order to ease the transformation from the old structure to the new
one, the project will finance the incremental operating costs, including office supplies, salaries, vehicle
operation and maintenance, utilities, and conimunications from the Credit on a declining basis, with 100
percent the first year, 80 percent the second year, 60 percent the third year, and 40 percent the fourth year
of the project.
Project Oversight: During each of the first two years of project implementation, three IDA supervision
missions will be required, followed by two per year thereafter until project completion. Each mission, of
about 10 days duration, will be comprised of staff with relevant skills such as highway engineer, a railway
expert, and a financial management specialist/officer, supplemented by appropriate specialists when
required. A midterm review, involving relevant Borrower agencies and IDA, will be carried out
approximately two years after project startup.
- 22 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During negotiations, it was agreed that key staff for the PIU would be hired and a qualified financial
consultant would be engaged immediately to assist in setting up a financial management system leading to
the production of Project Management Reports. This has been done, and the work is under way.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The environmental assessment for this project has been completed. The environmental consultant met with
Deputy Ministers and staff of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Nature
Protection, and the State Environmental Expertise. No significant negative environmental consequences
have been identified since no widening or new alignments are proposed for either the road or rail civil
works, and no areas of value for history or cultural heritage, no ecologically protected areas, and no ground
water pumping sites are affected by project works. Supervision procedures are well established in
Armenia, and specific training will be provided to ensure that supervisors are familiar with all
environmental requirements. The most significant new action called for in the Environment Management
Plan is the proposal to strengthen environmental management within the road sector by appointing and
providing training for one or two AR engineers to be responsible for environmental issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the EMP are related to (i) soil erosion; (ii) construction in and around water bodies;
(iii) air quality/ dust impacts; and (iv) road safety. The EMP covers appropriately all issues and the
Ministry of Transport and Communications as well as the contractors in Armenia understand the issues
well. As outlined in the EMP, (i) soil erosion will be minimized through adequate design and construction
methods; (ii) construction in and around water will be very limited, executed within coffer walls and no
hazardous materials will be pernitted to enter into water; (iii) the emissions from asphalt plants will be
controlled in accordance with Armenia environmental norms; and (iv) dust from traffic in connection with
road works will be minimized through watering. Road safety is a problem, and it is well addressed through
the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Received on March 12, 2000
The EA is complete, reviewed and updated.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan'? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
All work is normal road maintenance activity carried out within the road easement area. Consultations were
made with staff of AR and ARD and with the Ministry of Nature protection.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
envirornment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Ministry for Nature Protection through its Monitoring Unit is responsible for the monitoring.
6. Social:
- 23 -



6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The rehabilitation of the roads and railway will be done by improving existing roads and tracks, and
therefore there will be no resettlement issues and no adverse social consequences. During the past several
years, employment levels for all public entities have declined, as funds were not available to pay the
previous level of staff. At both AR and ARD, these reductions have now been completed, and no further
reductions are contemplated. There will, however, be positive social contributions in several respects: (i)
the road component will improve access to markets for farmers and other rural people; (ii) the railway
component will improve access to Armenia from abroad for relief supplies such as wheat and other
foodstuffs; and (iii) the Urban Transport Study will help prepare the foundation for more cost-efficient
urban transport, which in the future will facilitate access to jobs in Yerevan and commercial activities at
reasonable cost for those without private transport means.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Road rehabilitation is limited to main and secondary roads, and selection of components is based on
sophisticated analytical systems that limits the usefulness of public participation in the road selection
process. Road safety activities, however, including elimination of accident black spots, are identified and
designed in cooperation with the Traffic Police, representatives of the municipalities, schools and road user
organizations. The rail works include only rehabilitation of existing rail and rolling stock. The Urban
Transport Study, which might lead to substantial changes in urban transport traffic, will include
widespread consultations among both the operators and the public.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies ap    to the roect9
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)             Z Yes El No
El Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     O Yes O No
El Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                      El Yes I No
El Pest Manageient (OP 4.09                                         l Yes 1 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    O Yes I No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     El Yes X No
EI Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               El Yes E No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                El Yes E No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)     El Yes E No
E Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)            O Yes R No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
- 24 -



An environmental assessment was carried out, as described in para.5 above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
(a) Sustainability in the road subsector is contingent on the establishment of well functioning institutions
that plan and implement road construction and maintenance operations on the basis of traffic and transport
needs and technical and economic analysis. It also requires access to an adequate and sustained level of
financing. And it is dependent on Government leadership that recognizes that investments should only be
made when the benefits to the society exceed the costs.
(b) Sustainability of railway improvements depends on the establishment of a railway organization that is
providing essential services to the country on a financially viable basis; this in turn will require that the
railway organization is run efficiently, has freight and passenger charges that cover operational costs, and
on the basis of those charges can successfully compete with alternative transport modes.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating           Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Project implementation skills in AR      S         1.1 Positive dialogue with the Minister of
may be lost                                           Transport and Communications on importance
of retaining these skills
2. Delays in counterpart financing may      H         2.1 Legal Agreement requires an advance
delay or obstruct project implementation              deposit of counterpart funds, and replenishment
of a Project Account when needed thereafter
2.2 Support for Government initiative to create
a Road Fund
3. Rail traffic may move slowly even after  M         3.1 Improvements in ARD management will
improvements are made                                reduce this risk, and dialogue with Georgia
supported by EU and the US
4. MOTC may not support the economic        M         4.1 Dialogue with the MOTC to emphasize the
planning procedures now in use in AR for              importance of this issue, and inclusion of a
road maintenance planning                             component for training and technical support
From Components to Outputs
1. There could be replacement of the key    S         1.1 IDA has emphasized the importance of
staff in AR and/or ARD that would set                 retaining well-qualified key staff in its dialogue
back the program                                      with the Government, and has assisted in getting
special salary levels for AR staff
2. ARD may have lost its capacity to        S         2.1 Project includes equipment for repair
carry out in-house track repairs and may              facilities, and ARD has recently repaired
lack facilities for locomotive overhauls             locomotives for Georgia
3. MOTC staff may not absorb and apply      M         3.1 This risk is mitigated by the Minister of
the training in economic analysis                     MOTC's interest in the program.
Overall Risk Rating                         5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-25 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Delay in the provision of both counterpart funding and an adequate level of budget allocation for AR has
been a continual problem during the implementation of the Highway Project due to the Government's
overall budget constraints. This will continue to be a problem, although the Government seems to be more
aware than in the past of the importance of making an adequate level of financing available on a timely
basis for road maintenance.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(i) The Government has opened a Project Account in a bank satisfactory to IDA, and has deposited
sufficient counterpart funds in the Project Account to cover the Government's obligations for the first four
months (estimated at US$600,000 equivalent).
(ii) The Government has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ARD under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(i) The Government will carry out an urban transport study, based on terms of reference acceptable to IDA,
to be completed by December 31, 2002. The study's brief would be to prepare a longer-term urban
transport development strategy for Yerevan, inclusive of current demand and demand forecasts; public
transport organization, regulation and development; road traffic management, road maintenance, and road
system development; a pricing/subsidy policy for public transport and roads, aiming for a gradual decrease
in public subsidies, but mindful of social protection; a financial plan for the sector; and an investment
program for the sector, consistent with the financial plan.
(ii) The Government agrees that it will use cost benefit analysis to determine road segments to repair, as
well as for all investments in the transport sector, and will only undertake projects with a positive Net
Present Value based on a cost of capital of 12 percent.
(iii) The annual budget for Armenia Roads SS CC will be increased each year by not less than the
percentage increase in the Government's overall revenues compared to the previous year, with the budget
for the year 2000 as the base. In addition, further increases in this budget will be achieved through
increased revenues generated by adjustments in Armenia's road user charges, based on a study to be carried
out by the Govermment, with the objective of reaching a budget for AR of not less than US$16 million per
year by the year 2004.
(iv) The Government will, not later than November 30, 2000, hire independent auditors acceptable to IDA
for the audit of the records, accounts and financial statements for the project.
- 26 -



(v) Not later than December 31, 2000, the Government will establish a mechanism acceptable to IDA for
setting ARD's tariffs.
(vi) ARD will implement the restructuring as outlined in the report entitled "Project for Structural and
Economic Reform to be Carried out at the Armenian Railways: 1998-2001", and will provide IDA
periodic reports on progress in implementation.
(vii) Procurement will be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, and as outlined in the
Procurement Annexes attached to this PAD.
(viii) Not later than August 31 of each year, the Government will furnish IDA the annual work program
for the next year, including procurement and financing plans, and will review these plans with IDA before
implementing them.
(ix) The Government will submit to IDA a quarterly Project Progress Report not later that 30 days after
the end of the quarter outlining progress made in the implementation of each project component, as well as
the problems encountered and how they are being addressed.
(x) The Government and IDA will carry out a Mid-Term Review by June 30, 2002, and will make any
necessary adjustments in the project deemed necessary by that Review.
(xi) The Government will prepare, not later than 6 months after the Closing Date, a plan for the future
operation of the Project activities, and the Government's input into the Implementation Completion Report,
both of which will be reviewed with IDA.
(xii) The Government will on-lend a portion of the IDA Credit to ARD on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA.
(xiii) The Government will maintain the PIU within MOTC, with the staff, resources and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 27 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
EK 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
RlJOM  A        (i
Anders H. G. Bonde                          Halp
Team Leader                       Sect6r Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ARMENIA: Transport Project
,y- Peftormance
*Hleyarchy   oflectves           tnd_cators          MooitoringlE&vatuatn   Gritical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS objective: Support for   Improved road network,  Annual economic statistics,  Improved transport system
private sector development by reduced transit time for  and MOTC annual report    will result in increased
alleviating key transport  railways.                                            economic growth and poverty
bottlenecks in transport                                                        alleviation
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
I. Improve the main road  1.1 Vehicle operating cost    1. I Quarterly progress reports 1. Improved road network will
network and AR operational,  reduced                 and Project Completion     facilitate increased private
road safety, and AR        1.2 Roughness of the principal Report                sector investment
operational efficiency    800 km of the main road
network reduced from 4.67
IRI in 1998 to 4.00 IRI by the
end of the project
1.3 road fatalities reduced
from 12.1 per 10,000 vehicles
to 11.0 by 2004
1.4 ERRs for road and bridge
work better than 20 percent
2. Improve rail service   2.1 Reduce transit time    2.1 Quarterly reports on   2. Improved rail system will
between Yerevan and Georgia, between Yerevan and the  freight and passenger     lead to increased private sector
and operational efficiency of  Georgian border by one-half  movements           investment
ARC                       (from 10 hours to 5 hours)
2.2 ARD meets financial and  2.2 Quarterly financial
operational targets set forth in summaries, and audited
Annex 5                   annual financial statements,
annual Business Plans
3. Improve investment and    3.1 Ministry makes sound  3.1 IDA supervision mission  3.1 Better planning and
budget planning in MOTC    recommendations for the   and Country Operations     resource allocation will lead to
Government's Public       assessment of Government's  a higher rate of economic
Investment Program based on PIP                      growth
economic analysis
-29 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1.1 Roads rehabilitated as  1.1 350 Km of roads       -Quarterly progress reports   1.1 Delays in counterpart
planned                    improved from poor to good   -Mission field visits     financing will be overcome
condition and 10 bridges   -Mid-term Review
repaired                   -Statistical data for Armenia
1.2. AR attains increased  1.2 PMS installed and in use                           1.2. Project implementation
skills in road maintenance    for road work planning                              skills learned in the Highway
planning and contracting   1.3 All periodic and some                              Project will be retained by AR
routine maintenance                                    and personnel retained
contracted
2.1 ARD transformation to an 2.1 Improved financial                               2.1 Improvements in ARD
efficient railway organization  management system installed,                      structure and operating
increases in freight volume                            systems will result in
improved operations
2.2 Railways infrastructure   2.2 Tracks and sleepers                             2.2 Improved rail bed will
improved                   installed, rolling stock                               reduce travel time
overhauled
3.1 Better planning using  3.1 Recommended                                        3.1 MOTC will apply the
economic analysis for      investments based on                                   training and technical support
transport projects         economic evaluations                                   to produce better investment
recommendations
3.2 Urban transport study  3.2 Study completed                                    3.2 Yerevan city government
completed                                                                         will cooperate in preparing the
study
- 30 -



Key Pertotmance:
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Asumpt,ions
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Road rehabilitation and  US$30.90 m.               Supervision missions        1. The Government retains the
Institutional Reform                                                              qualified senior staff in AR
and ARD
2. Railways rehabilitation and US$15.20 m.             Supervision missions       2. ARD has the in-house
Institutional Reform                                                              capability to install the tracks
and overhaul the locomotives
3. Strengthen MOTC         US$0.90 m.                  IDA mission assessment     3. MOTC has staff that will
absorb and apply the training
in economic analysis
- 31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ARMENIA: Transport Project
The project has a total cost of US$47.0 million. It will have the following main components (all cost
estimates for civil works and equipment include physical contingencies of 10 percent and price
contingencies of 5.0 percent, and other costs include 1.9 percent per year for price contingencies).
By Component:
Project Component i - US$30.90 million
Rehabilitation of the National Road Network and Supporting Institutions
(a)    Civil Works for Road Rehabilitation (US$20.0 milion):  The Project will include the
rehabilitation of selected sections of the main 1300 km of roads in Armenia, based on roughness and
strength surveys used as the basis for HDM-3 economic analysis. Proposed treatments include 81 km of
surface dressing, 246 km of overlays, and 23.7 km of reconstruction. The road sections to be included in
the project were those with the highest ratio of Net Present Value (NPV) to investment cost. The average
estimated economic rate of return for the sections targeted for rehabilitation have an average ERR of 76
percent. Each year the selection of road sections and proposed rehabilitation measures will be reviewed,
based on an updated HDM analysis with input from an annual survey of traffic and road conditions.
(b)    Civil Works for Bridge Rehabilitation (US$3.7 million):  Bridges have been selected for
rehabilitation to be carried out during the first year on the basis of a bridge survey and economic analysis
to determine the highest ration of NPV to investment cost. Transfer of technology with regard to bridge
survey, bridge management, bridge rehabilitation and maintenance technology and economic evaluation
forms a very important part of the Bridge Rehabilitation component and further survey, economic
evaluation, and design will be carried out as part of a process to introduce these technologies.
(c)    Engineering Design and Supervision (US$1.3 million): A combination of foreign and local
consultants will be used for the design, preparation of bidding documents, and supervision for the road and
bridge civil works. A total of about 400 local and 30 foreign consultant staff months will be needed to
carry out this activity.
(d)    Road Safety (US$5.0 million): This component will include technical services (US$0.5 million),
equipment (US$2.0 million), and civil works (US$2.5 million) to carry out a Road Safety program that will
include (i) the establishment of a National Road Safety Council with a permanent Secretariat, (ii)
development of an Accident Data System, (iii) carying out safety engineering activities including the
establishment of accident standards, (iv) conducting a safety audit, (v) establishing the capacity for making
signs and for road marking, (vi) support for a vehicle inspection program, (vii) providing safety engineering
training, (viii) providing traffic control equipment such as speed detectors, (ix) providing safety education
within the school system, and (x) making the physical changes needed to eliminate some accident black
spots as these are identified through the accident reporting system.
(e)    Institutional Strengthening of AR (US$0.9 million): This component will include technical
services (US$0.3 million), administrative support for AR's headquarters operations on a declining basis
(US$0.4 million), and for the purchase of office equipment (US$0.2 million) in order to continue the work
of strengthening AR's ability to carry out routine maintenance by contract, introduce additional new
- 32 -



technologies, and for improving and expanding AR's capacity for economic analysis and maintenance
planning, especially for bridges.
Project Component 2 - US$15.20 million
Rehabilitation of the Facilities and Restructuring of the Armenia Railways Department (ARD)
(a)    Repair of Tracks and Bridges for the line from Yerevan to the Georgian border (US$5.5
milion): Localized areas of short distances of track will be rehabilitated and four bridges will be repaired.
Materials, including rails and sleepers, will be procured and installed by ARD's own forces, except for the
replacement of bridge superstructures.
(b)    Energy Supply Infrastructure (US$0.9): This will include the replacement of 150 km of contact
wire, and repair of equipment at substations. Equipment procured under the Project will be installed with
ARD's own forces.
(c)    Telecommunications (US$0.9): This will include the installation of 42 km of cable, replacing the
open wire system in one region, providing dispatch telephones in stations, substations energy supply posts
and signaled crossings, and installation of central control panels at 8 stations and batteries at two
communication buildings. Materials procured under the Project will be installed with ARD's own forces.
(d)    Overhaul of Locomotives, Wagons and Passenger Coaches (US$5.8 million): The overhaul of
locomotives and other rolling stock will be carried out at ARD's repair facilities using spare parts procured
under the Project.
(e)    Improvement of Repair Facilities (US$1.2 miflion): This will include equipment to upgrade the
repair facilities at two of ARD's existing repair facilities. These shops and their crews are capable of
carrying out high quality work if modem equipment and spare parts are available.
(f)    Technical Support and Training (US$0.6 million):  Consultants experienced in railway
operations will be provided to support the restructuring of ARD, including the creation of separate
operating companies for the management of the infrastructure, the rolling stock, and for the business
operations of the railway. The objective will be to establish railway operations on the basis of a
market-driven system competing with other forms of transport. The consultants will assist in clarifying the
Government's oversight role, establishing appropriate accounting systems that separate passenger from
freight operations, in setting appropriate tariffs, and in arranging relevant training, both in Armenia and
abroad.
(g)    Administrative Support (US$0.3 million): The project will provide office equipment needed to
bring ARD's operations up to modem standards for accounting, tracking of goods in shipment, and
communications locally and abroad.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.90 million
Support for the Ministry of Transport and Communications
The project will provide office equipment (US$0.1 million), technical services of about 8 staff months and
training (US$0.2 million), and administrative support for the central project PIU, including salaries and
operating expenses (US$0.2 million) to enable the Ministry to become proficient in economic analysis as a
- 33 -



basis for project evaluation, and to coordinate the project, including expertise in World Bank procurement
and accounting procedures. It will also include the preparation of an urban transport study for Yerevan
(US$0.4 million), to be commissioned jointly by the MOTC and the Municipality of Yerevan, that outlines
the major transport issues and recommended solutions to the transport needs of the capital city for the next
ten years, which will enable the Ministry to plan for meeting these needs and to assist it in securing
financing.
-34 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ARMENIA: Transport Project
-r~t 'ot y           ''' 'E - ..-.          Lo..I       F.rein         Tt-Tl.;
"Oct :  -     ej-ost 13y C nant   - --; . :: :US $mtlon    Un   US $lon
1 Rehabilitation of the National Road Network              7.90        18.90         26.80
2. Restructuring of Annenia Railways Depaltment            2.20         11.00        13.20
3. Support for the Ministry of Transport and Cormnunications  0.20      0.60          0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                       10.30        30.50         40.80
Physical Contingencies                                    1.00         3.10          4.10
Price Contingencies                                       0.50          1.60         2.10
Total Project Costs              11.80        35.20        47.00
Total Financing Required              11.80         35.20        47.00
LozaI       F-reign   -T
Project cost By                          S$ Ot                 - ;-.... ... US $miion
Goods                                                        0.10         14.50        14.60
Works                                                       10.10         18.40        28.50
Services                                                    0.70           0.60         1.30
Training and TA                                              0.30          1.70         2.00
Administrative Support                                       0.60          0.00         0.60
Total Project Costs     11.80         35.20        47.00
Total Financing Required     11.80         35.20         47.00
- 35 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ARMENIA: Transport Project
[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Beniefits:
NPV w/ 12% cost of     US$75.0 m.
capital
Costs:                 US$38.0 m.
Net Benefits:          US$37.0 m.
IRR:                       45.5 %
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Road component:
Total Cost of Road Rehabilitation:                      US$20.0 million
Net Present Value (based on 12 percent cost of capital):  US$62.6 million
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):                76.0 percent
Bridge Component:
Cost of Bridge Program                                  US$3.7 million
Net Present Value (based on 12 percent cost of capital):  US$4.5 million
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR):                28.0 percent
Railway component:
Total Cost of the Railway Component (before contingencies):   US$12.6 million
Net Present Value (based on 12 percent cost of capital):  US$7.9 million (low growth)
Economic Intemal Rate of Retum (EIRR):                  22.2 percent (low growth)
Main Assumptions:
Road component:
The detailed economic analysis is contained in the report entitled "Road Network Survey in Armenia and
Four Year Investment Program Development" prepared by DorProject and dated January 1999. The
economic analysis is based on the following:
*   The analysis is based on the 1995 version of the World Bank HDM-3 Highway Design and
Maintenance model. This calculates the net reduction in total transportation costs over the life
- 36 -



of the project, taking account of savings in road user costs, primarily operating cost, along
with changes in construction and maintenance costs. User cost savings depend mainly on
changes in road roughness. Benefits were calculated for both present and estimated increased
traffic levels.
*   The traffic growth rates were based on a 5 percent rate of growth until the year 2006 and 2
percent growth thereafter.
*   Analysis was carried out for 1319.32 km of roads, selected on the basis of the most used roads
in the country but excluding roads already improved under the ongoing Highway Project. The
analysis was based on a survey of roughness and visual inspection of pavement condition for
each 100 meter section. Maintenance options considered were: (i) routine maintenance, (ii)
surface dressing with a leveling layer for 30 percent of the length, (iii) 5 cm overlay with
leveling layer for 40 percent of the length, (iv) a 5 cm overlay and a 6 cm overlay, and (v)
reconstruction.
*   Sections selected for inclusion in this project were based on a ranking by highest NPV to cost
ratio, limited by the availability of funds. NPV was calculated on the basis of a 12 percent
cost of capital.
*   Cost of maintenance operations was based on the actual experience of such works carried out
under the ongoing Highway Project.
*   Shadow pricing was not considered necessary since the altemative opportunities for labor in
the existing economic environment are not plentiful. Therefore, the current costs do not need
to be adjusted to reflect altemative opportunity costs. Further, the exchange rate is freely
floating and does not appear to be over or under valued; therefore the value of costs and
benefits used in the analysis does not need to be adjusted.
*   The benefits from the Road Safety component can not be calculated at this time since the
specific civil works subprojects have not been identified, and consequently the costs for this
sub-component are not included in this analysis. However, typically improvements in accident
black spots produces economic rates of return over 50 percent, which is likely in Armenia
since no such improvements have been introduced in the past.
Bridge Component:
Three bridges on important routes and in urgent need of repair were selected for the initial calculation.
Altemative strategies were tested for these bridges, including repair, reconstruction using existing parts
and/or widening and raising, reconstruction using existing piers, and complete reconstruction. The strategy
with the highest ratio of NPV to cost was selected for the final design. Benefits were from savings in road
user costs due to reduced delays, reduced accidents, reduced cost of transport on detours, and from savings
in future rehabilitation or reconstruction costs arising from timely rehabilitation. The economic model is
based on the Bridge Economic Methodology jointly developed by DORIS Consulting Engineers and World
Bank specialists for use on the Russian Bridge Rehabilitation Project, with bridges and rehabilitation
strategies selected on the basis of those having the highest ratio of NPV to investment cost. Net Present
Values were calculated on the basis of 12 percent cost of capital. It is expected that the remaining bridges
to be included in the program will have similar rates of return based on the almost complete lack of bridge
maintenance since 1991.
- 37 -



The sensitivity analysis showed that the investments would have a positive Net Present Value even with a
20 percent increase in the cost of civil works, a 20 percent decrease in traffic, a 20 percent decrease in
travel speed and a 20 percent decrease in unit vehicle operating costs (each calculated separately).
Railway component:
Economic returns were calculated on the basis of three traffic growth scenarios, as follows:
Scenario I:  3% growth in freight ton/km starting in 2003
Scenario II: Medium growth in freight ton/km of 6% starting in 2003
Scenario III: High growth (borders open up)
Benefits were based on savings in maintenance costs, energy savings, reduction in derailments, reduction in
excessive deterioration of equipment due to poor rail condition, reductions in track closures and locomotive
failures, improved fleet availability, and increased workshop efficiency, and growth in traffic compared to
continued deterioration of the system if no improvements are made.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Road component:
Sensitivity to changes in the cost of maintenance and to traffic intensity were calculated. The
results showed a greater sensitivity to changes in traffic levels, although the initial results are so high that
even the combined effect of both cost increases and traffic shortfalls of 20 percent each only reduces the
projected EIRR from 76.0 percent to 65.7 percent, which is still very acceptable.
Increase of Decrease   EIRR Change         NPV Change
Construction Cost                 20 %              +/-12 %              +1- 1%
Traffic Level                     20 %              +/- 15 %             +/- 21 %
- 38 -



Railway component:
The use of three scenarios was intended to provide the basis for a sensitivity analysis, with the low
case indicating the economic results if traffic growth is at the low end to the range of estimates. In the
event that the traffic growth only realized the rate projected in the slow growth scenario, the economic
retums would nevertheless be favorable, as indicated in the table below:
Results of Economic Analysis
NPV                     IRR
TOTAL lRETIRNS            Scenario I                    $7.9 million              22.2 %
Scenario II                  $29.4 million             47.4 %
Scenario III                 $41.8 million             76.0 %
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
- 39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ARMENIA: Transport Project
Years Ending
June 30, US$ million
Year1 I   Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4      Year 5| Year 6        Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           8.2        9.5       11.8       11.7       5.8        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          8.2        9.5       11.8       11.7       5.8        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              8.2        9.5       11.8       11.7       5.8        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   7.0        8.0       10.0      10.0        5.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 1.1        1.3        1.6        1.6       0.8       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.1        0.2       0.2        0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     8.2        9.5       11.8       11.7        5.8      0.0        0.0.
Main assumptions:
IDA will finance US$40.0 million of the proposed project's estimated total cost of US$47.0
million. Grant-financing sources, including Canada, US, and France will provide US$0.6 million,
and the Government will finance the balance.
- 40 -



Annex 5
Aienia Railwy Dparlnert
InTome Statements
Years Ending Deeaier 31: 1997 dntugh 2005
(In Miions of Damis)
1997 - 2000 ctnmnt pmes; 2001 -2005 constant nud 2000 pnm
Adul  Aclaw   AcduW                     Foract
1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    2003    2004    2005
Operatng Revenue
PasengeSrvices                             114     141    129    133    133    133        137     141      145
FeghtOpewtbom                            3,368   4,514  3,553   3,660  3,660   3,660    3,769    3,882    3,999
Ober                                       351     177    859    800    800    800        200     400      712
Total Operating Revenue:                   3,833   4,833  4,541   4,592  4,593  4,593    4,106    4,424    4,856
Oter nonmoperating PReenue                           100    450    450    510    600       900      700      700
Revenue                                    3,833   4,933  4,991   5,042  5,103   5,193    5,006    5,124    5,556
Operating Expense
Wagesandsaaties                            512      718    993   1,043   1,043   1,043    1,043    1,043    1,043
Cherlaboracosts                            184     270    300    315    315    315        315      315      315
Fuel and electuicity                      1,062   1,380  1,380   1,449   1,449   1,449    916      954     993
MBriled expenses                           706     950    900    945    945    945        590      615      640
Meintewnance                               150      550    525    551    551    551       486      502      519
Otw expenses                               323     850    345    200    200    200        500      450      500
UseofaSu3waorrs                            811
Deprecaon                                  238      367    370    375    392    448       536      587      599
Total Operaing Expenses:                   3,986   5,085  4,813  4,878  4,895  4,951    4,386    4,466    4,609
operainghcome                               -153    -152    178    165    208    242       621      658      947
Firnnal Incxne Qloses)                              292    -31
Interest expenses (md. IDA service diarge)                                  14     43       59       59       59
Exb-ordinty Expe:
kcone before Taxes                         -153     140    147    165    194    199        562      599     888
Taxes                                       132      166    164    166    166    166       149      160      176
NET NY;OIVE                                -285     -26    -18      -2     28      33      413     439      712
Ratios
Working raio                                98%     98%    98%    98%    98%    98%        94%     88%      83%
-41 -



Annex 5
Aminia Raiway DLnpnrAmf
BaLanc Sheet
Years Erpng Decembr 31: 1997 fnuugi 2005
(hi MiDions of Drains)
1997 - 2000 aient pnces; 2001 -2005 omnsnt mid 2000 ps
Actal/ Actual ActEal                   Forecast
1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002    2003    2004    200s
Asses
CunentAssets
Cash ardEEAt                               (18)    103    121    141    297    596    1,191    1,607    2,041
Acoxts Roeivbe                            1,420   1,410  1,500  1,358   1,250  1,445    1,266    1,334    1,433
Rotsion for Bad Debt (-)
Inventry                                   904   1,178  1,099   1,100   1,212   1,140    1,100    1,033    1,010
O1erCunentAssets                             8      31     48      80     23     50       74       74      74
Totad CurewtAssets                        2,314   Z722  2,768  2,679  2,782  3232    3,631    4,048    4,558
FDced Assets
GissFDcedAssetsinOperabon                12,306  13,169 13,279  13,489  14,489  17,489   20,786   21,136   21,636
Less Arxiantited Depeation                5,012   5,521  5,891   6,266  6,657  7,105    7,641    8,228    8,827
Net Fied Assts i Oaon                     7,294   7,648  7,388  7,223  7,832  10,384   13,145   12,908   12,809
OdierAssets                               1,048   1,091  1,260  1,250  2,282  4,602    2,105    2,054    2,055
Tota FRied Assets                         8,342   8,739  8,648  8,473  10,114  14,986   15,250   14,962   14,864
Total Assets                             10,656  11,461  11,416  11,152  12i895 18,218   18,881   19,011   19,422
Usbilffes
Curent LUabilities
Bank Ov
Akxxuits Payable                         2,576   2,988  2,815  2,600  2,300  2,300    2,100    2,000    1,900
Othef Curfrt Uabites (ind. eauss to the State)    203  239    292    245    220    200   150       42      40
Total Cunet Liabilieis                   2,779   3,227  3,107   Z845  2,520  2,500    2,250    2,042    1,940
Long-Tern Liabflhies and Equity
Lonrg-Tem Det                                                          3,685  7,685    7,685    7,685    7,685
Sha'hed Eqit
Ttal Paid4n Capral                       7,917   7,917  7,917  7,917  7,917  7,917    7,917    7,917    7,917
GouvnentCorbLtxon                          394     449    542    542    542    542       542      542     542
Othef CGias                                  0       0      0       0     55    165      165      165     165
Reval,abi and Othff erMTEnf s             (328)                       (1,700)  (500)
Reakied Eanmigs                           (106)   (132)  (150)  (152)  (124)   (91)    322        760    1,473
Totl Smmarhodders Equity                 7,877   8,234  8,309  8,307  6,690  8,033    8,946    9,384   10,097
Tota LiatiIities and Equity             10,656  11,461  11,416  11,152  12,895 18,218   18,881   19,111   19,722
CuTnet Rato                                 0.8     0.8    0.9    0.9    1.1    1.3       1.6      2.0     2.3
CuTert Rabo (E)d Cash)                      0.8     0.8    0.9    0.9    1.0    1.1       1.1      1.2      1.3
Debt?Equity                                 0%      0%     0%/0   0%/o   55%    96%      860/0    82%     76%
- 42 -



Anmex 5
Aneia Railway Deparment
Cash Flow Statements
Yeas Ending December31: 1997 tough 2005
(In Mflions of Dkams)
1997 - 2000 cnrent pics; 2001 -200 coastant mid 2000 pices
Acb.saI  Asj   Acftu                          Forecast
1997    1998    1999   2000   201W   2002    2003    2004    2005
Cash Flow From Operdaons
Operabng lncoxme                            (153)   (152)   178    165    208    242        621      658      947
Bad Debt Write off                            0        0      0       0       0      0        0        0        0
Dxepation (+)                               238      367    370    375    392    448        536      587      599
Taxes (-)                                    132     166    164    166    166    166        149      160      176
Cash Fkos From Operabons                     (47)     48    384    373    433    523    1,008    1,084    1,370
Debt Servce
Interest Expenses and Fees                    0        0      0       0      14     43       59       59       59
Pncipal
Total Debt Service                            0        0      0       0      14     43       59       59       59
ChangesinWoddngCapditOlwherthanCash(-)       (50)   (161)   148    153    272    171         54      210      178
Adjustments (-)
Financial Investnents(-)                               0      0       0      0       0
Cash Flow Avaiable for Capil Expenditre       3      209    236    220    148    310        895      816    1,133
Capital Expenditures                        415      144    310    200   3,402   3,695      300      400      700
Financing Gap                               412      (66)    74    (20) 3254   4385                 (416)    (433)
Financed by.
Debt (ind. IDA credit)                                                    3,355   3,575
State Budget Infastructure Investments
State Budget Equity Conribution             394       55     93
State Budget Accunts Payable
Other Grants                                                                 55    110
Total                                        394      55      93      0   3,410   3,685       0        0        0
Cash IncreaseDecrease                        (18)    120      19     20    156    300       595      416      433
Cash Beginning ofYear                          0     (18)   103    121    141    297        596    1,191    1,607
Cash End of Year                             (18)    103    121    141    297    596    1,191    1,607    Z041
Ratios
Debt Sevice Coverage Rato                                                 31.0 x  12.2 x    17.1 x    18.4 x   23.2 x
Self Financing Ratko                          1%     72%   108%/o   17%      6%    13%      61%
Note: Capital expenditures are net of ARDs contrbution, hiich cosists of salaries and wages of its own staff.
-43 -



Annex 5
Armenia Railway Department
Assumptions
1997-2000 current prices; 2001 -2005 constant mid 2000 prices
actual     actual   actual                  forecast
1997       1998     1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Macroeconomic Assumptions
Domestic Inflation (CPI)                           13.5%       8.9%
GDP (dram million)                               804,335   958,791
GDP Growth (%)                                     21.6%      19.2%
Exchange rates (US$ 1 = Drams)                       491        505    535       550     550      550      550     550      550
Revenue Assumptions
Price Increases
Passenger
Average unit revenue (dram per passenger-km)        1.36      2.70    2.84    2.93      2.93    2.93     2.93    2.93    2.93
Average unit revenue (US$ per passenger-km)        0.003     0.005   0.005   0.005    0.005    0.005   0.005   0.005   0.005
% change (dram per pkm)                           -7.7%       93%      -1%      0%      0%       0%       0%      0%       0%
Freight
Average unit revenue (dram per ton-km)              8.84     10.80   11.00    11.33    11.33    11.33    11.33   11.33   11.33
Average unit revenue (US$ per ton-km)              0.018     0.021   0.021    0.021    0.021    0.021    0.021    0.021   0.021
% change (dram per tkm)                           0.02%       19%    -4%        0%      0%       0%       0%      0%       0%
Traffic Growth
Passenger
Passenger-Km (million)                               84         52      45      45       45       45      47       48      50
% change                                          -0.2%      -38%    -13%       0%      0%       0%       3%      3%       3%
No. of passengers (million)                       1.924      1.588   1.323
% change                                             3%      -17%    -17%
Freight
Domestic-tons (million)                             0.37
Export-tons (million)                               0.30
Import-tons (million)                               1.02
Total-tons (million)                                1.69      2.17    1.41
Total ton-km (million)                              381        418    323       323     323      323      333     343      353
% change                                             9%       10%   -23%        0%      0%       0%       3%      3%       3%
-44-



ARMENIA RAILWAY DEPARTMENT
PROJECT FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
(in constant prices)
Incremental
Incremental  reduction in
operating    operating       Net
Investment   revenues    expenses       benefits
2000                                                        0.00
2001               7.30                                     (7.30)
2002               7.90                                     (7.90)
2003                             0.21         1.89          2.10
2004                             0.21         1.92          2.13
2005                             0.43         1.94          2.36
2006                             0.44         1.96          2.40
2007                             0.66         1.98          2.64
2008                             0.68         2.01          2.69
2009                             0.91         2.03          2.94
2010                             0.93         2.06          2.99
2011                             1.17         2.09          3.26
2012                             1.20         2.12          3.32
2013                             1.45         2.14          3.59
2014                             1.49         2.17          3.66
2015                             1.74         2.20          3.95
2016                             1.79         2.24          4.03
2017                             2.05         2.27          4.32
2018                             2.12         2.30          4.42
2019                             2.39         2.33          4.72
2020                             2.46         2.37          4.83
|NPV (US$ M)         $3.47
IFRR                   16% 
-45 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ARMENIA: Transport Project
Procurement
Civil works, goods and services under IDA-financed components shall be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services financed from the proceeds of the
credit shall be procured in accordance with the Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The World Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposal will be used. For contracts for works,
goods and consulting services not financed from the IDA credit the Bank shall be satisfied that the
procedures to be used will fulfill the Borrower's obligations to cause the project to be carried out diligently
and efficiently, as described in the above mentioned Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" (Par. 1.5) and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (Par. 1.8).
The General Procurement Notice for the Project was published in Development Business on April 5, 2000.
A workshop for launching the project will be held in May 2000
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil works estimated to cost $600,000 equivalent or more and goods estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or more will be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Since there are not
large or complex work contracts in this project the qualification method will be postqualification. Small and
scattered work contracts for the Road Safety sub-component and for bridge rehabilitation estimated to cost
less than US$600,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$2,550,000 may be
procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts for purchase of office
equipment under the project estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate of
US$600,000 equivalent (up to US$200,000 for Part A of the Project, up to US$300,000 for Part B of the
Project and up to US$100,000 for the Part C of the Project) may be procured by national shopping,
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers. Para. 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8 of the Guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" will be followed to determine eligibility for bidding for
contracts procured under the Project. Government-owned enterprises in the Borrower's country may
participate only if they can establish that they (i) are legally and financially autonomous, and (ii) operate
under commercial law.
For procurement of consultant design and supervision services, Quality and Costs Based Selection will be
the selection method. However, due to the nature of the project where transfer of technology, training or the
need for research and studies may arise, small consultant contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 400,000 (up to US$270,000 for Part C of the Project,
US$30,000 for Part B of the Project, and US$100,000 for Part C of the Project) may be procured under
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Individual consultants up to an aggregate amount of
US$70,000 (up to US$20,000 for the Part C of the Project and US$50,000 for the Part A of the Project)
may be selected on the basis of the procedures for selection of individual consultants established in the
Guidelines. In procuring services not financed from the Credit, the Bank shall satisfy itself that (a) the
procedures to be used will result in the selection of consultants who have the necessary professional
qualifications, (b) the selected consultant will carry out the assignment in accordance with the agreed
schedule, and (c) the scope of services is consistent with the needs of the project.
- 46 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
pehdlture Category              K:;            NCN Other3               _    ._.F       Total Cost
1. Works                           23.70           2.55           0.00           1.70          27.95
(19.81)        (2.29)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (22.10)
2. Goods                            14.85          0.00           0.60           0.00          15.45
(14.00)        (0.00)         (0.60)         (0.00)        (14.60)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00           2.70           0.30          3.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (2.70)         (0.00)         (2.70)
4. PIU Operational Cost             0.00           0.00           0.60           0.00          0.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.60)         (0.00)         (0.60)
Total                           38.55           2.55           3.90           2.00          47.00
(33.81)        (2.29)         (3.90)         (0.00)        (40.00)
li Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services.
- 47 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           2.24      0.00      0.00   .  0.00      0.40      0.00      0.30      2.94
(2.24)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0. 40)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.64)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00       0.06      0.00      0.06
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.06)    (0.00)    (0.06)
Total   2.24     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.40      0.06      0.30      3.00
(2.24)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.40)    (0.06)    (0.00)    (2.70)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 48 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Co-Vtract Va-ue                               Contracts Sutjct to
- . . . - - -Threstld    i   P roE - . .. - ,-ur Em- .  Prior RFeview
Expendltur Category       (U- $  usands}        ,thbd               im
1. Works                         > 600                   ICB                     All (23.70)
< 600 (2.76 million             NCB           First Two Contracts (2.55
aggregate)                                    million aggregate)
2. Goods                        > 100                     ICB                    All (14.85)
<100                    NS                      All (0.60)
3. Services                      >100                    QCBS                    All (2.24)
<100                    CQ                      All (0.40)
Critical Assignments            All                     All
< 75 for cons. firms          Other              No (Only TOR)
<50 for ind. consultants          Other              No (Only TOR)
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: About 42 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 5 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 49 -



Table B-I
Section 1: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
Brief Statement
Primary responsibility for administrating procurement will rest with the PIU of the Armenia Ministry of
Transport and Communications, which will have support from Armenia Roads.
Armenia Roads has good procurement experience and will assist the MOTC and the ARD in procurement matters
Will the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations:
No, the bidding documents for the first year procurement will be ready by May 15, 2000. ECA Regional
Documents will be used for NCB works.
Section: 2 Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of Project Launch Workshop:
May, 2000
Date ofpublication of General Procurement Notice:
April 5, 2000
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business:
No
Domestic Preference for Goods:
Yes
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable:
Yes
Retroactive Financing: No
Advance Procurement: No
Section 3: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Name: Anders Bonde, Division: ECSIN Extension: 39272
Brief description of the role expected of the Field Office in Procurement: Bank's Country Office in Armenia
(Alexander Astvatsatryan) will provide back-up on procurement support to the PIU.
- 50 -



Table B-2. PROCUREMENT PLAN
The procurement plan for the second and subsequent years of the project have tentative dates. The
plan will be reviewed and revised as appropriate at the beginning of each year.
Type    Number of   Esttmaledent  Procnarment   Pre-qUiSL    (BODIRFP)  Bid        l- Ceottt    coetroct
.in.l.e.it.ea..  wit         M.thod     I. Invi:ttion   t.Pnp atlnn  Svitotlon  Signing    Completion
Abpg ciksr  ontingngiens             GPNISPNi/oLo              GPWiSPNil
ACTIVITY               DESCRIPTiONj  2 Opening                                                                           2. Opening 3. Ev.1
3. EV I  Recom.Avyrd
oard M-1 Yerevan liumun corgian
I     Border, Surface Dressing                CW    None              1,190        ICB    GPN 03/30/00   4/28/200  1. 520/00           815/00     11/30/01
km 11+800 - km 30.500                                                                                          2. 7/05/00
3. 7115100
Road M-2 Yerevan-Goris-lran Border,
2     Overlay and Leveling Course             CW    None              1,420        lCB    GPN 03/30/00   04/28/200  1. 5/20/00         8/5/00     11/30/01
km 155+500 - km 164+000                                                                                        2. 7/03/00
3. 7/1500
4. 7/30/00
Road M-2 Yerevan-Goris-lran Border,
3     Overlay and Leveling Course             CW    None              1,030        ICB    GPN 03/30/00   0428/200  1. 5/20/00          8/5/00     11/30/01
km 371 - km 383                                                                                                2. 7/03/00
3. 7/15/00
__  _ __ _ __ _ __  _ _ __ _ __ _ _                                                                  _ _ 1__   4. 7/30/00     _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Road M-3 Margara-Vanadzor-Tashir-
Georgia Border, Overlay and Leveling
4     Course and reconstruction               CW    None               i00         ICB     GPN 03/30/00    5/15/00   1.5/30100        8/20/00     11/30/01
km 130+740-km 134+404 and                                                                                      2. 7/15/00
km 136+960-km 138                                                                                              3. 7/30/00
4. 8/15/00
Road M-7 Spitak-Giumri-Turkish Border,
5     Overlay and Leveling Course             CW    2 slices          1,750        ICB    GPN 03/30/00    5/15/00   1. 530/00         8/20/00     11/30/01
km 21+235-km 27+995                                                                                            2. 7/15/00
km 31+883 - km 41+213                                                                                          3.7/30100
_______________________________                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. 8/15/00
Road M-2 Yerevan-Megri-lran border
6     and Road M-12 Goris-Kashatah            CW    2 slices          1,240        ICe    GPN 03/30/00    5/15/00   1. 530/00         8/20/00     11/30/01
Leveling course,Reconstr. and Overlay                                                                          2. 7/15/00
km 0+000-km 9+600 and                                                                                          3. 7/30/00
km 238+330-km 239+140
Road M-4 Yerevan-Sevan-ldjevan,
7     Surface Dressing                        CW    2 slices          1,800        ICB    GPN 03/30/00    5/15/00   1.8/17/00         8/28/00     11/30/01
Leveling course and Overlay                                                                                    2. 8/3/00
3. 8/13/00
4. 8123/00
9,030
Goods Road Safety                        G    None              500          [CB    GPN 03/30/00    11/1S/00  1.12115100        3/20101     11/30/01
8     (Traffic control equipment                                                                                     2.1/30/01
signals, marking equipment and marking
etc.)                                                                                                          3. 2/15/01
4. 3/10/01  
Goods ARD (Computers and office
9     equipment.)                              G    None               45         OTHER   GPN 03/30/00    7/15/00   1. 7/15/00        9/15/00     11/18/00
(NS                               2. 8/18/00
3. 8/30/00
_____ __   _ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____ _   __ ____   ____ ___   _ ____ ____ _____ ___   _____ ____ _____ ___   .8/10 00  _4.__9u10/00__
Sub-Total        545            4_9_0                                       _00
- 51 -



10    Road Network Survey                       SC    None               40         QCBS   GPN 03/30100   530/200   1.5130/00            815100      10/20100
2.6130100
3.7/15100
4.7/30100      ____       _____
11     Roads Design for year 2001 works         SC    None               60         QCBS   GPN 03/30/00   530/200   1.5/30/00            8/5o00      10/20/00
2.6/30/00
(Acbvities 16 - 20)                                                                                              3.711 5100
__________                  ~~~~~4-7/30I00
Bndges Survey and Design for year 2001
12    works                                     SC    None              175         QCBS   GPN 03/30/00    5/30/200   1.5/30/00           8/5/00       12/5/00
2.6/30/00
(AcOvities 21 22)                                                                                                3.7/15/00
1                  1                                      1                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.7/30/00
13    ARD Technical Support and Training        SC    None              100         QCBS   GPN 03/30/00    6/20/00   1. 6/30/00          9/15/00      11/25/01
2.8/15/00
3. 8/30/00
4. 9/05/00     ____       _____
14     Road Safety Tech, Assist.                SC    None              340         QCBS   GPN 03/30/00    6/20/00   1. 7/0500           9/30/00      12115/02
2.68/15/00
3. 8/30/00
____________________________________   ________                          __________  ~~~~~4. 9/15/00           _  _ _ _ _
15     Road Works Supervision                   SC    None              170         QCBS   GPN 03/30/00        6/5/00   1. 6/05/00        8/5/00     12/15/01
(Activities 1 - 7)                                                                                               3. 7/20/00
4. 7/30/00    _
Sub total                                                        gS11
16    Contract for OadrSay                     cW    3 slices          2,300          ICB    GPN 01/01/01      1/30/01   1. 1/3/01       3001         11/30/02
2.2/101/01
3. 312/001
4. 3/30/01
19     ContractiforRoarfafaDessin               OW    2Nslies           1,17          lOB    GPN 01/01/01      31/3/01    1.3/301/01     5/15/01      11/30/02
17    Contract for Road Safety                 CW    None               500          NCB    GPN C1/01/0 1    1130/01   1. 1130/o01       3/30101      11/30/02
2.3/150/01
3.4/250/01
___________               4.5/20/01             .
20     Reconstruct/on                           CW    None              610          NCB      GPN 01/01/01     3/1/01    1. 3/01/01      5/15/01      11/30/02
2.4/150110
3. 4/25/01
21     Bndges Repair                            CW    4 slices          1,500         ICB    GPN 01/01/01    3/10/01   1. 3/10/01         6/5/01      11/30/02
2. 4/25/0 1
3.42055/01
_____________                          ~~~~~~~~~4. 5/25/01        _  _ _ _ _
22     Bridge Repair                            CW    2 slices          700          ICB      GPN 01/01/01    3/1501   1. 3/01/01         6/10/01     11/30/02
2. 4/30/01
3. 4/20/01
4. 5/30/01
23     Goods Road Sfety Gqs None                                        7           50  lOB  GPN 01/01/01    2/10/01   1. 2/10/01        4/35/01     15/30/02
2. 3/30/01
3.411/0510
____________   ____ ____   ____________4.   4/20/01    _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
24     Goodse ARD,paipr er                      CW    Nonces             500        OTHE    GPN 01/01/01    230/2001   1.23/30/01         4/25/01     10/30/01
(NS)                              2. 4/30/01
3. 4/10/01
________                    _________   ___________    _________                             ~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~4.45/20/01   _ _ _
)NS)                     ~~~~~~~~2. 3/30/01
3. 4/10/01
Sub-Total        835 -
- 52 -



26      Road Safety Technical Assistance              SC     None                100            Co       GPN 01/01/01      2/25/01    1.2/25/01           4/20/01      12/20/01
2. 3/30/01
3. 4/10/01
4. 4/15/01
27     ARD Technical Support and Training             SC     None                100           QCBS    GPN 01/01/01         1/15/01    1. 1/15/01         4/15/01      12/27/01
2. 2/230/01
3. 3/15/01
4. 3/30101
28      Road Survey and Design. BOdge Design          SC     None                190           QCBS    GPN 01 t  i01        4120101   1.4/20t01          5s30i10         211 0102
for the year 2002                                                                                                             2. 5/05/01
(Activities 30 -34)                                                                                                           34 55/01
29      Road and Bn dge Supervision                   SC     None                175           QCBS    GPN 01/01/01         1/15/01   1. 1/15/01          3/30/01      11/30/03
(Activities 16 - 22)                                                                                                          23 2.30/01
4. 3/15/01
Sk*bTotal          SOS
_  _ kotat vear 200t                                                    111 .   - ..-4,63/02
30     Contract for Road Safety                      CW      None                500           NCB       GPN 01/01/02       1/30/02    1.1130/02          3/30/02      11/30/03
2. 3/01/02
3. 3/10/02
_________                                     ____________                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. 3/20/02
31      Contract for Road Safety                     CW      None                Soo           NC3 B      PN ~01/01/02      1/30/02    1. 1/30/02         3/30/02      11/30/03
32      Overlay                                      OW      3 slices           2,050           lOCB     G PN 01/01/02      1/15/02    1. 1/2 0/02         4/5/02      11/3 0/03
2. 3/05/02
3. 3/20/02
33      Bridge Repair                                 OW     6 atices           1,500           ICB      GPN 01/01/02       3/10/01    1. 3/10/02          6/5/02      11/30/03
2 4./25/02
34      Overlay                                      CW      3 slices           1,954           ICB      GPN 01/01/02       1/15/02   1. 1/20/02           4/5/02      11/30/03
2. 3/05/02
3. 3/20/02
_________________________________   _________                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~4. 3/30/02   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
________                                         ~~~~~~Sub-Total    6,504                                                                              _ _ _ _ _
35     Goods, Road SafetybG                                     None             500            ICB      GPN 01/01/02       3/15/02    1.2/15/02          4/30/02      11/30/02
2. 3/30/02
3.4/150/02
_________________________________   _________                                                 ~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~4.   4/2 0/02   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
36      GoovsARO Compater Equipment                   G      None                 50          OTHER    GPN 01/01/02         4/15/02    1. 4/15/102        630/02       11/15/02
(NS                                   2. 5/30/02
3. 6/10/02
_________ ________ _________ ________ _____   ___ ___   ____ ____   ____ _______   _____ _   4. 64 /20/02
Sub-Total          So5
-53 -



Roads Survey and Oesign for the year
37      2003                                             SC     None                 125            QCBS    GPN 01101/02          4110102    1.4/01/02            6/15/02          3/1/03
(Activities 41 - 42)                                                                                                                 2. 5/15102
3. 5/30/0
_______               _________                     __________    ~~~~~~~~4. 6/05/02   _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _
38      Road Safety Tech, Assist.                        SC     None                  60            Other,    GPN 01/01/02        2/10/02    1. 2/10/02           4/10/02       10110702
Individuals                                 2. 3/10/02
3. 3/1 5/02
___________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~4. 4/30/02
39      ARD Technical Support and Training               SC     None                  55            QCBS    GPN 01/01102           4/1/02    1. 4/01/02           6/25/02       10/15/02
2. 6/01/02
3. 6/15/02
_________   _________________________________   _________                                                    ~~~~~~~ ~~~4. 6/20/02          _ _  _ _ _
40      Roads and Bridge Supervision                     SC     2 Slices             170            QCBS    GPN 01/01/02           2/1/02     1. 2/1502           4/30/02       11/30103
2. 3/15/02
(Activities 30 -34)                                                                                                                  3. 4/101/02
_________                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. 4/15/02  _____
_______                                                e3r2002010      7      11 uil:lgilS E i:iCilhgi tHi SutbTotal  410
____TotM veBr 202                                                                  7~464
41      Contract for Road Safety                        CW       None                 500            NOB      GPN1/01/03           1/30/03    1. 1/30/03          3  0/03        10/15/0
2. 3/01/03
3. 3/10/03
_______                                                        4. 3/20/03        _______     _______4_0
42      overlay                                         CW      6 slices            2,884            ICB      GPN 1/01/03          1/15/03    1 .1/20/03           4/5/03       1 1/30104
2. 3/05103
3. 3120/03
_4. 3/30/03
3,384         _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       _ _   _ _
43      Goods, Road Safety                                G      None                250             ICS       GPN 01/01/02       2/15/02    1. 2/15/02           4/30/02       11/30/02
2.3130/02
3. 4/10/02
__________   _____________   __________                  ~4. 4/20/02       _  _ _ _     _  _ _ _  _
44      Goods ARD Offce Equipment                        G      None                  20           OTHER    GPN 1/01/03           6/15/03    1. 6/15/03       |   8/30/03       12/15/03
(NS                                     2.7/30/03
_________ _________ ________ _________ ____   ___ _____          ___  _____     __ ________                    .   8/20/0       _____4_       _8_20_03
Sub-Total           270                                                     _3 8_ _5_03
45      Road and Bridge Design for the year 2004         SC     None                   5             co       GPN 1/01/03          3/1/03    1. 3/01/03           5/15/03          3/1/04
2. 4/15/03
(Activites tbd)                                                                                                                      3.4/30/03
4. 5/05/03                    ______
46      Road Works Supervision                           SC     None                  70            QCBS    GPN 1/01/03           1/30/03    1. 1/30/03           3/30/03       11/30/04
2. 3/01/03
(Activities 41, 42)                                                                                                                  3. 3/10/03
4. 3/20/03                     _____
47      ARD Technical Support and Training               SC    |None          |       85             Co       GPN 1/01/03          4/1/03    1.41/03              6/15/03       11/15/03
. 5/14J5/03
3. 5/25/03
4. 6/05/03
Sub-Total            246
48  Operational cost ot AR                                                       400
Grand Total        30,900
-54-



Repair of Tracks from Yerevan to the
49     Georgian Border                              CW      None               200           NBF      GPN 03/30100       1012/00   1. 10102100        1/15/01        9/30/02
2. 12101100
3. 12/15/00
__________                     ___________                                ____________                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. 12/30/00  _ _ _ _ _
Continuation of Construcbton of
50     Locomotive anrd Wagon Depot                  CW      None                60           NBF      GPN 03/30100       5130/00   1. 05130100        8115100        11/1102
2. 07/27/00
3. 0805100
__________  ____________                             ~~~~~~~4. 08110/00           _   _ _ _ _
51     Repair of Rolling Stock NBDK                 CW      None                90           NBF      GPN 03/30/00       5/30/00   1. 05/30/00        8/30/00        11/1/02
2. 07/25/00
3. 08/15/00
4. 08/20/00                _____
Repair of PIU Office and other Services
52     RO.OS                                        CW      None                90            NBF    GPN 03130/00        5130/00   1. 0530/00         8/15100       11130/02
2. 07/15/00
3. 07/30/00
____________         ~~4. 08/05/00                _  _ _ _ _
53     Repair of Rolling Stock CR                   CW      None               800            NBF     GPN 03130100       1012100   1. 10/02100        1115/01         611102
2. 12/06/00
3. 12120/00
4. 12/30/00                  _____
Rehabilitation and Improvement of
Telecommunications (42 km of cable. 8
54     control panels, and other equip.)            CW      None                80            NBF      GPN 03/30/00      12/1/00   1.12/01/00          3/1/01        12/1/01
2. 01/15/01
3.02/01/01
4. 02.15.01                  _____
Energy Supply (contact wire and
55     Installation of Substations)                 CW      None                80            NBF     GPN 03/30/00    12115/00   1. 12/15/00           4/1/01        12/1/01
2. 02/15/01
3. 03/01/01
L = ______   =4. 03/15/01
I ______________________________                   Sub-Total          1.400     1
Supplies for repair of tracks
56     Contract TE - 1 RPFB                          G      None              2,630           ICS     GPN  03130100      613100    1.06103100         8115100        2115102
Rails 4,700 ton                                                                                                             2. 07118100
Fish Plates 1,150 ton                                                                                                       3. 07/31/00
Bearing Plates 140 ton                                                                                                      4. 08/05/00
Bridge structures 9
Supplies for repair of tracks
57     Contract TE-2C                                G      None              1,200           ICB     GPN 03/30/00        6/4/00    1. 06/04100       8/15100        2115/02
Concrete sleepers, 74,000 units                                                                                             2. 07/19100
3. 07/31/00
4. 08/05/00
Supplies for repair of tracks
58     Contract TE- 3 BSW                            G      None               1,100          ICB      GPN 03/30/00       6/5100    1.08/05100        8/20/00        2/15102
Bolts 7.5 ton                                                                                                               2. 07121/00
Screws 2 ton                                                                                                                3. 07/05100
Washers I ton                                                                                                               4. 08110/00
Equipment for Continuation of
Construction of Locomotive and Wagon
59     Depot                                        CW      None              1,200           ICB     GPN 03/30/00       5/30/00   1.05130/00         8/15100        1211/01
2. 07127100
3. 08/05100
______ ___   _ ______ _____ ______ _____ _____ ______   ____ _____   _____ _____   _____ __   __ ______ _   4.0 /10100_____            _____
-55-



60     Office Equipment for ARC                  G     None              45           NS      GPN 03130100    71301tt    1 07/30/00       9/30/00      1111/00
Contract CE.TRPA-C&T                                                                                             2. 08/24/00
Computer equipment                                                                                               3. 09110100
4. 09/25/00
61     Office Equipment for ARC                  G     None              40           NS      GPN 03130/00    7/30/00   1.07130/00        9/30/00      11/1/00
Contract CE.TRPA-EQUIP                                                                                           2. 08/24/00
Xerox, phones, cameras                                                                                           3. 09/10/00
...____________________________   _______   _________           __________               4.  09/25/00
62     Office repair ARC                         G     None              50           NCB    GPN 03/30/00    5/30/00   1.o30o00           8/24/00      1111100
Contract CETRPA-REP                                                                                              2. 07/24/00
Off/ce repair                                                                                                    3. 08/10/00
63  Offire furniture~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4. 08/15/00 
83     Office furniture                          G     None              30           NS      GPN 03/30100    6/30/00   1.06130/00        9/24/00      11/1/00
Contract CE.TRPA-REP+FUR                                                                                         2. 08324/00
Office furniture                                                                                                 3. 09/10/00
_____________________________    ________   1                                                     4. 09/15/00               _   _ _  _
64     Equipment forARC                          G     None              50           NS      GPN 03130/00    6130/00   1.06/30/00        9/24/        11/1/00
Contract CE.TRPA-TRANS                                                                                           2. 08/24/00
Vehides for ARC                                                                                                  3. 09/10100
_1 .                                    4.09/15100
Energy Supply (contact in/re and
65     substations)                              G     None             800           ICB    GPN 03/30/00    6/15'00   1.06/15/00         8/25/00       4/1/01
Contact wire 150 km                                                                                              2. 07/26/00
3. 08/10/00
_______________________________                            __________               ~~~~ ~~~~~~~4. 08/15/00   _ _ _
66     Supplies for repair of tracks             G     None             240           ICB    GPN 03/30/00    S0/00   1.05/30/00           8/15/01      9130102
Ballast 25,000 ton                                                                                               2. 07/15/00
3. 07130/00
_____________________________   ______   ________                                   ~~~~~~~~~~4. 08/05100
67     Supplies for repair of rolling stock      G     None             2,000         ]CB    GPN 03/30/00    5/30/00   1.05130/00         8/16/00      3/15/01
Contract SP.RM                                                                                                   2 07/1/100
Spares for repairng locomofves,
passenger wagons, freight wagons,
generatos, spare parts for two depots                                                                            3. 07/30/00
4. 08/05/00
Computer, communicafon and data
processing equipment for the Armenia
68     Railway System                            G     Several Item      280          ICB    GPN 03/30/00    6/15/00   1. 6/15/00         10/1/00       2/1/01
Contrat CE                                                                                                       2. 8/18/00
Cormputers 90                                                                                                    3. 9/03100
,Servers                                                                                                         1 4. 9/15/00
Communicabon and office equipment for
69    the Armenia Railway System                                         50           NS      GPN 03/30/00    6/15/00   1.6/15/00          9/1/00       2/1/01
Xerox 4                                                                                                          2. 7/18/00
Fax 3                                                                                                            3. 8/03/00
Phones 8, Other.                         _                                                                       4. 815/00
Sub-Total        9,715
Technical Support in designing
management system for the Armenia
70     Railway                                  SC    None               100         QCBS   GPN 03/30Oo    8/15/00   1.6/15/00            10/1/00      11/1/01
Contract DTT                                                                                                     2. 8/21/00
3. 9105/00
__ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ __                                                _  __ _ _               4. 9/15/00
SW & HW (This contract is associated with                                                                                          _
71    the one above).                           SC    None              170          QCBS   GPN 03/30/00    6/20/00   1. 820/00           10/1/00      11/1/01
2. 8/25/00
3. 9/10/00
______ __   __ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _____ _____ __I_ K__  4. /15/0
72     ARC Technical Support and Training       SC    None               30           CQ
73     ARC Technical Support and Training       SC    None               300          NBF
___,_,,___,                        Sub-Toltal        600
Total year2000                              .                   11,711
- 56 -



enb ttn and irmprovement of,,gi,,,jj
74    telecommunications                          G     None             s8o            IC'     GPN 01101101    6115S01   1.06115/01        9110/1         311102
Contract C.S.TI                                                                                                     2.08115/01
Cable 170 km                                                                                                        3. 08/30101
Distributing stations 8                                                                                             4. 09/05/01
Telephone stations
Telephone sets 124
3Batteries 1900
75     Supplies for repair of rolling stock       G     None             2,000          IC$     GPN o 01/01/01   5/30/01   1. 05/30/01       8/16/01      3/15/02
Contract SP.RM                                                                                                      2. 07115101
Spares for 20 locomotives, 10 passenger
wagons, 40 cargo wagons, 40 generators,
110 engines, proprietary parts for two
depots                                                                                                              3. 07130101
__________                 __________             _    _________ 4. 08105/01
76     Office Equipment forARC                    G     None               45           NS      GPN 01/01/01    5/30/01   1.05130/01         8/24/01      11/1/11
Contract CE.TRPA-C&T                                                                                                2. 07/24101
Computer equipment                                                                                                  3. 08110/01
_________                                ____________                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4. 08/15/01
77     Office Equipment for ARC                   G     None               20           NS      GPN 01(01(01     5/30101   1.05130S01        8124(01      1111/01
Contract CE.TRPA-EQUIP                                                                                              2. 07124101
Xerox, phones, cameras                                                                                             34 0831tt/0t
3. 08/10/01
78     Equipment for ARC                          3    None                20           NS      G PN 01/01/01    530/0 1   1.05/30/01        8/24/01      11/1101
Contract CE.TRPA-TRANS                                                                                              2. 07/24/01
Vehiclesfor ARC                                                                                                    43. 08/10/01
_______________   ____________________-_____I_4. 08/15(01
Total vear 2001                            _                              .. 
79     Supplies for repair of rolling Stock               om              fi00          ICE     GPN 0101102    530102   1. 0S130102          8(16102      3115/01
Contract SP.RM                                                                                                      2, 07/15/02
Spares for 20 locomotives, 10 passenger
wagons, 40 cargo wagons, 40 generators,
110 engines, proprietary parts for two
depots                                                                                                              3. 07/30/02
4. 08/05/02
Toteayawr2002                                                     600
Total          _15,200
SUPPORT FOR TiiE MIINISTRY OF
80            TORT. M6  20                              None               soO0E                GP  03301         /000 St3 r . 05/30/00     8(15/0        I101/00
80ffce Equipment                                                ttT Et2 ,,Nn e5  10O  1S0 i1
(NS)                               2. 07/15100
3. 07/30/00
_  _S                                                  24. 0805100
81     Computers                               -G       None               50         OTHER   GPN 03130100    5/30100   1. 05/30/00          8/15/00      1011100
(NS)                               2. 07115/00
3. 07/30/00
_   _____    _______                                        _J4. 08105/00                            _
Sub-Total         100                                 __         __
82     Urban Transport Study                                              300          QCBS   GPN 03/30100    5130/00   1. 05/30/00         M8(20(0        9/1101
SC                                                                        2. 07/20/00
3. 08/05/00
_________  4. 08/10(00
83     Urban Transport Study                     SC    None               100           Co      GPN 03/30100    5/30/01   1.05/30101         8/15/01      11/1/01
2. 07/15/01
3. 07/30/01
4. 08/05/01
84     Technical Services and Training           SC    None               180         QCBS   GPN 03130/00    5/30100   1.05130100            8T15/00       9/1/01
2. 07/15/00
3. 07/30/00
__________   ________4. 08(05/00   ____
85     Technical Services and Training           SC    None                20          Other, s[PN 03/30/00    5130/01  j1.05/30/01    j81/15/011    12/15/01
Individuals                           2. 07/15/01
3. 07/30/01
4. 08/05/01
Sub-Total         600
86     Suport for the Central PIU                                         200
Total             900
Protect Grandt Total                                              7,00
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 57 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
.li                                   mot i US$mii    0ai                       Perc        l
I-A, Goods, for Parts A and C of the        2.00            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
Project                                                     local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of expenditures of other items
procured locally
1-B, Goods, for Part B of the Project       10.70           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of expenditures of other items
procured locally
2-A, Works, for Part A of the Project       19.23                          85%
3-A, Consultants' services and training,     2.09                         100%
for Parts A and C of the Project
3-B, Consultants' services and               0.26                         100%
training, for Part B of the Project
4-A, Incremental cost of the PIU             0.17                          100%
4-B, Incremental cost of the AR              0.35           100% of expenditures incurred prior to
January 1, 2002; 80% of expenditures
incurred prior to January 1, 2003; 60%
of expenditures incurred prior to January
1, 2004 and 40% of expenditures
incurred thereafter
5, Unallocated                               5.20
Total Project Costs                         40.00
Total                                       40.00
Financial Management System:
Summary of Assessment:
The primary objective of the assessment carried out during appraisal in November 1999, was to determine
whether the project has in place adequate financial management systems for project implementation and
credit disbursements as required under OP/BP 10.02.
At the time of appraisal (Nov.'99), many of the necessary elements for an acceptable financial management
system, such as presence of PIU staff (specifically accountant), identification of auditors, selection of
accounting software, agreement on Project Management Report formats, and confirmation on the physical
location of the PIU were not yet in place.
Since appraisal, however, improvements have been made on many fronts , including: (i an Accountant has
been selected after vacancy was published in local newspapers. The Bank has received a copy of the CV
- 58 -



and approved it; (ii) confirmation was also received for the location of the PIU to be within MOTC; (iii)
arrangements are under way for the accountant to be trained; the accountant selected is qualified but needs
further training specifically in Bank disbursement procedures and Project Management Reporting aspects;
(v) on March 8th, 2000, a PHRD grant was ratified by the National Assembly, thus making funds available
immediately to proceed with hiring of a financial consultant, the purchase of accounting software as well as
all necessary equipment. Description of various software packages have already been provided to the
MOTC and will be shared with the consultant when once on board.
Audit arrangements:
During negotiations it was agreed that the Borrower will appoint an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank for project accounts as well as annual financial statements of the Armenia Roads (AR) and Armenia
Railway Corporation (ARC) accounts. The annual audits will be carried out in accordance with acceptable
intemational standards and Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting as outlined in The World
Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management
Manual (exposure draft). The audit report shall be in a format in accordance with the Intemational
Standards on Auditing promulgated by the Intemational Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and with Bank
guidelines. The audit report for the project will include separate opinions for the project financial
statements, the Special Account, SOEs and the PMRs against which disbursements have been made or are
due to be made from the Credit. The Borrower will submit to the Bank audited financial statements and the
audit report within six months following the fiscal year-end.
A short list of the auditors was presented to IDA and found acceptable. Auditors will be appointed by
November 30, 2000. The PIU should move expeditiously in sending Letters of Invitation to prospective
auditors. IDA will also review the audit arrangements of AR and ARD to determine acceptability to IDA.
Disbursement arrangements:
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made on the basis of traditional
disbursement procedures. Applications for withdrawal from the Credit will be used to request: (i) direct
payment to third party for amount due; (ii) replenishment to the Special Account; (iii) reimbursement of
payments already made by the Borrower for eligible expenditures; and (iv) application for Special
Commitment. Supporting documents for expenditures financed on the basis of SOEs will be retained by
PIU for at least one year after disbursements and made available for review by IDA representatives and
extemal auditors.
Disbursements will be made against SOEs for: (a) works contracts below US$600,000; (b) goods contracts
below US$100,000; and (c) services for contracts for (i) individuals below US$50,000 and (ii) firms below
US$100,000 equivalent. Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be
made against normal documentation. Supporting documents for expenditures financed on the basis of
SOEs will be retained by MOTC for at least one year after disbursements and made available for review by
IDA representatives and extemal auditors.
PMR - based disbursements: It is expected that sample PMR will be presented to IDA starting with the
accounting period ending December 31, 2000. A complete set of PMRs will be submitted by June 30th,
2001, each of which would include: (i) a financial report summarizing sources of project financing and
project expenditures, disbursement, and forecast project expenditures; (ii) a reconciliation of the Special
Account; (iii) a project progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project progress; and
(iv) a procurement management report on status of procurement and contract management. During such
- 59 -



time the PIU will use the traditional disbursement method. However, the PIU is encouraged to produce
PMRs during this initial period on a parallel basis, not for disbursement purposes but for gaining
experience. Once the PIU has gained experience with the reporting system (under PMRs), with agreement
of the Borrower, the Project would move to PMR-based disbursements. Once converted (expected to be by
June 30, 2001), the PIU will be responsible for preparing quarterly PMRs acceptable to IDA.
Readiness for Implementation and Risks:
Steps are being taken to ensure that PIU staff are hired and a satisfactory financial management system is
in place before the start of the project. An Action Plan to remedy existing shortcomings will be
implemented by June 30th, 2001.
Action                                                 Responsibility   Dated
a Recruitment of Accountant                               PIU              By April 15, 2000
b  Recruitment of key PIU staff (Director, Procurement Specialist)  PIU    By April 15, 2000
c  Recruit financial management consultant to assist PIU  PIU              By April 15, 2000
Purchase Accounting Software capable of producing PMRs
d acceptable to IDA                                       PIU              By April 30, 2000
Visit by IDA staff to confirm adequacy of financial management
e arrangements                                            IDA              Prior to Board
f Prepare a short list of auditors acceptable to IDA      PIU              By April 15, 2000
g Preparation of Draft Financial Management Manual        PIU/IDA          By Board Presentation
h  Accounting software fully tested and operational       PIU              By Board Presentation
i Commence Financial Management training for PIU Accountant  PIU/IDA       By July 31, 2000
j  Submission of Financial Management Manual               PIU             Within three months
after Effectiveness
k  Production of sample PMR                               PIU              By Dec. 31, 2000
1 Appointment of auditors                                 PIU              By Effectiveness
m  Preparation of first PMR to be submitted to IDA        PIU              By June 30, 2001
- 60 -



Table D
Armenia Transport Project
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
Assess                                           Risk
ment                                          Assessme
Item Assessed         _ _    S             Major Weaknesses                               Actions                  Proposed
N P F a                                         L A H             Proposed               Completion Date
u oa t                                          01 vi
I r r 1                                        w e. g
I r rs                                               h
f
(a) Legal Aspects     _    X _ Procurement activity and legislation in   X    To continue influencing        Throughout the Project.
Armenia is in an incipient stage and is       development of the pTocurement
promoted by implementation of the IFI         activity and legislation through
financed projects. There is not a             implementation of IFI financed
comprehensive set of procurement and          projects. A CPAR canried out by
anticorruption legislation.                   the World Bank will help in
achieving this goal.
(i)     Laws   &            X                                            X
Regulations           _         I
(ii)    NCB                 X    Practice of competitive bidding is         X
Procedures                      introduced in Armenia through IFI financed
projects. No prior regulations in this field
existed. Procedures established in the Loan
Agreement for procurement have been
followed.
(iii)    Intemal codes   X       There are not intemal codes or manuals     X A)   AR to define and document May 30, 2000
and manuals                     regulating procurement activity at Ministry   its procurement activity in
of Transport (MoT), Armenian Roads(AR),       accordance with the procurement
Armenian Railway Corporation (ARC).           procedures of the WB and the
With the exception of AR these agencies       provisions of local legislation in
have limited procurement activity and         that pars that the latest does not
experience. All the mentioned agencies use    contradict the loan agreement.
the common regulations of the Law on
Public Procurement.
(b)      Proc.  Cycle _ _ X _                                          _ _  _
Mgmt.                 I_      I I                                     I I I I                                I
(i) General handling        X                                            X  
(ii)      Procurement      X    MoT and ARC are not familiar with the     X A. Procurement plan for the first year  A.Procurement plan
planning                        procurement planning procedures under        of the project and General       ready at the time of
WB financed projects                        Procurement Notice ready as a    negotiations
prerequisite for Board approval, then
yearly update of both documents.
B. The PIU of the Armenia Road
Administration to assist the Project
Management Unit of the Armenia
MoT and the Coordinating Units ofthe B.Throughout the
rest of participating entities in  Project.
implementing the project and the
specific procurement under the rules of
___________________ __    ______________________________ __  I I  the World Bank
- 61 -



(iii)   Preparation of     X    AR has good experience in preparing       X A. AR PIU to assist Mot, and ARC in  A. As part of the Project
documents                       procurement related documentation, but       preparation of procurement       launch workshop.
this experience is absent in MoT and ARC    documentation.
B. Training on procurement for
generalist (Goods and Works, and
Consultants) to be organized for the
top management and procurement
staff.
(iv)    Management         X    AR and its PIU have demonstrated good     X Assistance to MoT, and ARC required Throughout the Project.
of process                      management of the Armenia Highway           from the AR PIU in transferring its
Project, however performance of other       project management experience.
entities involved in Armenia Transport      Close supervision from the
Project is not well known.                  procurement specialist in Bank's
country office and by supervision
missions
(v)     Bid evaluation _      X                                      _ X _
(vi)     Contract     _ _    X                                          x
Iaward
(vii)    Preparation   _       X                                     _ X  _
and signing of contracts  _                   ____                          __.
- 62 -



(viii)         Contract     X   Valid trend to save funds on consulting  _ _ X A)        Terms of Reference for     a. Throughout the
nmanagement                      contracts, if overstressed, may lead to lower  contract supervision to be reviewed in   Project.
quality in supervision of specialized works    detail and approved by the Bank
and limited transfer of knowledge and          B)       Training on intemational
technology                                     contract (Smaller and Larger Works)
management
to be provided to the PIUs in
coordination with the Bank
B) No later than the
commencement of the
first work contract
(c)      Organization       X                                              X
and Functions
(i)      Organization of    X   PMU, PIU and Coordinating Units of the     X    Based on the requirements of the World
unit and functions               entities involved in the project to be created.  Bank and the national regulations:
A)      Armenia MoT, AR, and
ARC  to define and document the     A. Before loan
status, structure and functions of their  effectiveness
respective Project Management Units,
including definition of procurement
activity.
B)       The PMU of the Ministry of
Transport in coordination with the Bank
to define and document the working
relationship among all the respective
Units created for carrying out project
implementation
B. Before loan
effectiveness
(ii)     Intemal            X   There are not intemal manuals and       _ - X The Heads of the respective project   Two months after loan
manuals and instructions         instructions on procurement                    management units to cause the unit to  effectiveness
have prepared its internal manuals and
instructions prepared based on Banks
requirements, local legislation and the
experience of implementing the
_________ __   __     __________________   _ _  _ _Armenia Highway Project
(d)      Support  and       X                                              X
Control Systems  ______________________________                        _  _       ___ ___63
- 63 -



(i)     Auditing       _ _   X                                      _ X _ To perform an independent procurement   To be completed
audit                                 before the mid-term
review
(ii)     Legal         _   X                                          X
assistance                 Xi_I
(iii)    Technical and     X    Technical and administrative controls  X    To establish the technical and administrative According to the action
administrative controls         have to be defined for the project and      controls required by LACI implementation   plan resulting from the
established by the PMU to be created. The  according to the recommendations of the    financial management
positive experience of the Armenia         Pre-appraisal mission                 assessment.
Highway Project will be useful.
(iv)     Code of ethics  X      Not existing                        _    X To approve and introduce a code of ethics for Two months after loan
all staff involved in procurement under the   effectiveness
project, based on WB experience and local
legislation. (If requested the Bank can assist). _
(v)      Anticorruption    XX
initiatives
(e)      Record        _ _    X                                     _ X _
keeping
(i)      Public notices       X                                       X
(ii)     Bidding       _ _    X                                     _ X   _
documents
(iii)    Bid   opening _       X                                    _ X _
information
(iv)     Bid evaluation _      X                                    _ X -
reports
(v)      Formal appeals   =    X           _                          X  _
and outcomes
(vi)     Signed contract _    X                                     - X _
documents
(vii)    Claims    and _       X                                .     X _
dispute resolution records
(viii)    Comprehensive |      X                                    _ X
disbursement data                                              __ _       _
-64 -



(f)      Staffing           X    AR has sufficient expenenced staff to    X    Adequate staffing of the PIU (see Before loan effectiveness
carry out the project, includitig             above)
procurement. Staff for the rest of
participating entities has to be appointed.
(g)      General      _ _     X                                           X
Procurement
Environment
(i)      Promoting   a      X
culture of accountability
(ii)     Reputation  of     X
procurement corps
(iii)    Salary           _ XX
structure
(iv)     Freedom  from      X                                             X
political interference
(v)      Existence   of     XX
experienced and capable
staff
(vi)     Clear  written     XX
standards and delegation
of authority
(vii)    Sound         _ _ X                                           _ X
budget/financial systems
(h)      Private            X                                             X
Sector Assessment
(i)      General            X                                             X
efficiency         and
predictability
(ii)     Transparency       X   I                                      = X
(iii)    Quality    of      x                                               _
contract mgmt.
(iv)     General      _       X =                                         X _
reputation                         __   _  __   _  __   _  _l_           l    _
- 65 -



Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                         Overall Risk Assessment
High ......X
Average
Low
Goods US$ 100,000 (equivalent)                Form prepared by:Jesus Renzoli / Anders Bonde
Works US$600,000(equivalent)                 (Procurement Specialist/Accredited staff assigned to
Works US$~Q~Q90(equivalent)       the project)
Consulting US$ 100,000 for firms and US$50.000
for individuals (equivalent)                  Signature:                 /
Post Review Ratio: One in  4   contracts      Date:
Frequency of procurement supervision missions
proposed: One every 5   months (includes
special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits)
Deeper study through a CPAR is required to determine more precisely the actions needed to improve the overall
procurement environment in the country, particularly the legal framework for the procurement activity. Currently
Directive 159 regulates various aspects of the procurement activity, but it is far from being comprehensive
legislation on procurement. The Government is willing to organize the procurement activity based on principles
of efficiency and transparency, and a Law on Public Procurement is in preparation.
Because the main procurement actions of Armenia Roads (AR) has been under the Armenia Highway
Project financed by IDA, the procurement procedures of the Bank were followed. Consequently, there is
good experience in dealing with World Bank programs at AR. Most of the procurement envisioned in the
Armenia Transport Project will be carried out by AR, and it will assist the PIU and ARD in procurement
matters.
The prior good performance of the AR PIU in the Armenia Highway Project and the arrangements made
for carrying out procurement under the Armenia Transport Project are the basis for assessing the capacity
of the MOTC, AR and ARD as adequate to carry out the project. However, the incipient development of
the procurement environment in the country as well as the lack of experience in implementing WB
financed projects on the part of MOTC and the ARD determine the procurement risk as "High".
At the time of the mid-term review, depending on performance of all participating entities in carrying out
procurement, upgrading the rating of the procurement risk to "Average" can be considered.
A Procurement Action Plan to address the aspects that can negatively affect procurement in the Armenia
Transport Project has been prepared.
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ARMENIA: Transport Project
Pi*h      ydu                                      Pshe                          cti
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       19                           19
First Bank mission (identification)             05/09/98                      05/09/98
Appraisal mission departure                      10/10/99                     10/10/99
Negotiations                                    03/27/2000                    03/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/15/2000
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
PHRD grants of $ 487,000 and US$ 395,300
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Anders Bonde                      Senior Highway Engineer
Robert Nooter                     Economist
Louis Stanley Thompson            Railway Specialist
Slobodan Mitric                   Urban Transport Specialist
Arusyak Alaverdyan                Financial Analyst, Yerevan
Jesus Renzoli                     Procurement Specialist
Bruce Johnson                     Bridge Engineer
Richard James                     Financial Analyst
Roberto Tarallo                   Financial Management Specialist
Damika Somasundaram               Team Assistant
Coral Bird                        Team Assistant
-67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ARMENIA: Transport Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan was completed in December 1999 and updated in March 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Republic of Armenia, Transport Sector Review                         May 30, 19997
Back to Office reports of Preparation, Pre-appraisal and Appraisal missions  May and
August 1998
February and
June 1999
Minutes / Summary of project concept Review Meeting                         November 5,
1998
Minutes / Summary of Decision Review Meeting                                October 1, 1999
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations                                              March 30, 2000
C. Other
DorProject Road Network Survey in Armenia and Four Year Investment Program Development, Volumes
1,2 and 3 dated January 1999, with addition dated March 12, 1999.
Ministry of Transport, Provisions on Main Road Maintenance 1999 - 2003, dated 1998
Report entitled "Project for Structural and Economic Reform to be Carried out at the Armenian Railways:
1998-2001"
Armenia Railway, World Bank Loan Project Assessment prepared by CanaRail, dated September 1999.
Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation of three bridges on Armenia Roads, GP ROSDORNII, 1999
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ARMENIA: Transport Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions            disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                        IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P035806        1998 Armenia                     AGRI. REFORM SUPPORT                                 0.00      14.50       0.00        8.04       3.20       0.00
P008281        1998 Armenia                     EDUCATION                                            0.00      15.00       0.00        9.03       0.91       0.00
P008276        1999 Armenia                     ELEC. TRANSM & DISTR                                 0.00      21.00       0.00      20.07        2.24       0.00
P008279        1997 Armenia                     ENTERPRISE DEVELOP.                                  0.00      16.75       0.00       4.36        3.96       0.00
P050140        1998 Armenia                     HEALTH                                               0.00      10.00       0.00        7.34       4.13       0.00
P035765        1996 Armenia                     HIGHWAY                                              0.00      31.00       0.00        1.84     -11.85       3.07
P064879        1999 Armenia                    IRRIGATION DAM SAFETY                                 0.00      26.60       0.00      26.49        1.29       0.00
P008277        1995 Armenia                    IRRIGATION REHAB.                                     0.00      43.00       0.00        6.77       8.65       3.78
P035805        1998 Armenia                     MUNICIPAL DEVELOP.                                   0.00      30.00       0.00      25.58        3.16       0.00
P051171        1999 Armenia                    SAC III                                               0.00      65.00       0.00        5.65       7.08       0.00
P051026        1998 Armenia                     SATAC II                                             0.00       5.00       0.00        2.99       3.08       0.00
P035768        1996 Armenia                    SOCIAL INVEST. FUND                                   0.00      12.00        0.00       0.49       0.79       0.00
P044387        1996 Armenia                     STRUCT. ADJUST. TA                                   0.00       3.80       0.00        1.21       1.43       0.00
P057560        1999 Armenia                     TiTLE REGISTRATION                                   0.00       8.00       0.00        7.33       1.55       0.00
Total:        0.00      301.65         0.00      127.19      29.62      6.85
- 69 -



ARMENIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Portfolio:         0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ARMENIA: Transport Project
Euorsoe &
POVERTY and SOCtAL                                               Central     Low.
Armenia       Asia  Income         Development diamond
1998.
Pritift    mitt-fi ar tmIOOI'eSf                          3 ts      473      3 S1:                   Life expectancy
GNP ror cranitA fAlas method, US$)                       4A0       7 tq1      5s7a
GttP (Atieps mothof, tIlSS bttitltnsl                     1             I 1  1 t44
Averace annual crowttl. 199248
LaborforceI%J)                                           A 2         i)        1        GNiP                'N",           Gross
Most recent estimate ttftf/t vow avaIlabl. t992-98f                                    per                              primar
Povertv f% of Dorodatien befow Iot5aO ,o y rfv Ike)                                     capita
tUrbannont ilation % of tot) ooooda*tt                    6f         Sit        31
Ii "Wranetamcvt t3ltr  IV"I'S                              75         S4        RI
infant nltattv foe, 1.000 tit births)                     1 5       23         69
Child msitntrltion t% of. chist rn Wunder 51                ..                                    Access to safe water
Access to nate water t odfotiuJtiOttJ                      85                   74
IllitAercV (% of 00ou/811onfae 1Oa$                         1         4         37
Gross orlmarv enrottment 1% of8schoci0f00 ooouation)      e7                   tOg               -Armenia
Ma                                                                11         113                   Low-income group
Female                                                             99        10Si
KEY ECO4NOtIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENtS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP ftSS biftlons                                      .             1.6        1.9
Grrss drimsticn mve"trant(GP                                        18 a       147
Exowrtt of oonds and servkces'GOP                                   20.3      19 1                      Trade
Grnensr  ttd%ti.c PAvyInsiGfP                                      .7- ;2    -1# 2
Grnss netinntl iavirnlG.flfP                                        -7 6      .12 9
(Ctjraent acsnolmt hAt*nre/GtP                    .is a                       -17 4                     /
Itott nAvtMnIlflP                           .                        o R       A        Domestic                      Investment
Total debtrGfoP                                   ..                49.0      43.5      Savings                        n       t
Yntr4t detet sri"itAstXri                                            5A  St    7 7
Present value otf dnhtiGOP                                          27.7
Present s vatetA of eht/snxMrt%                                     92 0
Indebtedness
19774B7  19S8-98      1997      1t98   1999-03
eaverao, annual orowifto
,nP                                             .77       3 1        77                               Armenia
GNP rwr ctanita                   -     .      11 5       A                      .                    Low-income orou.
fxoorls of oodxand Srevices              ;      2.3       17
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
1% of GDP)
Aariiltire                                       ..        ..       333       34.2      30
Indu%strv                                                           2fi.2     24 0      20
Manirfa.hirinn                                                    9fi 1               1o               _        _       0
Servires..                                                          40 5      41.7       0
Privrate c.nnsimntion                             ..               112.3     107 3     -20
General onve.rnment consrimotion                  ..                12.9      11.9 AGDI                               GDP
Imoorts of noods and services                     ..       ..      5.5       53.0
laveraae annual arowth)                     1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Acriculture                                       ..      1.6        0.5      21.3      s.
Indulstrv                                               .14.1 '      3 7      12 1     40
Manufacturina.    .13.1                                            3.3                300
Services                                          ..   -10.R         4.5         .     20       /        \
Private consumotion                               ..    .8.6         1.7               10
General onvernment consunmotion                   .      -2.1        44 4               o *
Gross domestir. investment                       ..   -11 9         24.3          .     ro           04   95   ss   97   98
Imnorts nf anods And rservices                    ..      7 7        2.3         .                    Exports    Ilmports
Gross national nrodiirt                           .      -9P9        8.
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-oroun averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
he incomnltee.
- 71 -



Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                           6,000
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..      13.8       8.7    4.000
Implicit GDP deflator                            ..       ..      17.3      11.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     o3
Current revenue                                  ..       ..      19.8      20.8               93   94   95   96   97   98
Current budget balance                           ..       ,.       -1.7      1.5                     GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..       ..      -5.9      -4.3
TRADE
(US$ milfions)                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                233       251      1,000
Gold, jewelry, and other precious stones       ..       ..       102
Machinery and mechanical                                          36                 750
Manufactures                                   ..       ..        19
Total imports (cif)                              ..       ..       793       802       soo
Food2725
Fuel and energy                                 .        ..      235
Capital goods                                                     34                            4
Exoort DriGc index (1995=100)                    ..                                              93   94 ..
ImDort orice index f1995=100)                    ..       .    .          .                    o Exports     * imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
IUS$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                      330       357       s
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       952       948
Resource balance                                 ..       ..      -22       -591       o
Net income                                                         13         7
Net current transfers                                              242       188
Current account balance                           .       ..      -257      -328
Financing items (net)                                             -257316    331
Changes in net reserves                          ..        ..       59        -3
Memo:
Reserves includino oold (USS millions)           ..       ..       255       298
Conversion rate (DEC locallUS$)                 ..        ..    490.6    504.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USS mitlionsi                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..       ..       798       820
IBRD                                           ..       ..        11        10                   G:45 A:10
IDA                                            ..       ..       254       293
Total debt service                               .         .        28        37
IBRD                                           .                   1         1        E268 9
IDA                                            .        ..         1         2
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                .         .        35
Official creditors                                                98        18
Private creditors                                                            0
Foreign direct investment                     ..        ..        51       221           D:70
Portfolio equity                               ..       ..         0         0                          C: 174
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..        ..       107       125    A -IBRD                        E -O ilateral
Disbursements                                           B.  - IDA                            0 - Other multilateral   F - Private
Disuremnts. 77  43   |C - IMF                 G - Short-term
Principal repayments                          ..        ..         0         0
Net flows                                      ..       .,        77        43
Interest payments                             ..        ..         2         2
Net transfers                                 ..        ..        76        41
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/22/99
- 72 -









IBRD 30837
I s >giANRADGEORGIA                       NTO
Al- d'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FRS N ORS  TPEZN
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P MAU ROADS  >   ,W                                             DUAL CARRIAEASL 
44                    45'                                       46'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                 4I8'
/               i rn
MINGECHAUR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIEDO
I sTb X t >, ,/,-ffi2 > kot ;Tv *To~~~~~~RSEu DSRICTOUDRE
R- A. .     . ~        kkd                                              AZRAIA                              TRAN         POR AZRBIJNJECTvn/
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ONANU - MEDO ZONE> "'' A
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DEER - SLAMICtTEPP  ZaON0E0304 Mb
Thjs mop w55 prnduced by the  Rsserw ir % < . e | | " | t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STEPE ON
MapDesignUnitofTheWorldBank   >   REPUBLIC  As                   w    \zzqjrrr5Bmv   i ie    >                     g    l   l   I    l    |~~~~~~~~~~FRES AN FOEST  STPPEZON
40 e bonare coosBEDROCKoe                                                   >>\?95 s                                       ;5 
-39' andanyaPherinfomaRionshoMvilolJ    ]   C  I n A i1  , /  ' ' |tW ' 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*- 8>   \  J      10  20  30   0   50   50Kibm   39O_~~~~~~~~~40
44-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-;   RIVERS-47                                                                          4
T U R K E Y                                                                                                                                                                             ARPMAI ROD200L1ARIGWAS



