Page  1
November
23, 1999
H.E. Levon Barkhudarian
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Yerevan, Republic of Armenia
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for the Transport Project
Grant No. TF 025795
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association
(the
Association) to indicate the Association
’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds
provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three hundred
ninety-five thousand three hundred U.S. Dollars (US$395,300) (the Grant) to the 
Republic of Armenia
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the
Association carry out the activities described in paragraph
1
of the Annex to this
Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Association of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you,
this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/
Judy O’Connor
Country Director for Armenia
Europe and Central Asia
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By
/s/
L.
Barkhudaryan
Minister of Finance of the Republic of Armenia
Date:
February 10, 2000
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Transport 
Project
(the Project), the main objective of which is to improve the reliability and 
reduce the cost of transport in Armenia in support of the country’s growth and 
development. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Railway Component (estimated to cost the equivalent of $183,800) - 
provision of consultants’ services to plan the organizational restructuring of the 
Armenia Railway Corporation
(ARC), including the design of new working procedures, 
financial systems to be adopted, and preparatory training in investment analysis, rate
setting methodology, and cost accounting procedures for railways; and prepare the
preliminary designs for the track improvements to be carried out under the civil works
Page  2
components
.
(b)
Metro Component (estimated to cost the equivalent of $57,300) - provision 
of consultants
’
services to review the materials specification for the procurement of
spare parts to repair the Metro’s electric cables and escalators
(c)
Trade Supporting Infrastructure and Services Component
(estimated to
cost the equivalent of $154,200) - provision of consultants’ services to support the 
Ministry of Transport in the: 
(i)
analysis of the existing situation in trade supporting activities 
and compare it with more advanced countries in this field;
(ii)
determining the needs of Armenia in terms of policy, legal and 
regulatory framework, infrastructure, institutions and
private
services to reach the level of more advanced
countries in trade
supporting activities and to progressively
align to EU practices;
(iii)
in partnership with other Ministries and private enterprises, 
define a strategy for trade supporting services and
infrastructure; and
(iv)
preparation of a draft action plan to implement above strategies 
and making the strategy and draft action plan public.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Association shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Association to the extent necessary to permit the
Association to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the
results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Association against any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Association as a result of claims against the
Association in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed not later than June 30, 2000, or such later 
date as the Association may establish by notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date). 
Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund
Activities after Association approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing
Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.
After the
Closing Date, the Association may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the
Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the
Association and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Association
after consultation with the Recipient, by the provisions of the Attachment to this
Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of the Republic of Armenia on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof)
in connection with the
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Association in writing to terminate 
the Activities.
Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Association
may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right
of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or
(b)
the right of the Recipient, or any
other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the
Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Republic of Armenia, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
The
Association may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: 
(a) the Association has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to 
withdraw its support to the Project; or
(b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request 
for the Association’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
Page  3
8.
The Association is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not 
have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.
The Recipient shall have no right
to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Association pursuant to this
Letter Agreement.
Attachment
Consultants' Services
Part A:
General
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the relevant 
provisions of the Guidelines for Consultants Employed by the Bank for Operational
Purposes
(Administrative Manual: Statement 15.00 dated July 1997), (b) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published  by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and (c) the 
following provisions of this Attachment.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for components
(a), (b) and (c) under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.1 
and
3.5
of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for components
(a), (b) and (c) under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
3.8
through
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services provided by experts for activities under paragraph
1.1 of the Annex 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs
5.1
through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
