Documen; of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/'- J      ' /          s
Report No. 4938a-PO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
April 24, 1984
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be rised by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar Year 1983                    March 1984
Currency Unit = Escudo (Esc.)             US$1 = Esc.135
US$1 = 110.78 Esc.              Esc.1 = US$0.0074
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2046 pounds
1 metric ton (MT) = 1,000 kilograms = 2,204 pounds
1 meter (m) = 1.0936 yards
1 square meter (m2) = 1.2 square yards
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BESCL     Banco Espirito Santo e Commercial de Lisboa
BFN       Banco de Fomento Nacional
BPA       Banco Portugues Atl.antico
BPSM      Banco Pinto Sotto hayor
BdP       Banco de Portugal
CGI)      Caixa Geral de Depositos
EEC       European Economic Community
EFTA      European Free Trade Association
IAPIEI    Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium Enterprise
ITC       Internal Trade Center
MFA       Multi-Fiber Agreement
MIE       Ministry of Industry and Energy
PFI       Participating Financial Institutions
SFP       Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa
Sill      System of Industrial Investment Incentives
SMI       Small and Medium Industry
SPI       Sociedade Portuguesa de Investimentos
TA        Technical Assistance
TC        Textile Committee
TI        Textile Institute
TRU       Textile Review Unit
FISCAL YEAR
Government: January 1 - December 31
PFIs: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICILL USE ONLY
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................................. .   .  1
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .....................................    .... .  2
A.  Characteristics and Structure .......................... .  ...  2
B.  Past Trends and Recent Performance ......................   ...  2
C.  Prospects and Priorities ................................. .   .  3
D.  Development Issues ................................. .  .......  3
E.  Industrial Policies .................................. .  .....  4
F.  Industrial Strategy ............................... .  ........  6
III. THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY                    .......... 8
A.  Introduction ...............................................      8
B.  Structure ..................................................  8
C.  Machine and Labor Productivity .............................      9
D.  Financial Performance .................. 10
E.  The Textile Market ......................................... 10
F.  Problems and Issues in Restructuring ......................  13
G.  Investment Requirements            ................ . 14
H. Priorities for Investment                    ..                   14
IV.  POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY .................. . 15
Az.  Policies ..................................................... 15
B.  Textile Development Plan ......................  ............ 17
V.  THE PROJECT           .................................. . ................ . 19
A.  Project Origin               ....              ........   .. 9. 1
B.  Project Objectives and Scope         ... .............. .. 20
C.  Coordination with Other Bank Operations   ................. 21
D.  Project Costs ... ......................................... . 22
E.  Project Components and Their Financing ..................... 22
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES ............ ...................... 24
A.  Background ............................................... .. 24
B.  The PFIs ..............................        .................. . 25
C.  The MIE/Textile Review Unit ..        .    ...... .......... *. 28
D.  The Bank of Portugal .................................... o. 28
E.  The MIE/Textile Institute .................................. 29
This report was prepared by L  Nguyen, A. Sandig, L  Zamani of the Industry
Department, and R. Ihonsary (Consultant).
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their off cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page
VII.  PROJECT MANAGEAENT          ............................................. 29
A.  Textile Restructuring Credit Line .......................... 29
B. Technical Assistance Component ........................... .. 36
C.  Training Component ............................ . .. . ........ 37
VIII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................ .................... 39
IX. AGREEMENTS ............................................ 40
ANNEXE:S
3-1  Textile Industry Production Balance ........   .................... 42
3-2 Production Imports, Exports, and Apparent Consumption of
Textiles, 1973-82   ................................... 43
3-3  Exports and Imports by Textile Products, 1982 .................. 44
3-4  Portugal's Utilization of EEC Textile Quotas ................... 45
3-5  Projections of Import, Export and Domestic Consumption of
Textiles, 1982-93 ............   ............................... . 46
6-1  Banking System:  Some Characteristics (as of end 1982) .... ..... 47
6-2 Banking System: Sectoral Credit Outstanding by Term at year
end, 1978-82 ................. ................................. 48
6-3 Caixa Geral de Depositos-Non performing Loans and Bad Debts at
year end, 1979-82 ... ..... ...       ................ 50
6-4  The Textile Institute and Textile Training Facilities    .......... 51
7-1 The Projected Commitment and Disbursement Schedule for the
Credit Line Component ..........    .............................. 53
7-2 Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Consulting Services to
the Textile Review Unit ...      ................................... 54
7-3  Draft Terms of Reference for the Textile Training Study ........ 56
7-4  List of Equipment for Textile Training ....    ..................... 58
MAP
Map of Portugal (IBRD No. 18048)



- iii -
DOC'JNENTS CONTAINED IN PROJECT FILE
1. Portugal - Policies for Industrial Restructuring, Report No. 3804-PO,
August 4, 1983.
2. Analysis of the Portuguese Textile Industries, statistical tables by
IND staff.
3. Study of Textile Industry in Portugal, Werner International, 1980.
4. Draft Textile Development Plan (1984-87), MIE, November 1983.
5. Review of Proposed Textile Incentives, Consultant, December 1983.
6. Sample of Textile Investment Projects in Portugal, Report by IND staff.
7. A Review of the PFIs Organization, Lending Portfolio and Loan
Performance, December 1983, Report of IND staff and consultant.
8. Checklist for Subproject Appraisal, WB staff.
9. Guidelines for Calculating Financial and Economic Rates of Return for
DFC Subprojects, Gary Hyde.
10. B-Subproject Summary Note.
11. Questionnaire for Financial and Technical Data of PFIs.



- iv -
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Portugal
Beneficiaries:        Textile enterprises
Amount:               US$34.7 million
Terms:                Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks.
Relending Terms:      Beneficiaries would receive credit with maturities not
to exceed 12 years, including a maximum of three years
grace, at floating interest rates equal to the
floating interest rate payable on local currency loans
with similar terms.
Project Description: The proposed project would assist the Government in
initiating its textile subsector development plan
through a program of policy improvements, and
technical and financial assistance. The credit line
would be channeled through participating financial
intermediaries to support investment and
rehabilitation programs of textile enterprises for
strengthening their productivity and competitiveness.
It also seeks to enhance the ongoing efforts at
strengthening appraisal and support capacities of
financial intermediaries and technical assistance
institutions by upgrading their textile expertise.
The project faces moderate risks associated with
possible slow utilization of the credit line and lower
than expected returns from the enterprise-specific
restructuring programs. Appropriate incentives have
been introduced to maint_in the interest of the
participating financial institutions and as well as
measures to strengthen the appraisal and support
capacities of the financial and technical institutions
serving the textile sector. A special incentive has
been provided under the project to facilitate the use
of expert services in preparation of economically and
financially viable investment programs for the
beneficiary textile enterprises.



-v-
USS million (equivalent)
Project Cost                                   Foreign   Local   Total
Investments                                 33.0      33.0    66.0
Technical Assistance                          1.1      1.2      2.3
Training                                     0.6       -        0.6
Total                                  34.7      34.2    68.9
US$ million (equivalent)
Project Finance                                 Foreign   Local   Total
Bank Loan                                   34.7       -       34.7
Investor self-finance                        -        21.0    21.0
Domestic Banks                               -        13.2    13.2
Total                                  34.7      34.2    68.9
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million Equivalent
FY1985  FY1986  FY1987  FY1988  FY1989
Annual                            1.6     8.1    12.6      9.4      3.0
Cumulative                        1.6     9.7    22.3    31.7    34.7
Appraisal Report:                      No.  4938a-PO, dated April 24, 1984



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Portugal has requested a Bank
loan of US$34.7 million to help finance the restructuring investment needs
of the textile industry 1/ in Portugal. US$33.0 million of the proposed
loan would be channeled through the participating financial institutions to
help finance the eligible restructuring investments to be implemented by
textile enterprises. Of the remainder, US$1.1 million (including
contingencies) would be used to fituance part of the specialized technical
assistance services to the eligible enterprises to improve their
efficiency, and to the Ministry of Industry and Energy to strengthen its
capacity to monitor the impact of the textile restructuring process;
US$0.6 million would be used to finance a comprehensive training study and
specific textile training equipment. The proposed project with a total
cost of US$68.9 million would finance about 30% of the textile
restructuring investments expected over the 1984-87 period. The balance
would be financed with the industry's own funds and by domestic financial
institutions and bilateral sources (e.g., suppliers' credits).
1.02      The proposed project is expected to assist about 40 textile
restructuring investment projects. About 75% of these would be in the more
labor-intensive textile activities of finishing and garment making
accounting for 50% of the US$33.0 million credit line. The restructuring
investments to be financed are expected to create/maintain about 1,700
jobs, at an average cost per job ranging from US$10,000 to US$85,000.
1.03      During implementation, the proposed project would also assist the
Government to further the gains already made in the policy environment
(e.g., revision of the investment incentive system and amendment of labor
regulation), particularly in designing new and effective textile incentive
measures. The Government's adoption of the textile restructuring strategy
and restructuring eligibility criteria as defined for the proposed project,
as well as the Government's agreement to the principle of a streamlined,
fiscal-based and less costly textile incentive scheme mark important steps
in the appropriate direction.
1.04      The proposed project is the direct result of the Government's
desire to promote subsectoral restructuring. The Bank's first review of
the textile industry was conducted in August 1977. Subsequently, a
reconnaissance mission visited Portugal in June 1980 at the Government's
request to review the restructuring needs and prospects of the industry as
proposed in a report by Werner International prepared for the Government.
After extensive discussions with the Government of the different technical
and institutional approaches possible for the Bank's involvement in textile
restructuring in Portugal, a satisfactory framework was evolved, and the
project was appraised in September/October 1983, by a Bank mission
consisting of Ms. K. Nguyen, Messrs. A. Sandig and K. Zamani of the
Industry Department and R. Khonsary (consultant). This would be the first
loan made by the Bank to Portugal to support specifically a subsectoral
1/   The textile industry is defined to include spinning, weaving,
finishing, knitting and making-up (garments and household goods).



-2-
adjustment program.  As restructuring is a long-term evolving undertaking,
the proposed project is a first step and an important vehicle for the
Bank's involvement in the policy issues related to the industrial sector in
general and the textile industry in particular. Together with other
ongoing industrial operations, this and future subsectoral loans currently
being planned would help ensure that structural change takes place at the
industry level in a consistent manner and with minimum disruption.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
2.01      The existing role of the industrial sector in Portugal, and the
major issues affecting industrial development, have been discussed in the
1982 industrial sector report 2/ which analyzes the restructuring problems
of the sector and discusses the policies needed.
A. Characteristics and Structure
2.02      The industrial sector is a leading sector in the Portuguese
economy accounting for about 30% of GDP, 35% of employment, 40% of capital
formation and about 90% of merchandise exports in 1982. The public sector
controls the large capital-intensive industries (i.e., steel, oil refining,
chemicals, fertilizer, pulp and paper, cement and shipbuilding) accounting
for about 35% of the manufacturing capital stock. These industries are
primarily oriented towards domestic markets. The private sector
predominates in the other industries, such as textiles, food processing,
transport equipment (other than ship-building), electrical-mechanical
products, wood, and cork. As the Government increasingly encourages a
larger role for the private sector, and as exports represent a key element
in the country's economic development, the textile industry is a priority
subsector in Portugal's industrial development strategy. Its
characteristics and performance are discussed in Chapter III.
B. Past Trends and Recent Performance
2.03      During the 1968-73 period, industry (growing at 10% p.a.) was the
driving force of the remarkable growth of the Portuguese economy (6.9%
p.a.). The Revolution of April 1974 and its aftermath have resulted in
serious disruptions in industrial growth (3% in 1974, -9.7% in 1975, and
4.5% in 1976). Sibstantial recovery took place, however, by 1977 with a
9.4% growth during the year, essentially based on general improvement in
the productivity of the labor force. In the 1977-79 period, performance of
industry continued to be good (about 3% p.a. or the same as for the economy
as a whole), in spite of the deflationary effects of the stabilization
program started in 1977. During 1980-82, the performance of the industrial
sector has been mixed and not as dynamic as in the last years of the
1970s. Whereas, in 1980, the 6% overall industrial growth rate continued
to be based on strong export performance as in the late 1970s, in 1982
(when industrial production rose by about 2%) production in many of the
2/   Portugal:  Policies for Industrial Restructuring, Report No. 3804-PO,
August 4, 1982.



- 3 -
main exporting subsectors such as textiles and electrical mechanical
industries actually declined, and the increase in overall output was only
sustained by the stronger performance in subsectors more reliant on
domestic demand. As the country's policies were progressively adjusted to
the long-term needs of an export-based industrial sector, industrial
exports resumed their pre-1974 role as the driving force of industrial
progress, growing at some 26% p.a. in real terms over 1977-79 (compared to
a decline of 30% p.a. during the period 1974-77). Growth of industrial
exports during the last several years has slowed down to an average of
about 10% p.a. in real terms.
C. Prospects and Priorities
2.04      The couparative advantage of Portugal lies in the relative
cheapness and abundance of skilled labor (although limited by labor
productivity below international standards) (para 2.05) and its
geographical preximity to the EEC markets. Although its timing is at
present uncertain, Portugal's planned membership of the EEC will radically
change the environment in which Portuguese industries operate. On the one
hand, there is a potential for export expansion in industrial activities
with the above-mentioned comparative advantage, once the demand level
recovers. These activities include shoes/leather, pulp and paper,
ceramics, garment-making and various branches in the engineering
subsector. On the other hand, Portugal will face increased inport
competition from the EEC partners, and most importantly from non-EEC
countries because of expected lower protection vis-a-vis these countries
(para 2.08). The textile industry is a prime target to experience these
changes. Because of its role in the industrial sector in terms of
employment and exports, it has been designated by the Government as a
priority subsector for restructuring and is the focus of the proposed
project.
D. Development Issues
2.05      Portuguese enterprises (large and small, public and private
alike) have long been suffering from structural weaknesses. These include
factors such as uneconomic size of the enterprises, unbalanced production
capacity, less than optimum product mix and market development, inadequate
product design and quality control, outdated technologies and shortage of
competent management. The above deficiencies are reflected in the low
productivity of many Portuguese industries. Rough estimates of total
factor productivity suggest a serious fall in the period 1973-77 averaging
2.5% p.a., and only very modest gains thereafter, compared to increases of
between 2-4% p.a. in other countries for which broadly comparable estimates
are available. Currently available data suggest that, even though small
improvements in productivity were achieved in 1980, the situation was
reversed in 1982 and the overall productivity position remains weak.
2.06      At the subsectoral level, the above trends suggest a disturbing
situation: productivity growth in many of Portugal:s traditional export
activities such as textiles (notably garment-making), engineering, pulp and
paper, and footwear, has not been sufficiently strong to allow full
exploitation of their labor cost advantage and, more importantly, to



-4-
withstand the intensified competition from outside the EEC. One reason for
this is the post-1974 labor legislation which severely restricts the
ability of enterprises to reduce employment, which now stands at some
20-40% above international standards for many subsectors (e.g., as much as
50,000 superfluous jobs in textiles).
E. Industrial Policies
2.07      In addition to the important role of overall Government policies
like regulation and monetary policies, the key elements of the Government's
policy toward industries are the system of fiscal and financial incentives,
and trade protection (notably import regulations).
2.08      Protection.  External nominal tariffs in Portugal are now quite
low, averaging about 8% overall, 5% vis-a-vis the EEC and 3% vis-a-vis the
European Free Trade Association (EFTA).3/ Footwear and clothing are the
only major exporting industries for which the overall protective tariff
exceeds 10%. The tariff adjustments of the last 4 years are thus
consistent with Portugal's planned EEC membership, and further reductions
to accommodate free entry from future EEC partners should pose few
problems. More serious problems will result from the acceptance of EEC's
common external tariffs against third countries (which would lower
Portugal's independent tariffs from an average of 15% to 9%, and much more
sharply for many traditional Portuguese industries such as textile,
footwear, furniture, engineering products), and particularly from the
dismantling of the currently very cumbersome import regulations which have
operated as fairly strict tariff barriers on certain goods (e.g.,
garments).
2.09      Industrial Incentives.  As discussed in the 1982 industrial
report, the Bank's review of the Portuguese system of industrial investment
incentives (SII) concluded that, since its inception in 1980, the system
has not been very effective. During discussions with the Government, the
following modifications have been recommended: (i) simplify the complex
administration of the scheme; (ii) introduce more selectivity in the many
forms of incentives to strengthen the signals intended for would-be
investors; (iii) reduce the magnitude of the investment subsidies granted;
(iv) introduce separate incentives for restructuring of existing
industries; (v) remove the bias against investments for equipment
replacement and rehabilitation; and (vi) replace the incentives for
regional development with more effective instruments such as provision of
better infrastructure. In March 1983, the Government modified the SIII
to extend the eligibility definition of investments to include replacement
of equipment, eliminate the regime of special incentives which formerly
offered very generous benefits, simplify some aspects of the eligibility
formula, streamline some of the application review and processing
procedures, and incorporate a 30% minimum equity requirement for eligible
investments. The revisions have responded in varying degrees to the issues
raised in recommendations (i), (ii), (iii) and (v) listed above. More
recently, in the context of the first consultation on the incentive policy
3/   This does not include the temporary surcharge of 30% set up in 1983,
and reduced to 10% for 1984.



- 5 -
with the Gov'ernment as agreed under the Bank's second project for Small and
Medium Industry (SMI),4/ the Government indicated that it is considering a
drastic revision of the investment incentive policy, and may 3bandon the
broad SIII framework altogether to replace it with separate incentive
measures tailored more specificall.y to individual subsectors, and adopt the
EEC's incentive approach for regional development. The Covernment has
asked for the Bank's continued collaboration to elaborate furthler the new
incentives.  Such follow-up would be carried out during our ecnnomic nnd
sector work, project work, and for the textile subsector, during the
implementation of the proposed project (para 4.03). The Government's
agreement to the eligibility criteria for textile restrtuctrinig investments
(para 7.01) marks an important step in this regard.
2.10      Labor Policies.  The labor legislation set tip in 1975 to ensure
the security of labor has made worker releases extremely difficult, and
resulted in chronic overmanning in many industries, including textile,
engineering and shipbuilding. Contributing to these difficulties is the
collective labor conventions agreed between the enterprises and labor
unions after 1975. which among other constraints have limited the
enterprises' ability to transfer employees from one function to another.
The rigidities in the labor market have gradually eased in recent years, as
a result of several factors. Notablv, the Government has been increasingly
authorizing the use of temporary, renewable labor contracts of one year or
six months' duration.   The available legal instrtments have also been used
in more imaginative ways by enterprises (e.g., early retirement offered to
an employee in exchange for a temporary contract for a vounger relative).
Recognizing that the competitivenMss of Portuguese industries cannot be
achieved without accepting job losses in kev subsectors, the Covernment has
in November 1983 approved an important amendment to the existing labor
regulation, which defines the procedures and compensation arrangements
whereby industrial enterprises can apply for official authorization to
reduce or suspend temporarily the work force and/or work hours when the
financial and economic viability of the enterprises is jeopardized as the
result of one or several of the following factors: poor market conditions,
poor competitiveness due to excessive labor, technological deficiencies, in
addition to the currently allowed condition of bankruptcy. The provisions
proposed seem to be reasonable partial measures, but the general qiuestion
of labor mobility will need carefully designed long-term solutions as well,
such as retraining, expansion of the production units, etc.
2.11      Monetary Policy.  The large public deficits have, since 1980,
caused the growth of credit to the public sector to increase more rapidly
than the growth of other forms of credit.  This has been the major
constraint on monetary policy, which has continued to rely mainly on credit
ceilings to hold down total credit. There have also been stuccessive
adjustments in interest rates. The recent increases in interest rates on
deposits have rapidly expanded the value of savings in the form of bank
deposits. In order to control the expansion of credit, the Bank of
Portugal (BdP) since 1978 has established monthly credit ceilings for
individual banks, determined within an overall limit for aggregate credit
expansion. Initially, purely quantitative ceilings were applied, but in
4/   SAR No. 4185-PO dated March 11, 1983, Loan No. 2263-PO.



-6-
1981 a qualitative approach was adopted in determining the base monthly
credit ceiling for each bank, with the various forms of credits and loans
carrying a different weight (depending on their degree of priority). The
base ceiling is adjusted in consideration of the degree to which the
respective bank extends priority credits relative to the proportion of such
credit being extended by the system as a whole. In addition, genuinely
punitive penalties on banks for exceeding the ceiling were established.
2.12      Interest Rates.  As the Portuguese interest rates were quite low
before the Revolution, the gradual increases after the Revolution were not
sufficient to compensate for the then accelerating inflation. During the
last five years, however, six interest rate increases were implemented,
raising the maximum lending rate from 14.75% to 32.5% and the maximum
deposit rate from 13% to 30%. All loans in Portugal are subject to a
floating interest rate which is adjusted when BdP changes interest rate
levels. In the last four years, interest rates on long-term loans have
been positive in real terms as follows:
Portugal - Interest Rate Trends
Long-term     Annual Rate
Lending Rate of Inflation Difference
1980              22.25         17.00           5.25
1981  July       24.00          20.00           4.00
1982  April       26.00         22.00           4.00
1983  March      30.00          25.00           5.00
August     32.50          25.00a/         7.50
a/ estimated.
The above pattern of positive real long-term interest rate is expected to
continue as the Government under the October 1983 IMF stand-by arrangement
is committed to maintain a flexible stance with respect to interest rate
policy in order to ensure the relative attractiveness of holding domestic
financial assets and to control the demand for credit. Confirmation that
the Government intends to maintain real interest rates at positive real
levels was already obtained in the context of Bank's recent SMI II loan.
Currently, some changes are under consideration, including the possibility
of a decline in the final lending rates to reflect the expected reduction
in inflation during 1984.
F. Industrial Strategy
2.13  -   Against this background, two of the main objectives for
Portugal's industrial development strategy should be (i) to restructure and
modernize key industrial subsectors and existing enterprises (private and
public) which have potential for efficient growth, and (ii) to increase
investment in and output from new production units and/or new private
enterprises, which can export and, among other things, may help absorb the
labor released from the industries to be restructured. Industrial
rescructuring would involve: (i) industrial reorganization (e.g.,through



- 7 -
phasing out non-viable units or merging them into larger, more efficient
plants); (ii) rationalization in output structure (e.g., through better
design and quality for existing products, phasing out of some products and
introduction of new ones in the higher value-added categories); and
(iii) improvements in plants' efficiency (e.g., through measures to reduce
production costs, improve management practices, train workers and modernize
equipment). Other priority areas for industrial strategy are optimization
of use of national resources and development of new and existing industries
with advanced technologies.
2.14      Although the restructuring approach to be adopted for each
subsector will need to be tailored to its specific problems and needs, it
will basically involve one or more of the three elements defined above.
The basic action package for a coherent restructuring program should
include the following components: (i) appropriate policies (e.g.,
industrial incentives, labor laws) to guide and support the following
elements of the restructuring action program; (ii) technical assistance and
training services; and (iii) financing for the corresponding investment
requirements. In the formulation of these policies, emphasis should be
given to allow market signals, rather than direct Government intervention,
to set the direction and pace of restructuring.
2.15      In a recent draft law for industrial development (which is being
reviewed within the Bank at the request of the Government), the above
restructuring objectives are given high priority for traditional industries
such as textile and mechanical industries. With Bank assistance the
Government is already implementing specific restructuring programs for a
number of specific public enterprises (e.g., in fertilizers,
hydromechanical equipment, steel casting and valves).5/ The Government has
also commissioned a number of subsectoral studies for key industries such
as textile, engineering and pulp/paper.6/ The textile subsector study is
already available, and together with the Bank's 1983 report on Industrial
Restructuring, has served as a basis for technical and policy discussions
between the Government and Bank during the past three years.  These
continuing discussions have led to the Government's new draft plan for
textile restructuring (reviewed in Chapter IV), and form the basis for the
proposed project (Chapter V). Discussions about other subsectoral
adjustment programs are expected to take place between the Government and
Bank within the coming two years, as the remaining subsector studies are
completed, and in the course of the Government's efforts to develop
programs/measures to increase the dynamism of the Portuguese industrial
sector.
5/   The Bank is currently also assisting the Government in reviewing the
problems of public sector enterprises to formulate a more
comprehensive restructuring action program.
6/   These last two studies are funded under ongoing Bank-financed
projects.



- 8 -
III. THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
A. Introduction
3.01      The textile industry in Portugal is wholly owned by the private
sector. It was largely a creation of the import substitution policies
implemented in the 1930s and its growth since 1946 can be ascribed to
export opportunities created by the disruption of European economies
following the second World War as well as significantly lower labor costs
in Portugal as compared with Western Europe. The industry reached its peak
output in 1973. Following a severe drop due to the 1974 Revolution, it has
been gradually increasing its production; in 1982, output reached only 76%
of the 1973 level.
3.02      The industry makes an important contribution to manufacturing
output and in 1980 it accounted for 9.6% of the GDP, 17.5% of the
employment in manufacturing and 26.6% of the total exports. Out of the
total 175,000 people employed in the textile industry, 105,000 are engaged
in primary textiles and 70,000 in downstream activities like garment and
making-up activities.
3.03      The industry produces a comprehensive range of products, and
includes all stages of manufacturing from spinning to ready-made garments
and household goods. Portugal imports all its cotton and about half of its
man-made fibers; imported fibers account for about 86% of total fiber
consumption in the primary textile mills. The relative proportion between
the natural and man-made fibers (46% in 1980) has remained practically
constant since the 1970s. Most of the textile mills use conventional
technology, i.e., ring spinning and shuttle looms. In 1980, out of 1.6
million spindles installed, only 0.6% were of the high-speed open-end type
and out of 28,000 looms, only 6.4% were modern shuttleless weaving
machines.
B. Structure
3.04      Most Portuguese firms are too small to benefit from economies of
scale. In the primary sector, 81.5% of the companies employ less than 200
workers and only 4% of the companies employ more than 500 people.
Inadequate scale is less of a factor in knitting and making-up industries,
but even here there are many companies which do not achieve a viable scale
of operations as 83.2% of the enterprises employ less than 100 workers.
3.05      The industry is well developed at all stages of production, i.e.,
spinning, weaving, finishing, knitting and making-up industries. This,
combined with a higher level of protection on finished goods (para 4.02)
explains the high share of consumption met by domestic production. The
material balance of the textile industry production is shown in Annex 3-1.
In marked contrast to such successful textile exporter as Hongkong, which
imports yarn and most of the fabrics and concentrates on more
labor-intensive and profitable downstream operations, the Portuguese
production structure indicates an excess of yarn and fabrics as compared
with the downstream operations. The structure of the industry is shown in
the following table.



- 9 -
Portugal - Structure of the Textile Industry
Active      % of      % of
Operations                    Companies  Workers  Production a/
Primary Textiles:
Cotton & Blends                  431      39.9        43.5
Wool & Blends                    230       13.6        9.5
Knitting b/                        507      17.5        16.7
Garments & Making-up               415       19.8       17.5
Other Products c/                   66        4.2        6.2
Paper, Cordage, etc.                18       2.1         2.4
Man-made Fiber Manufacturing        11        2.9        4.2
Total                      1,678      100.0       100.0
a/ By value.
h/ Including making-up of knitted articles.
c/ Trimmings, laces, canvas, etc.
Source: Study of the Textile Industry in Portugal, by Werner
International, 1980 (hereafter referred to as the Werner
Report).
3.06      Most of the companies are relatively small and family owned, the
degree of vertical integration within any given company is not
significant. It is estimated that not more than 25% of the mills in the
primary sector are fully integrated, i.e., simultaneously opetate spinning,
weaving and finishing facilities. In cotton and man-made fibers, 540
weaving mills are serviced by 110 spinning companies indicating a large
number of independent weavers. This structure allows a fair degree of
specialization but as the units are small, the problem of economies of
scale still exists.
C. Machine and Labor Productivity
3.07      Further problems arise from the large proportion of aging
equipment. The figures in the following table indicate that over 40% of
the industry's spindles and looms were installed before 1965.
Portugal - Age of Installed Plant (1979)
(X.)
Spindles          Looms
Pre-1954              13.0            16.1
1955-59               12.3             5.6
1960-64               17.9            19.3
1965-69               12.2            26.4
1970-74               38.6            16.2
After 1974             6.0            16.4
Total %          100.0           100.0



- 10 -
3.08      Both machine and labor productivity in the Portuguese mills are
well below European and North American standards. The relatively small
size of the enterprises, obsolescence of the equipment, and less than
optimal method of operation contribute to low machine productivity. For
example, the average efficiency in cotton spinning in Portugal is 81.5%
compared with the international standard of 93%. The efficiency level in
weaving is about 76% vs. 91%, respectively. The labor productivity is also
affected by the high degree of absenteeism and overstaffing in the
enterprises, as shown in the following table:
Portugal - Labor Productivity Expressed
as % of International Levels
Spinning ......         .......  52.4
Weaving .... ... . 57.1
Finishing .. ............. 71.0
Making-up .. ..              ...... 71.5
The productivity problems are exacerbated in many cases by poor management
practices, high waste, low product quality and poor maintenance resulting
in excessive downtime required for mechanical repairs. These factors
contribute to high cost and low profitability for the majority of the
textile enterprises.
D. Financial Performance
3.09      The financial structure of the textile companies is very weak.
Traditionally, the enterprises in Portugal have been highly leveraged with
borrowed funds. Also after 1974, the unit labor costs increased
drastically while labor discipline collapsed and production volume
decreased 7/ resulting in lower profits and deterioration of the financial
position. According to the Werner Report, almost half of the companies in
the sector had equity below 20% of total assets. About 27% of the
Portuguese textile companies reviewed in the study were making losses and
only one third showed reasonable profits, while the others were marginally
profitable. This is the position of the industry taken as a whole and it
should be qualified as there are a limited number of larger, modern,
integrated and well-managed companies which have been operating efficiently
and profitably, and successfully exporting a large proportion of their
output. Nevertheless, discussions with the banks and enterprises indicate
that the deteriorating financial performance of textile enterprises has
brought into much sharper focus the urgent need for efficient restructuring
of the industries.
E. The Textile Market
3.10      The recent development of the textile market in Portugal is shown
in Annex 3-2. As noted earlier, textile production in Portugal reached its
peak in 1973 when production was 294 thousand metric tons (TMT) with
exports amounting to 60% of the production. Domestic consumption per
capita was 17 kg. Imported textile articles (apart from raw materials)
7/   In 1975 production dropped by 46.3% as compared with 1973.



- 11 -
accounted in 1982 for only about 40% of the domestic consumption, as
compared with 60-70% for EEC countries.  After 1974, production dropped
precipitously and in 1978, yarn production of all types amounted to 209
THT, fabric production to 187 TMT and the volume of garments and making-up
goods produced was 74 TMT. Domestic consumption per capita was 8 kg in
1978, aad reached 8.7 kg in 1982.
3.11      Since 1976, the first year the industry started recovering after
the Revolution, the production of textiles increased at an annual rate of
4.5% until 1980. After 1980, however, production decreased sharply, and in
1982, the industry was operating at 80% capacity utilization and still 24Z
below the 1973 level. In the same period the consumption per capita
decreased by about 30% (Annex 3-2), despite a small increase in GDP per
capita. Traditionally, the industry has been export oriented and exports
have been increasing steadily from 121.2 TMT in 1976 to 183.8 TMT in 1982,
or at the rate of 6.4% per annum. In 1982, exports amounted to 77.3% of
production, the first year that the volume of exports exceeded the 1973
level. At the same time, the value of exports has grown from Esc. 14.5
billion (US$477 million) to Esc. 94.9 billion (US$1,234 million). In 1973,
yarns and woven fabrics accounted for 45% of the volume, while garments and
other make-up articles accounted for only 25%. In 1982, the respective
figures were 27% and 42% (Annex 3-3), indicating a trend towards
exportation of higher value added articles (value added per kg increased in
real terms by 144% between 1973 and 1982). As far as the destination of
exports is concerned, there has been a steady increase in the proportion of
exports to EEC and EFTA countries which in 1982 amounted to 88.8% of the
total, as compared to 66.4% in 1973, while exports to other countries
declined (e.g., share of exports to the US and Canada decreased from about
18% in 1973 to about 6% in 1982).
3.12      The growth of textile exports to Western European countries,
particularly to the EEC, can be explained in several ways. The
geographical location of Portugal allows for faster deliveries and lower
cost of freight as compared with South American and Far Eastern sources of
supply. On average, the cost of labor in Portugal is about 70% lower than
in EEC countries; even allowing for 4C% lower productivity, the unit labor
costs in the Portuguese textile sector are about half of those in the EEC.
Furthermore, the growth of Portuguese exports to EEC can be traced to the
provisions of the Multi-Fiber Agreement (MFA) regarding international trade
in textiles. The MFA regulations apply to imports of nearly 130 categories
of textile products from 40 countries. Several types of products (mostly
cotton yarn, fabrics and garments) in the so-called sensitive
categories V  are subject to strict quotas negotiated with the individual
exporting countries. In the last five years, the EEC quotas for imports of
Portuguese textile products in the sensitive categories have been
increasing at the rate of 4-5X p.a. On the whole, MFA appears to have had
a beneficial effect on Portuguese textile exports as it allows them, within
8/ Sensitive import categories are defined as those which, due to the
relatively low level of investment needed, the easily transportable
nature of textile products, the relatively unskilled nature of the work
and unsophisticated level of technology, are likely to cause
disruptions of the domestic (EEC) markets.



- 12 -
the agreed quotas, to compete with higher priced EEC domestic products,
while at the same time they do not have to compete directly with low priced
imports from South American and Far Eastern countries. While textiles
account for about 26% of Portugal's total exports, the role of Portugal as
a supplier of textiles to the world markets is rather small. In 1982,
Portuguese textile exports (except fibers) accounted for about 4.6% of EEC
imports from outside EEC sources, and less than 0.5% of US imports. Most
of the EEC quotas assigned to Portugal (except for knitwear and household
goods) were only partially filled (Annex 3-4).
3.13      The date of Portugal's accession to the EEC was originally
planned for 1983, but in view of many unresolved problems, 1986 is
considered more realistic. Regarding textiles, an agreement was reached in
September 1982 that after 1983 and prior to the accession, the overall
growth of Portuguese exports of textiles to the EEC will be limited to an
average 8-15% p.a. (depending on the product). The same level of growth
would continue during the first three years following accession-after
that, export limitations would be eliminated. Imports of finished textile
products into Portugal currently are subject to tariffs (para 4.02) as well
as licensing through import permits administered by the Textile Institute
on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. This limited the growth of imports
(other than raw materials) in the last decade to about 3.5% p.a.; however,
this situation will change under the rules of accession. Portugal will
have to share the EEC import program governed by MFAL. This share for
Portugal is estimated at about 1.5% of the EEC's external imports, or 25
TMT as compared with about 11 TMT of finished textile products (other than
fibers) which are currently imported by Portugal from non-EEC sources.
This estimated loss of the domestic share would be certainly a strong
inducement for textile enterprises to restructure to improve their
coupetitiveness. No substantial increase of textile imports is expected
from Spain, even though Spain may be joining the EEC at the same time as
Portugal as the labor costs in Spain are considerably higher than in
Portugal and current Spanish exports to EEC countries are negligible.
3.14      Projections for the textile market are shown in Annex 3-5.
As GDP is projected to increase by 2% in 1985 and 3% p.a. thereafter, the
prospects are for about a 30% increase in production of textiles by 1993.
As by that time Portugal would be a full member of EEC, it is projected
that imports would eventually reach the level of domestic consumption
prevailing in EEC member countries (73%), while consumption would follow
the growth of GNP, subject to the observed elasticity of demand for
textiles. On this basis the volume of textile exports in 1993 would amount
to 256.6 TMT, growing at about 4% p.a. between 1982 and 1993, about the
same rate as actually observed for 1976-80. The actual growth could be
higher but would depend on the timing of the accession as well as the
success of the restructuring program, especially in controlling costs by
increasing productivity to compensate for the inevitable increase in the
cost of labor after accession. In view of the relatively lower unit cost
of labor in Portugal (para 3.12) and the smaller share of labor in the
production cost structure (12% of the cost of spinning, 25% for weaving and
about 40% for making-up industries, 9/) Portugal is cuLrently enjoying a
9/   International Production Cost Comparison (ITMF) (1983).



- 13 -
considerable comparative advantage. Thus, in terms of Portugal's
penetration into the EEC markets (assuming 3% p.a. growth of EEC textile
imports 10/ by 1993) the Portuguese textile goods are projected to
increase to about 2.5% of the EEC's total textile imports as compared with
1.6% of the imports in 1982.
F. Problems and Issues in Restructuring
3.15      Restructuring of the industry through rationalization and
modernization of the upstream facilities and expansion of the garment and
making-up sector should bernefit the industry by: (i) lowering the
production costs and improving the competitive position vs. foreign
manufacturers; (ii) maximizing the comparative advantage; (iii) increasing
the value added of output and return on in-estment; and (iv) minimizing the
number of employees facing redundancy through redeployment of manpower from
upstream to downstream activities. Moves towards restructuring the
industry along the lines described above are likely, however, to face
several constraints. One of the main problems is the inverted pyramid
structure of the sector wherein the upstream facilities (spinninrg) produce
more than can be absorbed by weaving which, in turn, has an output in
excess of the capacity of the downstream garment and making-up industries.
Spinning and weaving are considerably more capital-intensive than garment
and make-up manufacture (the cost per new job ranges from $8,000 for
making-up to $150,000 for integrated primary textile operations).
Therefore the present structure of the industry is not compatible with
Portugal's comparative advantage of low-cost labor. The major objective of
restructuring should be therefore to balance the production structure which
would reduce capital costs of investment required, change the composition,
and increase the value added of exports. A first step would be to freeze
the total yarn spinning capacity and limit the growth of the weaving
capacity 11/ which may involve closing down of some obsolete and
financially non-viable enterprises.  Such a move would take some time to
carry out due to the typically lengthy negotiations between mill owners and
labor unions. Another problem is that in the capital-intensive upstream
operations, most Portuguese companies are too small to achieve economies of
scale and even in the knitting and making-up sectors, where size is less of
a problem, there are many enterprises below economically viable minimum
production volume (para 3.04). Because these small enterprises are
privately owned, and managed by family members, structural changes like
mergers, take-overs or joint ownership of upstream or downstream operations
would take time to materialize.
3.16      The problem of overmanning of the textile factories in terms of
operating and non-operating personnel (estimated to amount to 40% in excess
of international standards or as many as 50,000 jobs) presents yet another
constraint for successful restructuring. The labor legislation has made
shedding of excess labor extremely difficult both in terms of the legal
procedure as well as the cost of severance pay which in many instances may
exceed the net worth and force bankruptcy of the company. Apart from the
long awaited action by the Government to amend the labor legislation
10/ As implied by MFA.
11/ Essentially limiting investment to replacement and rehabilitation.



- 14 -
(para 4.04), the proposed restructuring of the industry in the direction of
expanding the more labor-intensive knitting, garment and making-up
manufacturing is expected to help redeployment of jobs and alleviate at
least part of this problem. Rough calculations indicate that, if the
excess of workers in the primary textile industry is reduced by about
25,000 and productivity in the downstream industries increased from 70% to
80% (reducing employment by 9,000), the opportunities created by projected
growth of exports of knitwear, garments and making-up articles could absorb
most of the labor to be shifted in the sector.
G. Investment Requirements
3.17      In addition to the overmanning and low labor productivity
discussed above, the other structural problem is the high average age and
obsolescence of the equipment resulting in low machine productivity.
The market forecast (Annex 3-5) indicates 1993 production of 289 TMT, an
increase in exports by 80 TMT, and in imports by about 50 TMT (to include
yarn and grey cloth/fabrics when these products may be available more
cheaply from the high-volume low-cost producers in other countries after
Portugal's accession to EEC) (para 3.14). Based on the applications
submitted for SIII incentives, investments in the textile industry during
1980-82 actually averaged about US$100 million p.a. consistent with import
data for textile machinery into Portugal which has averaged about
US$90 million p.a. over the 1976-81 period. Consequently, the investment
projected to take place over the commitment period of the proposed loan
(1984-87) would be of the order of US$75-80 million p.a., while the total
investment requirements for restructuring the industry may be of the order
of US$1.3 billion over the next decade. This investment rate may not be
fully realized, however, as availability of investment capital for
restructuring may be limited in this period of expected relatively slow
domestic and EEC growth and restrictive domestic monetary and fiscal
policies (paras 2.11-2.12). This would have consequences for funds
internally generated by the textile companies, availability of credit from
the commercial banks (because they are subject to credit ceiling
restrictions) as well as the availability of foreign currency (in view of
the Government's policy to control the expansion of foreign debt).
H. Priorities for Investment
3.18      As it appears that funds available for investment may fall short
of the total financial requirements of the textile subsector, it is
necessary to establish certain priorities in terms of access to credit for
the various subsectors within the industry. Consequently, the first
priority should be given to projects in knitting, garment manufacturing and
making up industries in view of the low investment costs per job created,
higher value added and comparative advantage of the outputs in the export
markets. Next in priority would be investments for dyeing, printing and
finishing facilities because of the paramount importance of that stage of
manufacturing for the quality of the export items, both fabrics as well as
garments and making-up articles; availability of extra capacity would also
allow the industry to convert low-cost imported grey cloth, a practice
currently successfully used in the EEC countries.



- 15 -
3.19      As far as weaving is concerned, returns on investments in
rehabilitation are usually higher than those from new projects.
Consequently, selective rehabilitation should be given priority over
expansion and new installations (particularly in view of the present state
of technology allowing only a limited increase of width for the existing
looms) as well as boosting production capacity through conversion from
shuttle to shuttleless operation. A detailed recent Bank study 12/
indicates that replacement vs. rehabilitation decisions need to be made on
a mill-by-mill basis but generally rehabilitation appears worthwhile only
for post-1960 installations. In case of older equipment, shortage of spare
parts for looms originally supplied by manufacturers which may no longer be
in business, as well as limitations in the width and speed increase which
can be achieved, make the rehabilitation option economically nonviable. In
the case of spinning, the new high performance spindles operate at speeds
about 40% higher than anything that can be achieved through rehabilitation
of the old equipment and also the labor requirements in new installations
can be reduced by 30-50%. Consequently, while the capital cost of new
spinning equipment may be up to three times higher, when the difference in
volume and operating costs is taken into consideration, rehabilitation is
likely to be less profitable than replacement with new modern machinery,
particularly when the existing spinning machinery is more than 20 years
old.
3.20      A ranking of priorities for investment following from the
discussion above would thus be:
(i) Knitting, garment manufacturing and making-up;
(ii) Dyeing, printing and finishing;
(iii) Rehabilitation and/or replacement of weaving facilities;
(iv) Expansion of weaving facilities;
(v) Rehabilitation and/or replacement of spinning facilities.
IV. POLICY AND STRATEGY FOR THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
4.01      Along with the rest of the industrial sector, the textile
industry is both assisted and controlled by the system of investment
incentives, tariffs/import restrictions, and the labor policies discussed
in Chapter II. These policies and future directions for the restructuring
of the textile industry are discussed below.
A. Policies
4.02      Protection.  The tariff adjustments made by the Government over
the last few years in anticipation of the upcoming EEC membership have
12/ Philippines - Textile Sector Restructuring Project, Report No.
3700-PH.



- 16 -
considerably lowered tile protection received by the textile industry.
In particular, the tariffs applicable to textile imports from EEC countries
now range between 3-11%, and those for imports from non-EEC countries are
between 10X and 70% (these levels not incorporating the temporary surcharge
of 30% set up for 1983, and to be reduced soon to 10% for 1984). Further
tariff reductions to accommodate free entry from future EEC partners should
not immediately create serious problems for the Portuguese textile
industries. The competition, however, will be more severe from non-EEC
countries after Portugal's accession to the EEC, when these tariffs would
have to be lowered to a range of 2-16%, and the current import restrictions
for textile goods would be replaced by the MFA provisions. After EEC
entry, the effective protection for textile activities would become
negligible, except for garments (13%). Under the rules of accession agreed
during 1982, within seven years following the accession date (currently
expected for 1986), Portugal will have to eliminate all tariff and
non-tariff barriers towards EEC countries, and adjust its external tariffs
and import restrictions towards non-EEC countries to the EEC level. The
anticipated loss of some market share to result from these last adjustments
will certainly exert strong pressures on enterprises for efficient
restructuring.
4.03      Investment Incentives.  Under the existing SIII scheme discussed
in Chapter II, the textile subsector is eligible for the same incentives as
available for other subsectors. In a recent draft textile development plan
(para 4.05), the Government proposed to supplement the modified SIII with
additional incentives to address more specifically the restructuring
objectives for the textile industry. Our preliminary review of these
proposals 13/ indicates that the additional measures being envisaged for
textiles merely extend the existing SIII, and this linkage would add to the
existing problems of complex administration and excessive budgetary costs.
Also, the proposed subsectoral precision (e.g., 4 broad activities divided
into 58 sub-categories) to be introduced into the textile incentive
eligibility formula seems excessive and counterproductive when considered
against the magnitude and probable effects of the differential benefits
thus made available. Against this background, the current thinking within
the Government for abolishing the SIII scheme, and in particular the
intention to set up separate restructuring incentive measures tailored to
specific subsectoral needs, is a desirable policy development, and should
have beneficial effects on the restructuring of the textile industry. As
textiles is the first subsector for which this new incentive policy will be
applied, further analyses are needed to design specific and coherent
incentive measures for the subsector. The Government has appointed a
working committee (consisting of representatives from the Ministries of
Finance and Planning, Industry and Agriculture) to formulate proposals for
a new overall incentive policy. Bank staff will be working closely with
the committee in this process with regards to both the broader incentives
(e.g., for regional development) and the more specifically focussed
incentives (e.g., for subsectors), in the context of regular sector,
project and economic missions to Portugal. The dialogue with regard to the
textile subsector has already begun (para 5.03).
13/ Available in the Project File.



- 17 -
4.04      Labor Regulations.  The labor market conditions appear recently
to have become more flexible in the textile subsector than in some other
subsectors. One reason is the current high unemployment in the textile
industry (4,918 workers were laid off during the first 6 months of 1983, or
double the total number for 1982) which has been caused by the serious
financial position of many enterprises and has softened the demands of
labor unions. In 1981, the Government issued a decree to generalize for
all future labor conventions in the textile subsector new provisions
whereby workers' rights are modified from those agreed to in the 1975 labor
convention. The most recent legislation approved by the Government to set
out provisions for suspension of work contracts and temporary work
reduction and/or layoffs (para 2.10) should benefit the textile industry
and its labor force in the long run, in spite of inevitable losses of jobs
in the short term. This economic case seems to have been accepted--albeit
with difficulty--by the parties concerned in the textile industry.
B. Textile Development Plan
4.05      After several changes of Government and versions of the textile
plan since 1980, a new draft Development Plan for the Textile Industry 14/
to cover the period 1984-87 has recently been prepared by the Ministry of
Industry and Energy (MIE). At present, its finalization is expected by the
end of 1984. The draft Plan provides a diagnostic of the present and
expected problems of the subsector and offers a broad policy framework as
well as two possible alternative approaches for its efficient development
over the next several years. The objectives and basic approach for
restructuring the subsector as postulated in the draft plan are in line
with those described in paras 2.13 and 2.14.. Namely, restructuring
initiatives should be left to the private sector and market forces, the
size and output structure of the industry need to be reorganized and its
efficiency improved. Within the subsector, indicated priorities are in
line with comparative advantage considerations and are given first for
modernization and expansion of the downstream activities (finishing,
knitting and garment making), and then, efficient rehabilitation/
modernization of the upstream activities (spinning and weaving) as
discussed in paras 3.18-3.20. Consistent with para 2.14, there are three
basic elements as follows:
(a) Policy Changes. These include the tariff reductions and import
liberalization, restructuring incentives and labor regulation as
discussed in paras 4.02-4.04 above. The new textile
restructuring incentives are to be set up in connection with the
proposed project with eligibility criteria to be consistent with
the ones defined for the proposed project (para 5.03).
(b)  Technical and Structural Improvements.  Increased productivity
levels for the different types of activities within the subsector
(e.g., spinning, weaving, finishing, garment making) and better
output structure would be promoted through technical assistance
measures to: (i) improve the firm's utilization of production
capacities, management practices, product development and quality
14/ Available in the Project File.



- 18 -
control, and marketing approaches; (ii) phase out uneconomic
plants and/or reorganize them into more efficient production
units; and (iii) rehabilitate and/or replace aging equipment.
The Government would encourage firms to acquire technical
assistance with a two-pronged approach: namely, through offering
special incentives to help eligible firms pay for the technical
assistance services needed to prepare and implement their
restructuring investments as well as to train their staff and
through providing incentives to the local consulting firms to
strengthen their capabilities to respond to the industry's
technical assistance needs. The proposed private initiative
approach to technical assistance is consistent with the one
adopted for the proposed project (paras 5.09-5.10). Training is
an element of the proposed project (para 5.11).
(c) Financing. The last element elaborated in the Government's
Textile Plan is the estimated financing requirements for each
restructuring scenario. The resources to meet these investment
requirements (para 4.06) would come in part from the proposed
Bank loan (paras 5.06-5.08) as well as investors' own resources,
external credit (e.g., suppliers' credits) and credits from the
Portuguese financial system.
4.06      Restructuring Investment Estimates.  The draft Plan offers a set
of detailed targets which could be achieved by 1987 for each of the main
textile activities (spinning, weaving, finishing and garment making) in the
areas of production output, exports, consumption, employment, capacity
utilization and produc-ivity improvements. They are based on the
expectations of, on average, a 5% growth p.a. between 1984-87 in output
quantity; a higher 7% p.a. growth in output value to reflect the higher
value added of the future product mix; almost no growth for spinning; a
reduction of about 13,400 workers from all textile activities; and an
increase in labor and equipment productivities for each of the main textile
activities to internationally competitive levels (particularly for weaving
and garment making).15/ The corresponding investment requirements aLe
estimated as shown in the following table:
15/ Available in the Project File.



- 19 -
Portugal - Textile Industry Restructuring Project
MIE's Draft Textile Development Plan (1984-87)
Estimated Investment Requirements
(Esc. 10Y)
Optimum     Intermediate
Approach a/   Approach b/
Equipment:
Replacement/Rehabilitation             86.6    57.3   22.4    31.2
Additional New Equipment                11.7     7.7   14.4    20.0
Buildings and Installation               22.5    15.0   13.4    18.7
Working Capital                           16.0    10.6   14.9    20.7
(Subtotal)                         (136.8)  (90.6) (65.1)  (90.6)
Technical Assistance                      13.4     9.0    5.1      7.2
Fund for Acquisition of Coupanies         0.9      0.4    1.6      2.2
Total                               151.1   100.0   71.8   100.0
(in US$ million)                (1,119.3)         (532.0)
a/ The optimum approach is based on the hypothesis that equipment
would be rehabilitated/replaced such as to have equipment not more
than 15 years old by 1987.
b/ The intermediate approach is based on the hypothesis of
equipment not more than 25 years old by 1987.
4.07      Even though the intermediate approach with the investment
envelope of US$532 million equivalent seems to reflect correctly the real
medium term investment needs of the subsector, it still appears too
optimistic. As indicated in para 3.17, a more reasonable target is
considered to be about US$200-250 million during the 1984-87 period. The
proposed project would be a pilot program to initiate the intermediate
development approach, with follow-up programs to be prepared based on the
restructuring progress to be made during the coming years and additional
resource requirements.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
5.01      As indicated in Chapter III, the Bank has been involved since
1977 in reviewing the restructuring problems and prospects for the textile
subsector in Portugal. Different technical and institutional scenarios for
textile restructuring have been extensively discussed with the Government.
The Bank's involvement in this process has thus evolved to reflect a
broader subsectoral approach, and is proposed to be implemented via a
textile restructuring credit line channeled through Portuguese financial



- 20 -
institutions.16/ This approach is adopted to allow a timely and concrete
opportunity for assisting the Government in the formulation of sound
policies for its textile development plan, as well as to support the
Government's desire to give all textile enterprises equal possibility of
access to the restructuring process.
B. Project Objectives and Scope
5.02      The proposed project would assist the Government and enterprises
in implementing the objectives of the Textile Development Plan
(paras 4.05-4.07). The main project objectives are to help the Portuguese
textile industries strengthen their competitiveness through improvements in
labor and machine productivity, product design and quality, manpower skills
and the policy environment. These objectives require actions on the
following: (a) provision of specialized textile consulting services to
assist eligible enterprises and participating financial institutions (PFIs)
in the design/preparation, appraisal and implementatica of viable
restructuring projects, and to assist MIE's Textile Review Unit (TRU,
para 6.08)) in monitoring the implementation of the textile restructuring
process, developing a textile information system, and carrying out the
necessary studies for improving subsector performance, e.g., marke
studies; (b) financing, through a number of PFIs, of the physical
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing enterprises and
creation of new production units in the textile activities which meet the
guidelines of the Government's Textile Development Plan, as further
specified in the eligibility criteria (para 7.01); (c) financing of a
training component to include a study to develop a comprehensive training
program and the purchase of equipment for the quality control and training
facilities being operated by existing textile technical and educational
centers in Portugal; and (d) assistance to the Government to further the
gains already made in the policy environment, and in particular to assist
it in designing a textile incentive structure and finalizing the draft
Textile Development Plan (paras 5.03 and 7.11).
5.03      The Bank's assistance to the Government on the textile policy
front (para 5.02 (d)) represents the most important contribution of the
proposed project to the restructuring of the Portuguese textile subsector.
One such contribution is already in the project's institutional design
which emphasizes reliance on private initiatives, in particular the need to
keep separate the policy and financial functions. Another is the
establishment of specific and consistent restructuring criteria (para 7.01)
to guide the financial institutions and the textile enterprises. In
effect, in the face of growing problems in their textile portfolios, the
banks have already tried financial rescheduling, but with marginal success
because these actions most of the time do not address the roots of the
-problems. About'two-thirds of the textile enterprises at present are faced
with an increasingly precarious financial position (para 3.09), and do not
have a clear concept of the future potential of the industry nor the
16/ Preparation of the proposed project has yielded several restructuring
investment projects which subsequently had to be financed with other
resources, such as the Bank's second credit line to BFN (FY81).
Profiles of these projects are in the Project File.



- 21 -
specialized technical expertise to guide them in the restructuring
process. The above profitability problems, to be aggravated with the
anticipated loss of some market share after the EEC accession (paras 3.13
and 4.02), are already putting heavy pressures on both the textile
enterprises and their bankers for efficient restructuring. Finally, there
is the formulation of textile restructuring incentives which the Government
intends to set up within the (draft) Textile Development Plan (para 4.03).
These incentive measures, if well formulated, would be helpful to encourage
further the enterprises toward improving efficiency and competitive-zss.
The Government has agreed to the principle of a new textile incentive
scheme which is characterized by fiscal-based benefits, concentratec in a
few simple instruments, with simple administration procedures and smaller
budgetary requirements than the existing SIII. In adeition, the Government
has agreed that the new textile restructuring incentives will be governed
by eligibility criteria which are consistent with the criteria developed
for the proposed project (para 7.01). The Bank will be working closely
with the Portuguese authorities in the formulation of these textile
incentive measures, providing the services of expert consultants as
needed. As discussed above, because there are already strong natural
pressures on both the enterprises and the banks for restructuring in the
textile subsector, and the proposed project provides the resources,
technical assistance, and the technical/financial guidelines (as part of
the agreed eligibility criteria) to launch such restructuring at the
enterprise level, the immediate availability of the Textile Development
Plan and incentives would not be crucial to the proposed pilot project.
Rather than waiting for the formal promulgation of the Plan to participate,
our active involvement will facilitate the launching of the needed
restructuring exercises at the enterprise level which are justified on the
basis of the enterprises' economic and financial conditions. It has been
agreej that satisfactory textile incentive proposals would be formulated in
collaboration with the Bank and incorporated in the final draft legislation
to implement the Textile Development Plan for the Government's
consideration by December 31,1984.
C. Coordination With Other Bank Operations
5.04      Within the Bank's program of support to the industrial sector in
Portugal, the proposed loan would be complementary to the US$30 million
SKI II loan (Loan No. 2263-PO) to finance eligible SMI investment projects
in all activities of the industrial sector. Since the Government has
requested that SMI II continue to finance textile SMIs, special
arrangements have been agreed with the implementation agencies of SMI II to
ensure a consistent approach towards restructuring of the textile industry
(para 7.15). Coordination with the US$100 million Bank loan to BFN (Loan
No. 1942-PO) is ensured via the proposals in para 7.16.
D.- Project Costs
5.05      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated to be
US$68.9 million of which the proposed Bank loan is US$34.7 million. A
breakdown of project costs by major components is shown in the following
table:



- 22 -
Portugal - Textile Industry Restructuring Project
(US$ million)
Foreign a/   Local    Total
Project Costs
1. Eligible restructuring investments
to be financed
a) in high-priority activities b/       16.5       16.5      33.0
b) in other activities b/               16.5       16.5      33.0
33.0c/    33.0c/    66.0
2. Technical assistance
a) to eligible enterprises              0.8        1.2       2.0
b) to MIE/T%U                           0.2        -         0.2
1.0       1.2        2.2
3. Training
a) training study & training abroad   0.2          -         0.2
b) training equipment                   0.4        -         0.4
0.6       -          0.6
4.  Contingencies                              0.1        -          0.1
Total                         34.7       34.2       68.9
Project Financing
Bank loan                                     34.7        -         34.7
Investor self-financing                        -         21.0       21.0
Domestic Banks                                 -         13.2       13.2
Total                         34.7       34.2       68.9
a! This includes direct and indirect costs in foreign exchange.
b/ For definition, see para 7.01.
c/ For explanation, see para 5.07.
E. Project Components and Their Financing
5.06      Restructuring Investments Component.  The proposed allocation of
Bank funds of US$33.0 million for financing of eligible restructuring
investments is based on: (i) the expected investment requirements and
demand for restructuring the Portuguese textile subsector for the period
1984-87 (paras 3.17 and 4.07); (ii) the PFIs' projected 3-year pipeline of
textile investment projects and the expected proportion thereof which would
meet the eligibility criteria as elaborated in para 7.01; (iii) the
projected pipeline of textile SMI projects to be financed under the
on-going SMI II loan over 1983-1986 (para 5.04); and (iv) the expected
domestic resource availability (para 2.11) and the continued uncertainties
in the present investment climate in Portugal and in the EEC.
5.07      Of the estimated total project costs (US$68.9 million), the
proposed Bank loan of US$34.7 million equivalent would be lent to the
Government at the applicable variable Bank interest rate (currently 10.08%)
and for a term of 15 years including 3 years grace. The proposed textile
restructuring credit line (US$33.0 million equivalent) would be channeled
through the BdP to the PFIs. The onlending rate from the PFIs to the



- 23 -
textile enterprises is given in para 7.11. Although Bank funds may be used
to finance up to 65% of the individual investment costs, on average it is
expected that the credit line amount actually would cover 50% of the
estimated US$66.0 million total restructuring investment costs. The
balance would come from the investors' own funds (about 30%, para 7.01),
and borrow:ings from the PFIs and/or other external sources (e.g.,
suppliers' credit). The total investment costs of the projects to be
financed in part under the proposed credit line would represent 30% of the
investment requirements for 1984-87 as estimated in the Government's
textile restructuring plan (para 4.07). The proposed credit line would be
a pilot program, to be extended in view of the restructuring progress to be
made over the next years and additional resource requirements when these
are justified.
5.08      The proceeds of the restructuring zredit line would be used to
finance textile investment projects which meet the eligibility criteria
elaborated in para 7.01 and involve the rehabilitation and/or modernization
of existing fixed assets and/or acquisition of new fixed assets (excluding
land, but including permanent working capital and technical assistance
services). The proposed credit line is expected to finance about 40
textile investment projects. As defined in para 7.01(a), about 75% of
these would be in the higher priority textile activities of finishing and
garment making with an expected investment cost per job of less than
US$45,000 and US$10,000 respectively. The average size of investment cost
is expected to be about US$1.0 million for these higher priority textile
activities, and about US$2.5 million for the other activities - spinning
and weaving. Based on average costs per job ranging from US$10,000 to
US$85,000, the restructuring investment projects to be financed under the
proposed credit line are expected to create a total of about 1,700 jobs.
5.09      Technical Assistance Component.  This component consists of a
special scheme to finance part of the consulting services to be provided to
eligible enterprises and the Textile Review Unit (TRU). Of the proposed
loan, US$1.0 million would be allocated to the technical assistance
component. This amount would not require Government budgetary support for
its initial startup and for its repayment to the Bank (para 7.22). This
amount would cover on average about 34% of all the services to be provided
under the project. Of the US$1.0 million, US$0.8 million is expected to be
expended for textile technical assistance (TA) to enterprises and US$0.2
million for technical assistance to the TRU (paras 7.17-7.18). The balance
of the technical assistance expenditures would come from the beneficiaries
(own funds or borrowings, para 5.07).
5.10      The technical assistance services would be provided by consulting
firms as described in paras 7.17-7.18. These services consist of advising
on investment project preparation and designing of action programs to
improve operating practices, management and accounting procedures, design
new products, adopt new marketing approaches for the enterprises;
assessment of the technical design of investment projects, their choice of
technology, provision of market, EEC productivity, price and cost
information for the enterprises, PFIs and TRU. Based on the total
technical assistance cost estimated in para 5.05, it is expected that not
less than 285 consultant-months would be available during 1984-87 for



- 24 -
technical assistance at the enterprise level, or on average 7 man-months
per subproject. The consulting services for the TRU would consist of a
total 24 man-months to be spread over the same period.
5.11      Training Component.  This conponent would consist of:  (a) a
study to develop a comprehensive training program for the textile industry;
(b) equipment for training/quality control for facilities of the Textile
Institute (TI) in Oporto and Covilha, and training/testing equipment for
the University of Minho in Guimaraes; and (c) some advanced training abroad
for staff of related Government agencies (MIE, Institute for Assistance to
Small and Medium Enterprises (IAFMEI), TI). The cost of this component is
estimated to be US$0.6 million. The Bank loan would cover 100% of the
estimated cost of this component, and would be disbursed to the Government
who would channel it to the MIE/TI for implementing the training component
through its normal investment budget allocation process (paras 7.20-7.22).
The estimated cost of the proposed component is broken down as follows:
Portugal - Estimated Cost of Training Component
US$
(a) The Study based on 20 man-weeks of consulting
time plus travel and contingencies                  50,000
(b)  Equipment for University of Minho                  250,000
Equipment for the Textile Institute                150,000
(c) Advanced textile training
Three persons - two year courses leading to
Master Degree                                   60,000
Ten persons - six months textile technology
courses                                         50,000
Contingencies                                     40,000
Grand Total      600,000
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Background
6.01      The proposed project would strengthen the Government's efforts to
foster private initiatives by relying on a broad-based institutional set-up
for the implementation of the textile restructuring program. In addition
to the beneficiaries which would be responsible for implementing the
restructuring subprojects, the project relies substantially on the PFIs,
with the MIE and its specialized agencies also to be involved in some
aspects of the project implementation and in the monitoring thereof.
B. The PFIs
6.02      There are at present 17 financial institutions involved in
industrial financing in Portugal: the Bank of Portugal (Central Bank);
nine nationalized commercial banks; Caixa Geral de Depositos (CGD) which is
the major public savings institution; Banco de Fomento Nacional (BFN) which



- 25 -
is the Portuguese industrial development bank; and two investment
conpanies, the public sector Sociedade Financiera Portuguesa (SFP) and the
first privately owned, recently established Sociedade Portuguesa de
Investimentos (SPI); and three new leasing companies established in the
last two years. At tne time of appraisal, five financial institutions
agreed to participate in the proposed project, based on the objectives and
conditions established for the proposed credit line (Chapter VII). The
first four are the largest in the banking system in terms of net assets
(Annex 6-1), namely CGD, Banco Portugues Atlantico (BPA), Banco Pinto Sotto
Mayor (BPSM) and Banco Espirito Santo E Commercial de Lisboa (BESCL).
Together, they account for over 50% of the total outstanding credit
portfolio as of the end of 1982. The fifth PFI is the smaller,
IFC-assisted SPI which can offer equity financing in addition to
conventional medium and long-term investment credit to industries. Since
the appraisal mission, two other banks namely, Banco National Ultramarino
(BNU) and Banco Borges Irmao (BBI) have also expressed interest in
participating in the proposed project. These two institutions (and
eventually, others in the banking system) would be added to the list of
PFIs when a satisfactory Bank assessment is made of their textile appraisal
capabilities.
6.03      Textile Financing.  Loans from the banking system have been the
major source of finance for all industries in Portugal. As shown in the
following table and detailed in Annex 6-2, as of the end of 1982, the total
credit portfolio of the banking system was about Esc. 1,661.7 billion
(US$21.0 billion equivalent at end of 1982 exchange rate), about evenly
divided between short-term credit (49.7%) and medium- and long-term credit
(18.3% and 32.0%, respectively).
Portugal - Banking System Loan Portfolio - December 31, 1982
(billion Esc.)
Industrial
Total Credit         Credit       Textile Credit
Value       %    Value        %    Value     %_
Up to one year        825.9      49.7  384.7      64.1   83.1    73.1
One to five years    303.6       18.3   91.3      15.2   18.0    15.9
Over five years       532.2      32.0  124.6      20.7   12.6    11.0
Total             1,661.7    100.0  600.6    100.0  113.7   100.0
(% Share)            (100.0)           (36.1)            (6.8)
Of the total credit outstanding, industrial credit accounted for more than
one third (36.1% in 1982, decreasing from 40% in 1978), while the textile
industry has continued to maintain about a 6.8% share of total credit
outstanding. At the same time, the commercial banks held about three
fifths of the total banking system credit portfolio (60.2%) while the
savings and investment banks' share was about two fifths (39.8%). As seen
in the following table, at the end of 1982, the credit portfolio of the
commercial banks, at about Esc. 1,000.9 billion (or equivalent to
US$12.7 billion at end of 1982 exchange rate), was heavily concentrated on
the short-term (74.4% of the total) although the share of term credit has



- 26 -
been gradually increasing. This reflects in part the fact that the
commercial banks were allowed to lend medium- and long-term only since
1974. As shown in Annex 6-2, while the share of industzial credit in the
total credit portfolio has been decreasing over the last five years (from
50.2Z at the end of 1978 to 43.6% at the end of 1982), the textile industry
share has remained at about 10% over the last five years. The
concentration of industrial and textile portfolio of the commercial banks
on short-term credit was even heavier than in total credit, accounting
about 80%, although the situation has improved over the last five years
(from about 91% at the end of 1978).
Portugal - Commercial Banks Loan Portfolio - December 31, 1982
(billion Esc.)
Industrial
Total Credit        Credit       Textile Credit
Value     %      Value    X      Value    _
Up to one year        744.5   74.4   348.1   79.8    80.0        79.6
One to five years    170.4   17.0    63.5   14.6    15.7         15.6
Over five years        86.0    8.6    24.6    5.6       4.8       4.8
Total             1,000.9  100.0   436.2  100.0   100.5    100.0
(Z Share)            (100.0)          (43.6)          (10.0)
6.04      Together, the five PFIs accounted for 50% of the total
outstanding credit portfolio extended to the textile industry as of the end
of 1982. As detailed in the Project File and summarized in the following
table, the PFIs' textile share has been relatively constant at this level
since 1978. Their textile portfolio is characterized by a high
concentration in short maturity credit. Most of these short-term credits
tend to be rolled over a longer duration as needed by the enterprises. Of
the five PFIs, CGD has been the most active in term lending to industries
and to textiles with over 90% of its textile lending in long-term credits
during 1978-1982. Although growing considerably from the 1% share in 1978,
CGD's role in textile financing is still very small (only 6% of the total
portfolio of the banking system in 1982). BPSM continues to be the most
important financier of the textile subsector, maintaining over 1978-1982 a
17% share of the total textile portfolio of the banking system. A large
share of BPSM's loans for textiles (just as for industries in general) has
however very short maturity (84% in 1982, although already declining from a
share of over 98% in 1978). BPA and BESCL have been moving steadily into
industrial and textile financing since 1978. The PFIs' role in textile
financing is shown in the following table.



- 27 -
PORTUGAL - PFIs and Textile Financing
as of December 31, 1982
(billion Esc.)
TOTAL CREDIT          INDUSTRIAL CREDIT        TEXTILE CREDIT
ST   HT + LT    TotaL   ST   MT + LT  Total      ST    Kr + LT  Total
vlLue S Value _  Value Z  Value Z Value Z Value _value a Z v     a lIuu e
BESCL   98.4   12   38.0    5    136.4    a    50.4   13   22.9   11   73.3   12  9.3   11    5.0   16   14.3   13
SPSF    96.6   12   53.7  6    150.3    9    51.3   13   13.1  6   64.4   11    16.1   19    3.1   10   19.2   17
BPA    149.7   18   31.9    6    181.6   11    70.7   18   10.3    5   81.0   13    12.4   15    3.1   10   15.5   14
CCD     44.4    5  342.6   41    387.0   23    17.4    5   46.1   21   63.5   11  0.5    -    5.8   19    6.3    6
Spi      0.0  -  1.7  0   1.7  -  0.0  -  1.2  -  1.2  -  0.0  -  0.3  -  0.3  -
PFIS   389.1   47  467.9   56    857.0   51   189.8   49   93.6   43  283.4   42    38.3   46   17.3   55   55.6   50
All
banks a/  825.9  100  835.8  100  1,661.7  100   384.7  100  215.9  100  600.6  100    83.1  100   30.6  100  113.7  100
a/  This includes all comercial banks and savittgs institutions (e.g., CGD).
6.05      Institutional Set-Up and Capabilities of PFIs.  All private
Portuguese owned financial institutions, with the exception of the small
saving banks, were nationalized in 1975. CGD has always been public. The
nationalized credit institutions are legal entities with administrative and
financial autonomy, organized in the form of public sector enterprises.
Each is managed by a Board of Directors, consisting of a Chairman, a Vice
Chairman and five Board Members. While the board is jointly responsible
for the overall management of the institution, board members also have
specific individual responsibilities for staff and line functions. Board
members are appointed by the Council of Ministers from among public
administrators, with experience in the financial sector either in banking
or public sector finance. As nationalized entities, the total equity of
the banks is held by the Treasury. More details on the organization and
operations of each of the PFIs are found in the Project File.
6.06      Based on the Bank's experience under the SKI projects as well as
our recent review of their textile appraisal reports, the overall standard
of the PFIs' project appraisal is generally satisfactory. Their appraisal
reports are usually of good quality (with the level of details and depth
increasing with the size of projects), although there are variations from
report to report depending on the staff and regional office involved. The
financial standards maintained by the PFIs for their lending are reasonably
stringent, and their appraisal reports/loan agreements contain specific
relevant covenants for the financial rehabilitation of existing enterprises
when appropriate. A most critical common weakness in the appraisal is
however the market evaluation. This is now being addressed in part with



- 28 -
the macro and sectoral supply/demand information which is becoming
available from the subsectoral surveys/analyses undertaken by MIE and
specialized trade associations. Improvements in this area would also come
from more consistent verification of the market information presented in
the appraisal reports with relevant marketing sources (e.g., International
Trade Center (ITC), specialized consulting firms). For the textile
investment projects, the PFIs are being encouraged (via incentives provided
within the proposed project) to seek more specialized advice to improve
their analyses of market competitiveness and prospects. Another area for
improvement is the technical appraisal. At present, the five PFIs have 13
competent mechanical and chemical engineers with some experience in the
textile industry. In addition, 2 PFIs are regularly using qualified
consultants for appraisal of textile subprojects. The PFIs have taken
steps to improve the textile knowledge of their engineering staff through
attendance at special courses and seminars organized by the Universities of
Minho and Beira. Some PFIs have also recruited additional technicians with
textile experience. The PFIs have agreed in the context of the proposed
project to increase utilization of external textile specialists to
complement and provide on-the-job training for their own technical staff.
Measures for future technical improvements have been discussed and agreed
with the PFIs during appraisal, and will be followed up during project
supervision (e.g., training and hiring of staff as needed, closer
collaboration with trade associations and technical departments of
universities).
6.07      Quality of PFIs' Portfolio.  As detailed in the Project File,
during the last several years, the percentage of the PFIs' non-performing
loans (i.e., overdue, arrears and bad debt) tended to decline from a range
of 12-18% in 1978 to about 8-10% in 1982, except for CGD for whom the
percentage has remained at about 3% over the same time period. The loan
performance data for the industrial sector and the textile subsector
available only for CGD (Annex 6-3) show that about 71% of bad debts on the
CGD portfolio correspond to loans extended to industry. Bad debts among
loans to the textile subsector represent 9% of CGD's total bad debts at the
end of 1982, which is a high percentage if one considers the low (1.6%)
share of total CGD portfolio represented by textiles. Textile bad debts as
a share of the CGD's textile loan portfolio were 3.7% in 1982 which is such
higher than the CGD average.  It is nevertheless an improvement over the
4.5% share of bad debt in textile loans at the end of 1979, although it has
increased slightly from the end of 1981 (3.4%). The performance of loans
extended to textile enterprises should improve as the restructuring program
for the textile subsector would in time yield a significant improvement in
the financial condition of the enterprises.
C. The MIE/Textile Review Unit
6.08      To maintain a global view of and coordinate the future
development of the textile industry, the MIE will maintain a Textile Review
Unit (TRU) to be located within the MIE. The main activities of the TRU
will be to: (i) monitor the impact of the overall restructuring program;
(ii) carry out studies for improving subsector performance such as in the
areas of marketing, energy conservation, environmental control, etc.; and
on this basis, (iii) develop a textile information system for use by the



- 29 -
banks and the enterprises. In particular, the TRU will also collaborate
with the PFIs to review the overall nature and direction of the
restructuring investments being financed by the PFIs (as detailed in paras
7.03-7.06). In all the activities above, the TRU will coordinate with
existing institutions with relevant expertise. The TRU will have a basic
core of two full-time textile specialists who are the MIE staff currently
working on the draft Textile Development Plan. To strengthen its present
technical abilities, the TRU would be assisted by textile consultants to be
financed under the project (para 5.10). The TRU will report to an
interministerial Textile Committee (TC) which would meet twice a year to
instruct the TRU in its activities, review its findings and
recommendations, and make policy adjustment as needed. The TC would
consist of representatives of the MIE, the Textile Institute, the
Industrial Planning Department of the MIE, the Ministry of Finance and
Planning/Treasury, and the Ministry of Labor. The documentation to
formalize the TRU (including designation of its core staff and
responsibilities according to the principles above) has been reviewed
during negotiations and found satisfactory.
D. The Bank of Portugal
6.09      The Bank of Portugal (BdP) has the usual powers of a central
bank, including the setting of mandatory reserve requirements, maximum
interest rates and credit ceilings (paras 2.11 and 2.12). It finances
credit institutions through its rediscount facilities. Under the Bank's
SMI I and II projects,17/ BdP acted on behalf of the Government as
the apex organization in channeling the funds to the PFIs. This
arrangement proved very satisfactory and is used under the proposed loan
(para 7.06).
E. The MIE/Textile Institute
6.10      The Textile Institute (TI) is an autonomous public agency
supervised by the MIE. It has been effective in monitoring textile
inport/exports, negotiating and administering textile trade agreements,
establishing product quality standards and carrying out necessary
laboratory testing. The TI on delegation from the MIE and in collaboration
with other relevant training institutions (e.g. University of Minho), would
administer the training elements included in the proposed project (para
7.22). More detailed discussion of TI and the training facility is found
in Annex 6-4.
VII. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A. Textile Restructuring Credit Line
7.01      Design Features.  The proceeds of the proposed credit line would
be channeled through the BdP to the PFIs for financing textile investment
17/ All nine commercial banks, CGD, BFN, and SPI participate in these
projects.



- 30 -
projects. These investment projects will need to meet the following
restructuring eligibility criteria:
(a) At least 50% of the credit line amount would finance investment
projects belonging to the following higher priority textile
activities: manufacturing of woven and knitted garments, making
up of household articles, and textile processing activities such
as dyeing, printing and finishing. These higher priority
investment subprojects should have an investment cost per job
created/maintained not to exceed US$10,000 for garment making,
and US$45,000 for textile processing and knitting activities.
(b) The balance of the credit line would finance investment projects
in spinning and weaving subject to the following conditions:
(i) for spinning, no new additional capacity would be financed;
no equipment older than 20 years would be rehabilitated and
replacement of existing facilities would be financed only if
the resulting productivity improvements for labor and
equipment would allow productivity levels 18/ higher than
those prevailing in EEC (para 7.04);
(ii) for weaving, no equipment older than 20 years would be
rehabilitated, and all new or modernized looms should have a
minimum width of 190 cm and be able to operate above 200
picks per minute; and
(iii) for both spinning and weaving, the investment cost per job
would not exceed the current costs of jobs in the EEC for
similar activities (para 7.04).
(c) All investment projects should be financially and economically
viable with a financial rate of return to be at least 12% for all
subprojects, and an economic rate of return to be at least 12%
for project with investment cost above US$1.0 million. The
ex-factory price should be at most equal to the border price EEC
for the main products of investment projects. In case of
investment projects involving forward integration for an existing
enterprise, the transfer price for the main products to be used
in the downstream operations equal to the border price EEC woild
be used in calculating the economic rate of return (para 7.,4).
(d) All investment projects to set up new production units/
enterprises should show labor and machine productivity
levels 19/ commensurate to the levels in the EEC for similar
products (para 7.04), and in the case of existing enterprises,
investment projects should show the productivity improvements and
cost savings for the enterprise as a whole.
18/ Such as kg output/operator hour for spinning.
19/ Such as km or weft yarn inserted/operator hour for weaving, and meters
of fabrics processed/operator hour for dying, printing and finishing.



- 31 -
(e)  The investor (particularly in the case of existinj enterprises)
should accept to undertake an appropriate technical assistance
program as a condition of the subloan when considered necessary
by the FFI (para 7.04).  This program should contain clearly
established objectives, scope of actions, targets for the
expected performance improvements and timetable for
implementation and monitoring of the action programs.
(f) The minimum of investor's own funds 20/ in the investment
project should be 30% of total investment costs in the case of a
new company; in the case of expansion or rehabilitation, own
funds should initially be at least 20% of the total assets
(excluding land) of the whole existing enterprise (including the
proposed investment project) to increase to 30% within 3 years of
investment completion.2i/ Investor's own funds is defined as
paid-in share capital plus retained earnings plus investor's
personal loans. These investor's personal loans would not exceed
30% of the total own funds and would be subordinated to all other
enterprise debts, and could be serviced only: ti) after
principal, interest, and other charges on enterprise debts have
been fully serviced, including arrears, and (ii) after such
payment, investor's own funds are not less than 30% of total
assets. These investor's personal loans could not be prepaid or
accelerated so long as any amount due on all other debt remains
outstanding.
7.02      The eligibility criteria (a) and (b) are designed to address the
need to reorient the present production capacity structure towards textile
activities where Portugal has a comparative advantage and export potential
(para 3.19), while still catering to the upgrading need of the other
textile activities (paras 3.18-3.20). Criteria (c) through are to help
improve the productivity and competitiveness of the enterprises.
Criterion (f) aims to correct the financial structure of the enterprises
(see also para 7.04 below).
7.03      Implementation.  In brief, the proposed credit line would be
implemented by the PFIs, MIE/TRU and BdP. The primary responsibility rests
with the PFIs who would identify, appraise, approve eligible subprojects
for financing (subject to the Bank's prior review for certain categories as
indicated in para 7.05 below), identify their technical assistance need as
appropriate, and supervise their implementation. The TRU would review the
FFIs' subproject reports to obtain a global view of and monitor the
subsector restructuring program, as well as keep records of the
disbursement of TTA grants (para 7.22). The BdP would centralize the
administration of the textile credit line and keep accounts on the approved
subloans.
20/ Special reserves resulting from the revaluation of assets according to
fiscal laws (which takes place from time to time) would be included.
21/ This is defined to be the date at which commercial production related
to the investment project can start.



- 32 -
7.04      The PFI would be responsible for identifying and appraising
textile investment projects in accordance with the criteria spelled cii? in
para 7.01 above. The subproject appraisal report will cover all technical,
managerial, marketing and economic aspects, as well as the financial
position and performance of the subproject and its sponsors.22/ In this
context, the PFI should be guided by the following financial targets:
(a) the current ratio for the enterprise (including the investment project)
should not be less than 1.2 to be achieved within 3 years of investment
completion; and (b) the debt-service ratio for the enterprise (including
the investment project) should not be less than 1.2 to be achieved within 3
years of investment completion. The calculation of financial and economic
rates of return required for all subprojects will be carried out according
to the Bank's guidelines 23/ and will be presented in the subproject
appraisal reports. In addition to the above eligibility criteria and
performance target guidelines, the investment cost estimate for the textile
subprojects should include appropriate physical and price contingencies (on
average, expected to be up to about 20% of the value of civil works,
equipment and other services) to allow for possible changes in
construction, cost increase due to inflation and/or unexpected delays in
project implementation. The PFI would also be responsible, with assistance
from specialized consultants when needed (para 5.10), for verifying the
output prices, productivity levels and cost per job proposed for the
subprojects with corresponding EEC levels (para 7.01(b)(i) and (iii), (d),
and (e)); for ensuring that the appropriate procurement procedures are
followed when relevant (para 7.07); and for assessing the technical
assistance need of the subprojects during :heir subproject appraisal and
incorporating it in the subproject appraisal report. The PFI would refer
the enterprises to select from the approved list of textile consultants
(para 7.17) for implementation when need for such services is indicated.
Should the PFI feel that these actions are essential for the success of the
subproject, an appropriate technical assistance program would be made a
condition of the subloan agreement by the PFI. In its monitoring of the
subprojects, the PFI would ensure that the agreed action program is
properly implemented by the textile borrowers.
7.05      The PFIs alone would decide whether to finance a textile project
using the proceeds of the Bank credit line and their own resources as
appropriate. The PFIs will bear the credit risk for the totality of credit
granted to the enterprises. For existing enterprises, the financial
covenants, when imposed by the PFIs in their loan agreement, will cover
both the Bank's subloans and the PFIs' portion of the credit granted. In
view of the complex nature of the restructuring exercise and in order to
allow meaningful Bank involvement in the subproject review for institution
building purposes, Bank staff would appraise jointly with PFI staff the
first 3 subprojects of each PFI regardless of investment size. If
satisfied with the PFI's textile appraisal quality, for each FFI
subsequently there would be a free limit set at US$1.25 million for review
and approval as follows:
22/ A comprehensive checklist for subproject appraisal, distributed to the
PFIs for reference, is available in the Project File.
23/ The -Guidelines for Calculating Financial and Economic Returns of DFC
Projects," by C. Hyde, June 25, 1982 (already given to the PFIs) is
available in the Project File.



- 33 -
(a) eligible subprojects with investment cost less than
US$1.25 million (to be called B-subprojects) would be appraised
and approved by the PFIs in accordance with the eligibility
criteria and standard guidelines provided in paras 7.01, 7.02 and
7.04 above. Promptly after its approval of a B-subproject, the
PFI would send: (i) a note (describing briefly the subproject
and listing the eligibility criteria which the subproject has
satisfied) 24/ to BdP who would convey on behalf of the Bank
formal authorization to withdraw from the credit line proceeds
for the B-subproject in question; and (ii) a copy of the
B-subproject dossier to che TRU for information. Every month,
BdP would send a list of these B-subprojects for information to
the Bank, which may request to review in detail with the PFI
concerned any of the listed B-subprojects during its periodic
supervision missions of the credit line; and
(b) eligible subprojects with investment cost greater than
US$1.25 million (to be called A-subprojects), the PFIs would
simultaneously send (i) one copy of the appraisal report (in
English or French) of these subprojects to the Bank for its
review and approval; and (ii) one copy to the TRU for its review
on the basis of no-objection within 15 days. This means that,
for the A-subprojects where the TRU may have questions or
reservations, these would be communicated within the 15-day
period mentioned above to the Bank, with copy to the concerned
FFI. After consultation with TRU when relevant, and upon
satisfactory review of the PFI's subproject appraisal, the Bank's
approval of these A-subprojects would be telexed to the PFI
concerned, as well as to TRU and BdP for information.
It is stressed that, as agreed during appraisal, the subproject review by
the TRU would be sector oriented, covering the scope and directions of the
restructuring efforts, rather than involving a detailed project-by-project
review and control. The objective is for the TRU to monitor the progress
of the restructuring program in general as well as of the proposed project
in particular (para 6.08). It is estimated that under the above subproject
review procedures, the Bank would closely review and directly approve at
least 50% of the total number of subprojects. If durii.6 the initial
subproject co-appraisal and/or subsequent subproject review process, the
textile appraisal quality of any PFI is not satisfactory to the Bank, that
PFI would take appr-priate remedial actions as agreed between the Bank and
that PFI. Until saAisfactory quality is shown, the Ban'- would continue to
require all subproject appraisal reports for its review and approval.
7.06      The responsibilities of BdP would be carried out by a small unit
(already designated during appraisal for the proposed textile credit line)
and will be to: (i) maintain an accounting system for subprojects for
which commitment of Bank funds is approved; (ii) request withdrawal of
funds from the credit line special account (para 7.08) and channel them to
the PFIs; (iii) prepare and send to the Bank a monthly statement of
expenditures requesting replenishment of the credit line special account;
24/ Format distributed to the PFIs is available in the Project File.



- 34 -
(iv) collect from the participating banks the payments of interest and
principal, and transfer these funds to the Treasury for servicing of the
Bank loan; (v) hold all documentation related to each subloan for
commitment and disbursement amounts as well as update them to take into
account possible increases or cancellations when the subprojects are
completed; and (vi) prepare the quarterly commitment/disbursement status
report for the credit line (para 7.09). The signing of an Agency Agreement
between the Government and BdP satisfactory to the Bank would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
7.07      Procurement Procedures for Subprojects.  When a subproject
involves the purchase of a single package of equipment with value equal to
or greater than US$1.0 million, the Bank's International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, with prior review by the Bank, will be followed
by the PFIs and enterprises. For equipment purchase valued at less than
US$1.0 million but more than US$200,000 at least three price quotations
will be obtained from qualified suppliers from more than one country.
Within this latter category the Bank's prior review would be required for
single packages exceeding US$500,000. Procurement of goods costing less
than US$200,000 equivalent would follow local competitive procedures of the
PFIs.
7.08      Disbursement Procedures for Subprojects.  A special account for
the credit line would be set up in a financial institution in the form of a
revolving account with ap initial deposit of US$3.6 mil'lion, to simplify
disbursements under the proposed credit line. In line with the procedures
currently used in the Bank's ongoing SKI credit lines, BdP would receive
from the PFIs documentation justifying expenses actually incurred for
approved subloans, the maximum amount of these subloans being 65% of the
corresponding total investment costs. BdP would verify, in collaboration
with TRU, when technical advice is needed that the documentation for these
expenses is satisfactory. The Bank would replenish the initial deposit of
US$3.6 million upon receipt of a certified monthly statement of
expenditures to be sent by BdP. No Bank reimbursement would be made for
expenditures made more than: (i) 90 days prior to the BdP's formal
withdrawal authorization for the subprojects in the cases under the free
limit; and (ii) 120 days prior to the Bank's date of receipt of the
subproject dossier, if the subprojects are above the free limit. The
estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed credit line is discussed
in para 7.14.
7.09        Audit Procedures.  The records and accounts maintained by BdP
for the credit line and the approved subprojects (para 7.06) would be
audited each fiscal year by the Audit Council of the BdP, which would
prepare a report certifying that the amounts received and paid by BdP for
the credit line and individual sub-loans together with the documentary
evidence used by BdP as basis for withdrawal of Bank funds are
satisfactory. This report will be sent to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year in question. The Bank has examined
the legal provisions establishing the Audit Council as well as the Internal
Audit Department, and found that this Council together with the staff
support from the Internal Audit Department do meet the normal standards of
independence from the entity under audit, suitable qualifications and
satisfactory experience.



- 35 -
7.10      Periodic Review of the Credit Line and Reporting Procedures.  The
PFIs would supervise the Bank-financed subprojects in terms of risk
assessment, eligibility and technical assistance, and BdP in terms of the
subloan disbursement. The TRU would collaborate with the PFIs and BdP to
prepare for the TC and the Bank a semi-annual restructuring report based on
an agreed sample of approved textile subprojects and corresponding data
provided by the PFIs and BdP. The format of this semi-annual report would
contain an analysis by: (i) the FFIs of the progress in project
implementation (e.g., construction, equipment installation, production,
financial covenants if any) for each subproject compared to the original
implementation schedule as proposed in the appraisal report, the problems
encountered by each subproject together with the status of their resolution
and the actual capacity utilization, sales, production costs, exports,
etc., of the enterprise as compared with tne projections made in the
appraisal report, and of the sub-borrower's repayment performance; (ii) the
BdP of the status of subloan commitment and disbursement; and (iii) the TRU
of the status of the incentives granted, the overall results and progress
of the restructuring exercise being implemented, and a review of the TRU's
own activities (para 6.08). In addition, every 3 months, BdP would prepare
for the Bank a short progress report presenting actual total commitment and
dirbursement by the PFIs under the credit line, to include any change in
the committed amount for each subloan.
7.11      Terms and Conditions of Bank Financing.  The Bank credit line
would finance up to 65% of the total investment cost of each eligible
textile subproject, this percentage being estimated as corresponding to the
maxinum foreign exchange component (direct and indirect) of the types of
investment eligible under the project. For all subprojects, the expected
average would be 50% of total investment costs. The terms of subloans
financed out of the proposed credit line would be in line with the
repayment ability of the investment enterprise, as determined by the PFIs.
Although the average term of subloan is expected to be about 7 years,
including a grace period of 1 to 2 years for principal repayment, subloan
terms may be up to 12 years including a grace period of up to 3 years. The
textile investors would pay to the EFIs the floating interest rate
applicable to similar medium-term credits available in Escudos (currently
32.5% and positive as discussed in para 2.12). The difference between this
onlending rate and the Bank's lending rate would be allocated as follows:
3.0% to the PFI, 0.5% to BdP, and the balance to an account to be set up
for the proposed project by the Treasury for the Government to cover the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks on subloans, as well as the
repayment of principal and interest related to the US$1.0 million of the
proposed loan allocated to technical assistance (para 7.17). In view of
the changing conditions now expected in the financial community (e.g.,
possibility of a decline in final lending rates and reduction in the
inflation rate in 1984), the Government has agreed to carry out by December
31, 1984 an analysis of the basis for allocating the above interest
differential, and after review with the Bank of the findings/conclusions of
such analysis, take the necessary measures to revise as needed these
allocation amounts (in particula,, the margin for PFIs which would need to
reflect their costs of intermediation under the proposed credit line, their
efficient use of resources, and the general economic conditions such as
inflation and investment risks). Finally, until the Government's draft



- 36 -
Textile Development Plan is enacted into law (para 5.03), the Government
has agreed that the PFIs would follow the principles of the agreed textile
eligibility criteria and appraisal standards in all their lending
operations for investment in the textile subsector. The PFIs have also
agreed to the principle above.
7.12      In January 1982, BdP has agreed to grant a credic ceiling
incentive to the PFIs utilizing Bank's credit lines, whereby a PFI's
monthly credit ceiling is adjusted by the amount of the credit line it used
during the previous month.25/ This credit ceiling incentive is considered
by the PFIs as a key factor in maintaining their interest in utilizing the
funds available under the Bank's credit lines. To ensure continued
interest from the PFIs in the proposed textile credit line, BdP has agreed
to maintain the credit ceiling incentive for this project. This has been
confirmed at negotiations.
7.13      Textile Restructuring Protocol.  All the above subproject
eligibility criteria, terms and conditions, the respective roles and
responsibilities of BdP, PFIs and TRU for implementation of the proposed
loan would be incorporated in a textile restructuring protocol, a draft of
which was discussed during negotiations. The signing of this protocol by
BdP, PFIs and MIE would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
7.14      Completion Dates and Disbursement Schedule.  The final date for
subproject submission and the closing date would be September 30, 1987 and
June 30, 1989 respectively, both dates already incorporating a 6-month
contingency. Based on the commitment experience of other credit lines and
the disbursement profiles for the industrial sector in Por.ugal, commitment
and disbursement estimates for the credit line component are given in
Annex 7-1.
7.15      Coordination Between the Proposed Credit Line and Ongoing
Projects. To ensure consistency in approach between the SMI II credit line
and the proposed textile restructuring line (para 5.03), the Government,
BdP and IARMEI have agreed during appraisal to: (i) apply the same textile
eligibility criteria, appraisal standards and procedures (as specified in
paras 7.01-7.04 above) in addition to the already agreed SMI II criteria;
and (ii) IAPMEI would become party to the textile protocol (para 7.13) only
when the funds under the SMI II credit line are fully committed, and would
then play an advisory role in the channeling of eligible SMI textile
subprojects originating from the banks which are not yet signatories to the
textile protocol, or who may not wish to become signatories to the protocol
(because they may not be prepared to incur the higher overhead costs
expected with such direct participation, paras 7.04-7.05). The Portuguese
authorities have agreed that, under these conditions, the SMI II protocol
25/ This incentive does not work counter to the Government's stabilization
program, because, although the Bank's credit line is not included in
the individual bank's credit ceiling, it is included in the overall
country credit ceiling; thus the sum of the individual bank credit
ceilings is set at a lower level than the country ceiling decided on
by BdP.



- 37 -
would be amended at the latest by date of effectiveness of the proposed
textile project, to reflect the textile restructuring eligibility criteria
guidelines and appraisal aspects (paras 7.01-7.04). Agreement was also
reached that IAFMEI would provide its SMI textile subprojects with
appropriate technical assistance through hiring, when needed, of
specialized textile consulting services from the same approved consultant
list mentioned in para 7.17 below to be paid out of its own consultant
budget, a principle already agreed in the context of the SMI II credit
line.
7.16      With regard to the coordination procedure for the Bank's BFN II
credit line, the Government and BFN have agreed that the BFN's loan
agreement would also be amended appropriately to reflect the same
principles and technical assistance arrangements as outlined above for
IAPMEI. However, due to the slow utilization of the BFN II loan, it is not
likely BFN would become a PFI under the proposed project.
B. Technical Assistance Component
7.17      Technical Assistance for the Enterprises.  As described in
para 5.09, US$0.8 million would be available to all investment projects
eligible for Bank financing, when a specific technical assistance action
program is assessed by the PFIs as necessary for the successful
implementation of the proposed investment projects, and/or performance
improvements to be achieved by the enterprises (para 7.04). These funds
would be disbursed from a technical assistance (TA) special account
(para 7.22) and be used to obtain technical services for the
preparation/design of their investment projects, elaboration and
implementation of specific action program aimed at improving the
productivity and/or financial performance of the enterprises. The cost of
these textile technical assistance services is estimated to be on average
3% of the total investment cost of the subproject. The TA special account
would contribute, as a grant, 50% of this cost subject to a maximum total
limit of US$20,000 per subproject, with the investor paying for the balance
(with own or borrowed funds). Budgetary requirement may not be needed to
cover these TA grants given to enterprises, because they would be covered
by the 1.25% of the interest payments made by the textile enterprises
financed under the proposed credit line fparas 7.11 and 7.18).  Because the
local consulting industry does not yet have adequate textile advising
experience, foreign consulting firms would be selected jointly by the
Government and Bank staff 26/ according to Bank's guidelines to establish
an approved list from which the beneficiary enterprises can choose or be
referred to by the PFIs to obtain the needed technical assistance. To
induce further development of the Portuguese textile consulting industry,
the selection of consulting firms would give extra weight to foreign firms
with satisfactory arrangements of collaboration and/or joint venture with a
Portuguese company.  It was agreed at negotiaLions that this list of
approved consultants would be finalized and available by October 31, 1984.
7.18      Technical Assistance for the TRU.  The TA special account would
also finance the US$0.2 million technical services to assist the TRU in
26/ Preparation work to invite interested firms is under way.



- 38 -
setting up an information system to monitor the implementation of the
textile restructuring program in general and the proposed project in
particular and carry out necessary studies for improving sector performance
(e.g., market studies). The costs of these services would also be
recovered through the 1.25% of the interest payments as described in para
7.17. Analysis shows that these payments would be sufficient to repay the
US$1.0 million over the life of the Bank loan to the Government. It is
envisaged that there would be one man-year of general textile expertise
available on a part-time basis to support the TRU staff over the 1984-87
period. This general expert would be strengthened whenever necessary with
a total of 12 man-months of services from specialized textile experts for
specific subsectoral issues. The draft terms of reference and timetable
for the assignment for these technical assistance services have been
finalized during negotiations (Annex 7-2). It was agreed that the
timetable for the consulting assignment would specify that the first work
session with TRU will take place not later than October 31, 1984.
7.19      The PFIs would use the above approved list of consulting firms
and/or would call on the services of other qualified consultants
to help them in their technical appraisal and procurement for the
subprojects (para 7.04).
C. Training Component
7.20      The MIE/TI would coordinate with existing relevant institutions
(Ministry of Labor, universities, technical/vocational schools) to carry
out the training study. The draft terms of reference for the study was
finalized during negotiations (Annex 7-3). The study would be initiated by
October 31, 1984 and its recommendations expected to be available by
May 30, 1985 for review by the Government and Bank. Orders for the
equipment for the TI's laboratories and University of Minho would be placed
by May 1,1985 (lists in Annex 7-4). The draft proposals for advanced
training of the Government staff involved in textiles (para 5.10) would be
finalized by June 30, 1984. Disbursements for this component would be as
described in para 7.22 below.
7.21      Procurement.  The above equipment would be purchased according to
normal Government procurement practices, which have been found satisfactory
to the Bank.
7.22      Disbursement Procedures for the TA and Training Components.  The
TA special account would be set up in a financial institution in the form
of a revolving account to simplify disbursements for the TA and training
components. Of the total US$1.6 million allocated to these two components,
this TA special account would receive an initial deposit of US$160,000.
(a)  The US$800,000 allocated to cover the TA services for approved
subprojects would be disbursed by the Treasury based on the
technical assistance action program included in the subproject
reports prepared by the PFIs and/or the subloan agreements signed
between the PFIs and the beneficiary enterprises. Disbursements
from the special account would be at 50% of the TA costs or up to
a total of US$20,000 per subproject on presentation of actual



- 39 -
invoices submitted by the beneficiary enterprises via MIE/TRU,
with copy to the sponsoring FFI for information. The Government
has agreed to allow promptly the necessary foreign exchange
conversion for the beneficiary enterprises to pay the balance of
the technical assistance costs.
(b)  The US$200,000 of technical assistance to the TRU, would be
disbursed by the Treasury from the TA special account at 100% of
the costs on presentation of actual invoices submitted by the
consultants via MIE/TRU.
(c)  The total of US$600,000 allocated for the training component
would be disbursed from the TA special account at 100% of the
costs, on presentation of actual invoices submitted by the
MIE/TI.
7.23        The total of US$1.0 million allocated for the TA component
(parts (a) and (b) above) is expected to be disbursed over the 3-year
commitment period of the proposed project (para 7.14). The Bank would
replenish the initial US$160,000 deposit in the TA special account upon
receipt of a monthly statement of expenditures to be sent by the Treasury
for all contracts under US$10,000 equivalent in foreign exchange or
US$20,000 equivalent in local expenditures; full documentation would be
necessary for contracts with values in excess of the above limits. The
MIE/TRU would keep all records for review by the Bank's supervision
missions. This TA special account would be audited every year by an
independent auditor whose report would be sent to the Bank within 4 months
of the end of the year. The opening of both the special accounts for the
credit line (para 7.08) and TA (para 7.22) will be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
8.01      Benefits and Policy Impact.  This is the first Bank loan
designed to address subsector restructuring in Portugal. The major benefit
expected from the proposed project is that it would help initiate the much
needed restructuring program for the textile industry in Portugal. In this
sense, the most important benefit of the proposed project would be
help the Government develop a coherent restructuring framework to guide the
Portuguese textile enterprises in their performance and profitability
improvement. The Ministry of Industry and Energy has prepared a new draft
Development Plan for the subsector elaborating alternative restructuring
scenarios which are consistent with comparative advantage considerations.
The Government and financing institutions have agreed with the set of
textile restructuring criteria formulated for the proposed project which
provide the technical and financial guidelines for efficient restructuring
of the subsector. The Government is currently thinking of abolishing the
existing cumbersome and overgenerous investment incentives system, and
agreed to work out in the context of the project new proposals for more
effective, fiscal based incentives. The specific proposals for textile
restructuring would be incorporated in the final draft legislation



- 40 -
implementing the Textile Development Plan for Government's consideration by
December 31, 19B4.
8.02      The project would also have important institution-building
effects on the financing institutions (in line with the efforts ongoing
under the Bank's SMI credit lines), particularly in terms of strengthening
their capacity for viable long-term textile financing based on better
project analysis and follow-up. The technical assistance component and,
more importantly, the financing arrangements as designed, should help
promote more responsible involvement in the technical assistance program
from the entrepreneurs themselves. In addition, the broad-based technical
assistance delivery approach proposed should help develop the domestic
textile management consulting capabilities, thus further encouraging
private initiatives to achieve a successful restructuring exercise. The
technical assistance for the Textile Review Unit is another key element of
the institution-building efforts of the project. It should strengthen the
existing Government ability to monitor the restructuring program and help
formulate effective policy adjustments to ensure its successful
implementation.
8.03      Risks.  The major risk involved in the proposed project is the
potential slow utilization of funds by the participating financial
institutions, in spite of their commitment to the objectives of textile
restructuring in general and of the proposed project in particular. First,
the PFIs may be less active because of the current interest rate structure
and credit ceiling policy of the Bank of Portugal. To minimize this risk,
care has been taken to provide the participating banks with sufficient
incentive to use the Bank funds:   the subproject review, approval,
procurement and disbursement procedures are kept streamlined while still
allowing for the Bank's involvement; also, the Bank of Portugal's credit
ceiling incentive would be maintained for the PFIs. Second, the PFIs may
be less successful in their investment promotion because the present
investment climate may be worse than expected, thus depressing further the
rate of textile investment. This risk should be reduced somewhat by the
very conservatively estimated amount of the credit line. The TA grants to
assist companies in preparing market-oriented, viable restructuring
programs should help ensure that the optimal decisions are taken in
investments. Another risk relates to the fact that implementation of the
needed restructuring approaches as well as technical assistance/training
actions are complex and may be more difficult than expected. The intensive
supervision which the Bank intends to give to the subprojects should help
the participating banks better appraise and coordinate the design features
of individual restructuring cases, and thus, help limit the above risk.
Serious disruptions and/or departures in the implementation of the project
objectives should also be avoided with the monitoring and coordination
arrangements set up for the Textile Review Unit. The proposed project
would lay the foundation for a necessarily long-term and complex
restructuring process supported by sound policy actions for an important
industry. In this context, the above risks are judged to be acceptable
with the safeguards provided.



- 41 -
IX. AGREEMENTS
9.01      The following would be conditions of effectiveness for the
loan:
(a) the Agency Agreement satisfactory to the Bank to be executed on
behalf of the Government and the Bank of Portugal (para 7.06);
(b) a protocol (or financing agreement) to be signed by Banco de
Portugal, MIE and the participating financial institutions
identified to date. This agreement would spell out all
principles and procedures listed in paras 7.01-7.14 in accordance
with the draft discussed during negotiations (para 7.13); and
(c) the special accounts for the credit line and technical
assistance/training be opened in a financial institution (para
7.23).
9.02      Agreement was also reached on the following points:
(a) that the final draft legislation to implement the Textile
Development Plan, incorporating the restructuring incentive
proposals to be developed in collaboration with the Bank, be
submitted by MIE by December 31, 1984 for consideration by the
Government (paras 4.03 and 5.03);
Cb) that the Textile Review Unit set up within the MIE have the
agreed staffing and responsibilities (para 6.08);
Cc) that appropriate subproject procurement, disbursement, audit of
the credit line special account, and reporting procedures be
followed (paras 7.07-7.10);
(d) that until the above textile legislation is enacted
(para 9.02(a)), the PFIs follow the principles of the textile
restructuring eligibility criteria, guidelines and appraisal
standards as established for the proposed project for all their
textile restructuring investment financing (para 7.11);
(e) that the Government carry out by December 31, 1984 an analysis of
the basis for allocating the differential in the interest rate
charged by the Bank and the on-lending rate and, after review
with the Bank, revise as needed the allocated amounts, in
particular the PFIs' margin (para 7.11);
(f) that the BdP maintain the credit ceiling incentive for the
proposed project (para 7.12);
(g) that the approved list of textile consultants for use by eligible
enterprises be established by MIE and available by October 31,
1984 (para 7.17);



- 42 -
(h) that the technical assistance services for the TRU be available
according to the discussed terms of reference and schedule
(para 7.18);
(i) that the training component be carried out according to the
discussed terms of reference, schedule and procedures (paras 7.20
and 7.21); and
(j) that the Treasury would disburse for the textile technical
assistance grants to eligible enterprises, TRU, and the training
component from the TA special account and keep records of this
account which would be appropriately audited (para 7.22).
9.03      Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$34.7 million.
Industry Department
April 1984



POR1UGAL
TEXTILE RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Textile Industly Production Balance
_   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I tXTLE IMAM tRY SOCtjrit" WANCE (i lae)                                      |1974  
ULIASECtOR            tE                     N                              FABC              mIcUPRnCLS            OESnCM Ii
Am YOMl
2wo                  ~~~~~mcoh          AS Lt&4jp Altb6
MVWS          ~~~~~Al itirs    ContrwmzaA Flin                                              3500                 ODIO
1W410 IS  M0.650   Yawn 14ran
IZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Fabri MIAMI }          3                              3
_               4~~~MFb  -18450_
WAPMeClh   i0MM              making-up
Spun Ycxn                    UbE  bhv    101               Secio
209 10                       ava          jca7.0
PROOMMN                                As _0tens _                   IkI"Kfh"I    251                                     __
M130                                              Rope Atetbrc.  28, I                     I      I   9*_l
Ihw 1T50
Mau          161 11.*,                                                            . 
hy l                       * Capl s*iU
ShAi   Pkg -   C    kOAMO ft*jct . Repor No 3809
-om  19M4



URIW.AL - ThFILE INJSiRY REsnJCREDG  FiCr
Producticn, Lqports, Exports and Apparent Conumption of Taxiles, 1973-02
('OOO m torn)
Rate
1976-2
1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981           1982       (2)
Production a/
Inports oTf Fibers                   271.1   200.6   151.2   194.6   204.4   160,1   203.3   215.2    194.9           194.5
Plus: Producticn of Hanmade Fibers    26.8    14.2    10.6    15.8    22.1    30.2    35.1    34.6         39.3        40.0
Total                             297.9   214.8   161.8   210.4   226.5   190.3   238.4   249.8    234.2          234,5
Less: Exports of Fibers bl             3.8      2.2     3.8      4.0      1.2     3.5     5.2      4.8      11,2       11.5
Projctim                          294.1   212.6   158.0   206.4   225.3   186.8   233.2   245.0    223.0           22,       1.2
iports (Not)
Tbtal Tiports                         307.2   239.2   174.1   226.4   236.7   187.1   234.9   259.5    233.5          232.9
ness: Imports of Fibers              271.1   200.6   151.2   194.6   204.4   160.1   203.3   215.2    194.9           194.5
liports (Nat)                      36.1    38.6    22.9    31.8    32.3    27.0    31.6    44.3    -38.6           -M.T      3.2
Exports (Nat)                                                                                                                              4
Total Exports                         176.3   167.3   123.9   121.2   118.5   138.8   162.2   155.5    168.6          183.8
les:   ports of Fibers b/              3.8      2.2      3.8     4.0      1.2     3.5      5.2     4.8      11.2       11.5
Exports (Net)                      172.5   165.1   120.1   117.2   117.3   135.3   157.0   150.7    157.4          172.3     6.4
4vpRat Copcicn
PromLctiln                            294.1   212.6   158.0   206.4   225.3   186.8   233.2   245.0    223.0          233.0
Plus: Imports (Nat)                   36.1    38.6    22.9    31.8    32.3    27.0    31.6    44.3          28.6       38.4
Ibtal                              330.2   251.2   180.9   238.2   257.6   213.8   264.8   289.3    261.6          271.4
less: Exports (Not)                   172.5   165.1   120.1   117.2   117.3   135.3   157.0   150.7    157.2          172.3
Apparent Cm    tin                1577      86.1 6 0 .8  1MIT    140.3    7.5   1 07.8   138.6    189.1    (5.2)
Poplatien ('000)                     9,271.0 9,348.0 9,426.0 9,501.0 9,577.0  9,798.0  9,877&0  9,967.0  [0,067.7c/ 10,167.30/   1.1
Apparent Conmption Per Capita (kg)       17.0     9.2     6.5    12.7    14.6       8o      10.9    13.9      10.3        87     (7.0)
(Op_ing iwnwtory Is asuad to be eq ul to clasLng Invtory.
,/ Exports ef flbacs in 1978 are eadeted.
/ Fatited.
bwrns:  Tiutitute of Textlles; World Bank Atlas, 1980; World Tibles, 198); Taxtlla Orgam, various lsaes; an staf estites.
JrIstry Dapartnut
Mrdh 1984



-45-                            ANNEX 3-3
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Exports and Imports by Textile Products (1982)
Exports             Imports             Balance
TRTaj      MCa/        TMT       MC         T         MC
Fibers              11.5        1.1       194.5      23.8    (183.0)   (22.7)
Yarns               23.7       6.4         22.1       7.7       1.6      (1.3)
Woven Fabrics       25.6       13.9         9.0       7.7      16.6       6.2
Knitwear            22.1      25.6          1.3       2.1      20.8      23.5
Garments            17.0      25.3          0.4       0.8      16.6      24.5
Other Productsc/   83.9       22.6          5.6       2.6      78.3      20.0
Total           183.8      94.9        232.9     44.7       49.1d/   50.2
a/ Thousand Metric Tons
b/  Million Contos; in 1982 one Conto - US$13.
if/ Mainly household articles and cordage.
t/ plus domestic man-made fiber production - 40 TMT.
Source:  Instituto dos Texteis.
Industry Department
March 1984



POKI1:AL - TEXrE DIUSWY RESCIUREG PMD=JEC
Portugal's Utilization of EEC Mielle Qxotas
1979              1980               1981              1982                1983
Cat.      Iten a/             lhits       b/  Ac/%d/               A    Z            A    X            A      %      9    Ae/ X f/
1  (ottci Yarns              'Off/   12.0  10.4   13  12.4  7.5  40    12.7  7.2  43    13.0  8.3   36   13.3   3.9   50
2  Cotton Fabrics             DIM       7.0   6.6     6   7.2  4.1  40    7.4  3.6  51    7.9  6.3   20    8.1   3.8   30
3  Hui-made Fabrics           iT      6.8   5.4   21   6.9  3.6  48    7.1  3.9  45    7.4  4.6   38    7.6   2.8   45
4  Knitted Underwar wtlh/    35.9  38.0   (6)  37.2  38.5  (3)  38.5  39.6  (3)  41.8  43.7   (5)  43.9  23.8   19
5  Knitted Outerear          MP       11.2   9.8   12  11.8  12.5  (6)   17.5  12.5   0    13.9  24.3   (3)   14.6   7.6   22
6  Man's & Boys' Trousena    MP        5.2   4.1   21    5.4  3.2  41    5.6  3.6  36    2.8i/ 2.3   18    3.01i/ 1.4   30
7  l&mnts 6 Girls' Blouses  MP         2.2   2.7  (23)  2.3  2.2    4    2.4  2.1  12    3.4  2.8   18    3.5   1.2   49
8  1I-n's & Boys' aiirts      MP       6.6   7.3  (16)  6.9  6.5    6    7.2  5.6  22    7.7  7.9   (3)   8.1   4.3   20
20  Ibusehold l'xtiles        IMfI      6.4   6.8   (6)  6.8  6.1  10    6.9  7.2  (4)   7.5  9.1  (21)   8.0   4.1   23
33  Other Huin-mde Textiles   I         4.3   4.7   (9)  4.5  2.9  36    4.8  3.3  23    5.1  3.2   37    5.5   1.3   64
a/ Within 10C, itema  in categpries 2 and 3; 2 or 3 vs. 20; 4, 5, 7; 6 and 8; and 33 and 90; are interchmnlable; tire are also within 
each category carry-fonxard and advanced shipwaet provisions.
/ Qjota.
c/ Actual shipots.
j( 2 Ixlcw or (above) the quota.
e/ First eight mxths of 1983.
f/ Projected over 12 mxths.
/ lmhand uetric tons.
h/ Hillion pieces.
/ Qiota for the lK oaly.
Sourc: Instituto dos TexteLs.
Lmiustry Departant
Mardi 1984



-47 -                                  AMNEX 3-5
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Projections of Import, Export and Domestic
Consumption of Textiles - 1982-93
(Thousand Metric Tons)
Annual
Growth
1982        1986         1993        1982-93
Production a/                                 223.0        229.7       289.5          2.6%
Imports b/                                     38.4         43.5        81.1          7.8%
Population c/                                  10.2         10.6        11.4          1.0Z
Consumption per Capita d/                       8.7          9.0         10.7         2.0%
Domestic Consumption                           89.1         95.4        122.0         3.2%
Exports                                       172.3        178.6       256.6          4.0%
a/  Based on mill consumption and assuming GDP growth per capita of -0.5
for 1983; -1.5 for 1984; 2.0 for 1985; and 3% in 1986-93.
b/  Growing at the 1976-82 rate (3.2X p.a.) until 1993 reaching 73Z of the
domestic consumption in 1993, in line with the average for EEC
countries; excluding import of fibers.
c/ Growing at the rate of 1.0% p.a. (million).
a/ Assuming 0.85 elasticity of demand in the 1976-80 period.
Source:  FAO:  World Apparel Fiber Consumption Survey, 1983.
Industry Department
March 1984



PORIJGAL - MUIE IkUSflrY BESUCRJ               PRPECr
Banking System: Some Characteristics (as of end 1982)
MllUons of conmtos c/
[epoeitt
,  Nkt    =       Dbposits       =       Credit      No. of       No. of
Institutions                              Assets    Sigft   At notice   Total        granted    branches    employew
and tem                    b/
Caixa G'eral de D epaito        st..............o     576.7      141.8      286.2       428.0      379.0       283          8,482
Other savings and investment banks
Banro do Fonento Naional.oe...............         171.1        3.8       47.9        51.7     132.1         20            838
Credito Predial Pbrtu       u     ge...................    136.0  20.8    69.1       89.9       88.4         56          2,503
Muitepio Coral - CO. Economica de Lisboa             64.2       8.0       43.9        51.9      47.6         28          1,000
Comaercial banks a/
Banco Pbrtugues do AtIanticosee............    444.2          67.4      269.5      336.9      277.6        133          5,564
Banco Pinto & Sotto Mayor ..................      325.5       55.5      200.8      256.3      202.7        119          6,581
Banco Espirito Santo e Comercial de LlAsboa..    312.9         61.6      182.5      244.1      178.9        130          6,592
Banco  1acional Ultramarino..................    301.5         57.9      166.6      224.5      121.9        142          5,621
Lanco Borges & I nm                 a      o       278.3       38.8      191.7      230.5      178.9         93          4,369
Bunco Tbtta & ADoreSo.opooo*40..............       273.0       50.9      117.2       168.1     168.9        124          4,774
Uhkao de Bancos Pbrtugueses................., 183.2            37.8      120.2       158.0     104.9        118          4,358
Banco Fcnsecas &  Burnay*oeest.....ae........      166.5       40.4       96.9       137.3      94.3         98          4,026
Banco Comercial dbs Acores     r........es.......    11.5       3.3        6.5         9.8        6.3         12           42a
/Only nrtional banks.
b/ WithoLut deduction of provisions.
COnto - 1,000 escuidos.
Source: Bank of Portugal,
Industry Departmet
March 1984



P     .ER1JL - TMa1  INWUSI    RESgJCIwR     FJwcr
ys-M
Sectoral Credilt Outstanling by Term at Year-end 1978-82
E6c. (000,000)                               Percentages
19788/    1979     1980      1981        1982     1978a/  1979   1980   1981   1982
Ibtal Credit
< i year      380,315  457,335  557,127    719,638    825,953    68.1   61.3  58.3   54.1   49.7
1-5 years      74,982  106,281  133,784    2D9,622    303,581    13.5   14.2   14.0   15.8   18.3
> 5 years     102,847  182,751  264,293    400,428    532,202    18.4   24.5   27.7   30.1   32.0
558,144  746,367  955,204  1,329,688  1,661,736   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
- - -  = -    - - - --  % of Total
Credit Cutstandivn
Industrial                                                                                               1978P/  1979  1980  1981  1982
< I year      189,068  232,470  273,398    341,429    384,732    84.0   74.8   70.8   66.9   64.1    49.7   50.8  49.1  47.4  46.6                    
1-5 yeams      22,681   34,893   45,626      70,479     91,301    10.1   11.2   11.8   13.8   15.2    30.2   32.8  34.1  33.6  30.1
> 5 years      13,285   43,409   67,422      98,420    124,568      5.9   14.0   17.4   19.3   20.7    12.9   23.8  25.5  24.6  23.4
225,034  310,772  386,446    510,328    600,601   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    40.3   41.6  40.5  38.4  36.1
Textile
Kiu try                                                                                                        % of Total Credit
< 1 year       33,190   42,933   54,467      75,823     83,095    84.6   83.2   81.6   75.5   73.1       8.7    9.4   9.8  10.5  10.1
1-5 years       3,564    4,106    6,874      14,460     18,034     9.1    8.0   10.3   14.4   15.9       4.8    3.9   5.1   6.9   5.9
> 5 years       2,481    4,535    5,383      10,091      12,609     6.3    8.8    8.1   10.1   11.0      2.4    2.5   2.0   2.5   2.4
39,235   51,624   66,724    100,374    113,738   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0       7.0    6.9   7.0   7.5   6.8
X of Industrial Credit
<1 year      17.6   18.5  19.9  22.2  21.6             'a'
1-5 years    15.7   11.8  15.1  20.5' 19.8
>5 years     18.7  10.4   8.0  10.3  10.1                -x
a1  1978 figures exclude Investnint Banks,                                                                17.4   16.6  17.3  19.7  18.9
Source:  Banco de Fbrtugal, Boletim 'Mmstral.



EFORMAL - lORa  E SeX     REb1nRDUliRWNr  WECT
Carclal Banks
Sectorial Credit Outstandi,ng hY Term at Year-end 1978-82
E- (000,000)                             Percentages
1978    1979    1980    1981        1982     1978  1979  1980  1981   1982
Total Credit
< I year      346,045 408,503  493,211  650,262    744,458   88.4  86.0  83.4  79.0  74.4
1-5 years     40,817   53,843   73,654  122,232    170,457   10.4   11.3  12.5  14.8  17.0
> 5 years       4,723   12,849   24,188   51,246    86,014    1.2   2.7   4.1   6.2   8.6
391,585  475,195  591,053  823,740  1,000,929  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
- _   -s                 _* _2_---- % of Total
Credit Outstanding
Industrial                                                                                       1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Credit
< 1 year      179,086  213,526  245,791  311,823    348,066   91.2  88.6  86.2  82.5  79.8  51.8  52.3  49.8  48.0  46.8                   in
1-5 years      15,595  22,578   30,483   48,339     63,466    7.9   9.4  10.7  12.8  14.6  38.2  41.9  41.4  39.5  37.2                    0
> 5 years       1,797    4,948    8,923   17,791    24,655    0.9   2.0   3.1   4.7   5.6  38.0  38.5  36.9  34.7  28.7
196,4'78  241,052  285,197  377,953    436,187  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  50.2  50.7  48.3  45.9  43.6
Textile
Inkutr_y
< I year       32,972   42,512   53,138   73,531    79,967   91.8  91.7  88.3  82.1  79.6   9.5  10.4  10.8  11.3  10.7
1-5 years      2,706    3,021    5,493   12,456     15,672    7.5   6.5   9.1   13.9  15.6  6.6   5.6  7.5  10.2  9.2
> 5 years         224     838    1,583    3,556      4,818    0.7   1.8   2.6   4.0   4.8  4.7   6.5  6.5   6.9  5.6
35,902   46,371   60,214   89,543    100,457  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   9.2  9.8  10.2  10.9  10.0
Source:  Banco de lbrtugal, Eolatim Trimestral.
Ph%N
In&uwtry Department
Mhrdh 1984



-51                              ANNEX 6-3
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Caixa Geral de Depositos - Non-Performing Loans 1979-1982
Esc (000,000) and Percentages
1979       1980        1981       1982
Value                                  4,841       6,724      7,053      13,294
Overdue                                   0           0          0           0
Arrears                               4,096       5,897      6,036       9,820
Bad Debt                                745         827       1,017      3,474
x Composltion                          100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
Overdue                                   0           0          0           0
Arrears                                84.6        87.7       85.6        73.9
Bad Debt                               15.4        12.3        14.4       26.1
Z of Loan Portfolio                      3.0         3.0        2.4         3.4
Provision
Value                                   745         827      1,107       2,614
Z of Loan Portfolio                     0.5         0.4        0.3         0.7
- Arrears & Bad Debt                 15.4        12.3       14.4        19.7
- Bad Debt                          100.0       100.0      100.0        75.2
Bad Debt at Year-end 1979-82
Esc (000,000) and Percentages
1979    1980    1981    1982
Total Bad Debt                                    745     827   1,017   2,614
Sectoral Distribution
Industry                                       653      746     821   1,867
Agriculture                                      92      77      193     732
Housing                                           0       0        3       6
Other                                            0        4        0       9
Textile Industry
Value of Bad Debt                               184     183      191     235
% of Industrial Bad Debt                      28.1    24.5    23.2    12.6
Bad Debt by Age:                                184     183      191     235
< I year                                     184        0      19      164
1-5 years                                      -      183     172       71
> 5 years                                      _        _
Bad Debt as X of Sectoral Loan Portfolio
Agriculture                                    3.0      1.9     2.2    n.a.
Industry                                        1.1     1.0     0.9    n.a.
Textile Industry                               4.5      4.3     3.4      3.7
Source: CGD Financial Statements and data to mission.
Note:  Non-performing public sector, public enterprise or state-guaranteed
loans are maintained in arrears, not transferred to bad debt and not
provided against.
Industry Department
March 1984



-52-                            ANNEX 6-4
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I.  The Textile Institute
1.        The Textile Institute (TI) is primarily engaged in compiling
statistical data on export and import of textile articles, negotiating nad
administering of textile quotas under MFA and other bilateral agreements,
as well as issuing of import permits on behalf of the ministry of
Commerce. TI is also operating two laboratories (one in Oporto for cotton
and synthetic fibers and one in Covilha for wool), which are responsible
for establishing quality standards and testing of raw materials imported
and articles exported by the textile and garment industries (para. 20
below). TI is financed through special taxes paid by the manufacturers,
exporters, and importers of textile articles, based on their annual
revenues. This arrangement gives TI some degree of autonomy but as the
levies do not cover all the expenses and the difference is paid by the
Ministry of Industry, TI is subject to the same rules and regulations
(including salaries) which apply to Government employees. TI has a staff
of 400, including about 50 professionals. Because of the recent budget
restrictions, TI has difficulties however in recruiting and retraining well
qualified textile engineers, as there is practically no funds available for
training of personnel or modernization of the existing laboratory
facilities. TI plays a most important role for the textile industry in the
collection, diffusion of textile knowledge, and more importantly as
-spokesman for the subsector. Consequently, it is in the best interest of
the subsector that TI should be involved in the training and technical
assistance components of the proposed Bank project.
II. Textile Training Facilities
2.        Traditionally, high school level textile training was carried out
in Portugal in vocational schools and the last three years of the
curriculum in these schools was directed to teaching of trades including up
to 50% of practical experience. Following the 1974 revolution the
vocational training system has been changed and the students in the last
two grades (10 and 11)) have now an option of choosing either a vocational
or a general instruction program and usually eiect either the general
program which qualifies them for university entrance or other trades which
are believed to open better prospects for employment than the textile
industry. Currently.only-about 3% of the students take textiles as a
subject at any time during vocational training and less than 1% of the
students 1/ elect textiles as a career, in spite of the fact that the
industry accounts for 25% of the manufacturing jobs in the areas served by
the schools (Porto, Guimaraes and Covilha).
3.        Apart from the image of the textile industry which is perceived
to offer lower than average wages and limited career opportunities due to
the cyclical nature of the business, the other reasons for the low interest
1/ In 1981 only 18 students graduated in textiles.



- 53 -                          ANNEX 6-4
Page 2 of 2
in textile t;aining appear to be: (a) poor state of the training
facilities; tb) demoralization of the teaching staff as since 1975 the
schools have not been teceiving any funds for purchase of new or repair and
maintenance of the existing textile equipment; and (c) student interest in
the subject has been minimal and the textbooks not available.
4.        The postrevolutionary reforms established also university level
training for textile engineers at the University of Minho (UMG) in
Guimaraes and the University of Beira (UBC) in Covilba. Both universities
offer five-year courses in textile engineering and textile technology.
Both institutions have a competent teaching staff and are endowed with
suitable buildings but very few training facilities (although a recent
grant from USAID should materially improve the situation at UBC).  So far
the interest of university students in the textile courses offered by both
institutions has been minimal and in 1983 only 11 students will graduate,
or, one for each two faculty members. The figures indicate about 80%
attrition rate as compared with the initial enrollment, but on the whole
only 10-15% of the students leave university without degrees, it appears
that many students enroll in textiles as a way to gain admission and
subsequently switch as soon as more desirable courses become available.
The condition of the training facilities, lack of textbooks in Portuguese
and poor communications between the academia and industry are generally
held responsible for this state of affairs.
5.        The vocational schools as well as the universities are under
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education but there is very little
cooperation regarding sharing of the limited machinery, buildings,
laboratories and library facilities; the same applies to the textile
testing units of the Textile Institute even when training facilities are
situated in the same location.
6.        A successful restructuring program would require a continuous
inflow of skilled operators, mechanics, supervisors and engineers into the
sector. The present structure and practice of teaching textile subjects
results in grossly inadequate number of graduates at both vocational and
university level to meet the demands of the industry, particularly in view
of the imminent accession of Portugal to the EEC which is likely to result
in more demanding competitive environment and in order to increase the
output of skilled personnel a capital investment in textile training
infrastructure is indicated. However, before any expenditures are actually
made, a detailed study to develop a comprehensive training program is
required.
Industry Department
March 1984



- 54 -
ANNEX 7-1
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Projected Commitment and Disbursement Schedule l/
for the Credit Line Component
Calendar               Commitment (US$ million)   Disbursement (US$ million)
Year    Quarter       Quarterly   Cumulative        Quarterly  Cumulative
1984        TV              1.0          1.0               -           -
1985         I              3.0          4.0              0.5         0.5
II             3.0          7.0              1.0         1.5
III             4.0         11.0              1.5         3.0
IV             4.0         15.0              2.0         5.0
1986         I              4.0         19.0              2.0         7.0
II             4.0         23.0              2.0         9.0
III             4.0         27.0              3.0        12.0
IV             3.0         30.0              3.0        15.0
1987         I              2.0         32.0              3.0        18.0
II             0.5         32.5              3.0        21.0
III             0.5         33.0              3.0        24.0
IV              -            -               3.0        27.0
1988         I               -            -               2.0        29.0
II              -            -               1.0        30.0
III              -            -               1.0        31.0
IV              -            -               1.0        32.0
1989         I               -            -               0.5        32.5
II              _           _                0.5        33.0
Total     33.0                          33.0
NOTE: The above schedule is in accordance with past commitment experience
and disbursement profile for the industry sector in Portugal Actual
commitment and disbursement will depend on the response of the PFIs
and textile industry to the restructuring program. Furthermore, the
schedule is based on the assumption that the proposed project will
be considered by the Bank's Executive Directors in May 1984.
1/ The estimated disbursement schedule for the US$1.7 million Technical
Assistance and Training components is as follows: US$0.3 million in
1985, 0.8 in 1986; 0.4 in 1987; and 0.2 in 1988.
Industry Department
March 1984



_55                             ANNEX 7-2
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Consulting Services
to the Textile Review Unit (TRU)
A. Background
1.        The proceeds of the credit line provided by the Bank under the
proposed loan would be channeled through the participating financial
institutions (PFIs) to finance eligible textile subprojects.1/ The Bank
of Portugal would serve as the apex institution to monitor the
administration of the credit lines, keep account of the approved textile
subloans and channel disbursement and repayments on these subloans. To
monitor and coordinate the restructuring of the sector, a Textile Review
Unit will be established within the Ministry of Industry.
2.        The functions of TRU would be to (a) review the appraisal reports
of textile investment projects as already prepared by the PFIs and on the
basis of the information contained therein, develop a textile information
system regarding production capacities, costs and productivities,
consumption and export performance of each activity within the textile
sector; (b) monitor the implementation, progress and impact of the
Government's restructuring policies in general and of the proposed Bank
textile restructuring loan in particular; (c) identify and implement the
studies necessary for improving the sector performance.-
3.        TRU will require technical assistance in its work.  The cost of
technical assistance to TRU will be financed from the Textile Technical
Assistance Account. It is estimated that TRU will require the services of
an ex-2rienced international textile consulting company which would be
requiced to supply about two man-years of senior level consulting
assistance over the three year period of the commitment of the loan
(1984-87).
B. Manpower and Function of Technical Consulting Service
4.        It is envisaged that one of the above man-years will be available
on a part-time resident basis (e.g., one consultant to work in Lisbon with
TRU staff for a total of 5 months during the 1st year of the project
implementation, 4 months during the 2nd year and 3 months during the 3rd
year). This resident consultancy (RC) will begin about October 31, 1984.
The consultant will have an economic and technical educational background,
at least 15 years of -management experience in textile industry as well as
management consulting experience on both sector and project level.
Knowledge of Portuguese, French, or Spanish will be a definite asset. He
will be expected to be able to call on hie company, whenever necessary, to
obtain statistical data and specific production cost and price information,
as well as the services of the company's technical specialists familiar
1/ An attachment would be provided to the consultants, reproducing
eligibility criteria presented in paras 7.01 and 7.02.



- 56-                           ANNEX 7-2
Page 2 of 2
with specific segments of industry such as spinning, weaving, processing,
knitting and making-up. These specialized services will add up to the
second man-year of consulting requested.
5.        The RC will be responsible for helping the TRU staff in their
review of the subproject appraisal reports to see how the investment
proposals contained therein are consistent with the restructuring
guidelines set out for the textile industry. On the basis of data
contained in these subproject reports, the RC will also be responsible ior
assisting TRU in establishing an information system including data on past
and expected textile production capacities, costs and productivities,
consumption, exports and imports in Portugal as well as pertinent
up-to-date intelligence such as costs, prices, tariffs, quotas, and MFA
procedures in the export markets relevant to the Portuguese textile
sector. Theseinformation would be used by the RC to assist TRU in general
monitoring of the restructuring of the sector including the progress of
implementation of the Bank project, and preparing quarterly progress
reports for the Government and the Bank. The RC will also identify and
implement the necessary studies (productivity, costs, marketing, quality
control, waste management, etc.) for improving and maintaining the
competitiveness of the sector.
Industry Department
March 1984



-57                             ANNEX 7-3
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Textile Training Study
1.        A successful restructuring program would require a continuous
inflow of skilled operators, mechanics, supervisors and engineers into the
sector. The present structure and practice of teaching textile subjects
results in grossly inadequate number of graduates at both vocational and
university level to meet the demands of the industry, particularly in view
of the imminent accession of Portugal to the EEC which is likely to result
in more demanding competitive environment and in order to increase the
output of skilled personnel a capital investment in textile training
infrastructure is indicated. However, before any expenditures are actually
made, a detailed study to develop a comprehensive training program is
required.
2.        The study should include a review and make appropriate
recommendations for follow-up on the following points:
(a) the feasibility of discontinuing the teaching of textiles ant
vocational schools for day students and utilizing the manpower
and infrastructure resources for the more popular evening
courses;
(b) the possibility of sharing of the resources at the local level
between universities, vocational schools and the laboratories of
the Textile Institute to maximize the use of the existing
facilities;
(c) the institution of a program of soliciting the industry and major
suppliers of textile machinery to donate the required equipment
needed so as to reduce the amount of funds required for capital
investment;
(d)  review of the syllabi of the universities of UMG and UBC;
possibility of reducing the existing program from 5 to 3 years
and combining textile technology and textile production programs
at UMG into one comprehensive curriculum and replacing advanced
academic science subjects by more practical busiaess management
courses;
(e) feasibility of a program of interchange of teaching and industry
personnel-for teachers to acquire some industrial experience and
industry people to get some exposure to the teaching and research
aspects; and
(f) determination of the cost of capital investment required after
rationalizing the programs and sharing of the training
facilities.



-58-                           ANNEX 7-3
Page 2 of 2
It is estimated that the proposed study would require about 20 man-weeks of
consulting time, would cost about $50,000 equivalent. It is expected that
the study would be initiated by September 15, 1984 and its findings and
recommendations available by April 15, 1985 for review by the Government
and Bank.
Industry Department
March 1984



-59-                              ANNEX 7-4
PORTUGLL - TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
List of Equipment for Textile Training
Testing Equipment Urgently Required for Textile Institute's Laboratories
US$ (1984)
Description                                        Estimated Cost
Yarn Uniformity Tester                                            37,000
Uster Automatic Dynamometer                                       20,000
Fabric Permeability Tester                                         8,000
Hoffman Steam Press                                                6,000
Laboratory Bleaching/Scouring Machine                              6,000
Soxlet Extractors and other Glassware                              5,000
Spectogram and Infrared Equipment                                 16,000
Autoclave and Drying Ovens                                         3,000
Vibrodynamic Testing Equipment                                    27,000
Miscellaneous                                                     16,000
TOTAL        150,000
University of Minho
List of Urgently Required Testing Equipment
US$ (1984)
Description                                  Cost Estimates
Uster Yarn Uniformity Tester                                 60,000
Digital Fibrograph                                           50,000
Uster Automatic Dynamometer                                  20,000
Light Fastner Testing                                        14,000
Instron Stress-Strain Tester                                 40,000
Laboratory Thermofixing Unit                                 26,000
Laboratory Bleaching/Scouring Machine                        12,000
Hoffman Steam Press                                           6,000
TOTAL                    228,000
Contingencies                                                22,000
GRAND TOTAL              250,000
Industry Department
March 1984



IBRD 18048
o.                          ,* ,-    r                    i                            i-        FEBRUARY 1,4
_:i...--F                                                                                .:f       
C..,.'                                                      \       C.,               a   ,              )
--S  ---C,__ -                                                  _                                I   WAA 
----C_.-                                           taAN  DO CA rEbO     %E,/                        {       g         b
PORTUGAt                             wX    -               0                        B
PORTUGAL                  sc,wo                                   , U(    <            n ,
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING I
P*ci-ay -od,
D ai.00-.d,,.
~~~~~:,~ ~~~R,
A0   r      - L  A * N    ro                           7  ct   -   
Alb-aa.,,
*  D.lttntep,l ,>oli{~14                                 1      >                                      U
--D,,i.g, bog,dndo.     /,                                 X                                                        40
-R.g.o.l bo,,do.../    |/                              
nl"e"t.,,ato..Ib.,..da.,s     'IE        rXYlo, LERI  r040,              vCASTELO BRANCO y
B."0CN..                                                -'?
3.. ~ ~ ~ 46..
A*~                                F CA A  C B /  C  e    &    5 4 >   X TIA
~~ S tOM 0 7 1 03
.3,. ~      ~          ~          /   A      L   G)                           > A  R-  13,
i Sitt;;.s~tb .........                                                                    MWtt*'NA
ODAMIRO 3)   f          7 \ujsJ  J  , ttz Nt/f      F R A NbC
o  wo,  9,   oo    *o    xoo  a j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ }  /    }   1l>\./   o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
xsu7SetlRs      $        t    /        \            5\              \Z_ _             ^soOeR^2_t -~~~~~~~~~






