Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqeprt No. 7719
PROJECT COMPLE''ION RLPORT
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2424-PO)
APRIL 6, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and
North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (abbreviation)t    Escudo (Eac.)
Appraisal Year:     1983
Exchange Rate:     US$l - Esc. 135
Esc.l = US$0.0074



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washigton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Olhc a Ogtgotv.CW
OlPIm  tAAulm'n
April 18, 1989
NBNORAUDII TO TIE EXECUTIVS DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Memorandum on Portugal
Textile Industry Restructurina Project (Loan 2424-PO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Memorandum on Portugal - Textile Industry Restructuring
Projeet (Loan 2424-PO)' prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department IV, EMENA Regional Office. Full evaluation of
this project has not been made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
AttachmeLt
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. IS contents ma not otherwise be discosed without World ank authorintion.



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION MEMORANDUM
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 2424-PO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa.e No.
Preface ............. ....... .                                          i
Basic Data Sheet ..............ii
PROJECT COMPLETION MEMORANDUM
Introduction  ..............**o***   .......................    1
The Textile Sector ......        .........   ..........................    1
Project Description ..................                                2
Project Implementation ......         ...............................    2
Project Achievements and Difficulties           4......................    4
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfonname
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be discksed without World Bank authorbtion.



)
PROJECT COMPLETION MEMORANDUM
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2424-PO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Memorandum for the Textile Industry
Restructuring Project in Portugal which the Bank supported with Loan 2424-PO
(US$34.7 million equivalent). The Government was the borrower.
The  loan  was  approved  on  September  24,  1984  and  signed  on
November 29, 1984. However, it was terminated on August 20, 1985 at the
request of the borrower without ever becoming effective.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Memorandum was read by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED), but  the  project was not audited by
OED staff. OED sent copies of the draft memorandum to the Borrower for
coments. However, no comments were received.



(it)
PROJECT COMPLETION MEMORANDUM
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJ5CT
Loan 2424-PO
BASIC DATA SHEET
A. Key Proiect Data
Item                                 Appraisal         Actual or
Expectation      Current Estimatt
Total Project Cost (in US$ Million)      68.9
Underrun or Overrun (S)                 n.a.               n.a.
loan Amount ((US$ Million)              34.7
Disbursed
Cancelled in August 1985
Repaid
Date Physical Components Completed
Months Since Loan Signing
Proportion Completed by Above Date (S)
Proportion of Time Overrun (S)
Institutional Performance
11 The whole amount of the Loan was cancelled by the Bank pursuant to
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements.
B. Other Project Data
Item                                 Original                    Actual or
Plan       Revisions    Est. Actual
First Mention in Files or Timetable                           August 1977
Government's Application                                       1980
Negotiations                                                   April 1984
Board Approval                                                May 24, 1987
Loan Agreement                                                Nov. 29, 1984
Effectiveness                            July 1984            Not Effective
Closing                              Dec. 31, 1989            Cancelled
Borrower: Republic of Portugal
Executing Agency: Ministry of Industry and Energy
Fiscal Year of Borrower: January 1 - December 31
Follow-on Project: SMI II, BFN II



:        ~~~(iii)
C. Mission Data
Item             Sent by    Month/Year           No. of   No. of    No. of
weeks   Persons  Man-weeks
Preparation      Bank       June 1981            2         2          4
Nov. 1981           2          3          6
Feb. 1982           1         1           1
June 1982           2         2           4
July 1982           2         2           4
Appraisal        Bank       Oct. 1982            4         3          12
Aug. 1982           1          1         1
Sept. 1983          3         3          9
Supervision      Bank       July 1984            3         1         3
Bank       Oct. 1984         0.5          1       0.5
Bank       Feb. 1985            2         2         4
Bank       April 1985        0.5          1       0.5
*  Total:   49
D.  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Category                               Original                Actual
Allocation             Disbursement
1. Goods and works for Investment   29,400,000                    0
Projects
2. Equipment for Part C                  360,000                  0
of the Project
3. Consultants' Services
a.  for the Textile Peview Unit      150,000                  0
b.  for tbe Investment Enterprise   750,000
c. for the Training study
under Part C of the project       50,000                  0
4.  Training                             130,000                  0
5. Initial Deposit into
Special Account                  3,760,000                   0
6. Unallocated                           100.000
Total      34.700.000



(Iv)
E. STAFF DNPUT
(Manw"ke)
FY79  FY00  FY81  FY62  FY6s  FY64  FY66  FY66  FMO   FY66  TOTAL
P.gppe.l.al     2.6   5.7 '8.0  48.4  18.4    .6         -      -    -      -    91.7
Apwrel"1          -      -     -      -  16.9  40.6      -      -    -      -    67.4
Negtiation        -      -     -      -     -   7.0      -      -    -      -      7.0
SupervisIon       -      -     -      -     -    .1  21.2    .4    -        -    21.7
Other             -      -     -    .1    .1    .2       -      -    -      -     0.4
TOTAL         2.6   6.7  18.0  46.5  85.4  48.4  21.2    .4    -         -   178.2



PROJECT COMPLETION MEMORANDUM
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan 2424-PO
Introduction
1.       This memorandum has been prepared in lieu of a project
completion report for the above loan which was cancelled in its
entirety. Loan 2424-PO was approved by the Board on May 24, 1984 and
signed on November 29, 1984. However, it never became effective and was
closed on August 20, 1985.
The Textile Sector
2.       The textile industry in Portugal, which is wholly privately
owned, makes an important contribution to GDP, manufacturing employment
and, in particularg to exports. However, it suffered a severe decline
after 1974 and had by 1982 only recovered partially-with output at 76S
of the 1973 level. Bank sector work started in the late 70s, and the
policy dialogue with the Government had been instrumental in the latter
commissioning a major textile sector study (1980). This study found that
most Portuguese firms in the sector were too small to benefit from
economies of scale and bad little internal vertical integration, a large
proportion of aging equipment, and a machine and labor productivity well
below European standards. These problfnms were exacerbated by poor
management practices and the weak financial structure of the textile
companies. On the basis of this study, and its own extensive analysis,
the Bank felt that the industry would benefit from substantial
restructuring-in particular. through the rationalization and
modernization of upstream facilities and the expansion of the garment and
making-up segments. This should benefit the industry by: (i) lowering
production costs and improving competitiveness; (ii) maximizing its
comparative advantage; (iii) increasing the value added of output and
return on investment; and (iv) minimizing the number of employees facing
redundancy through the redeployment of manpower from upstream to
downstream activities. However, moves toward industry restructuring were
likely to face several constraints, including the inverted pyramid
structure of the industry (with upstream facilities [spinning] producing
more than could be absorbed by weaving, which, in turn, had an output in
excess of the demand of the garment and making-up sector), the small size
of most Portuguese companies, and the severe over-staffing combined with
a restrictive labor legislation.



2
3. Textile Development Plan. Following the 1980 textile sector study,
the Portuguese authorities decided to prepare and implement a Textile
Development Plan. After several changes of Government and several
versions of the plan, a final draft plan was prepared in late 1983 by the
Ministry of Industry and Energy with Bank input and in consultation with
the domestic textile industry; its finalization was expected by the end
of 1984. The draft plan provided a diagnosis of the problems in the
sector and offered a broad policy framework, with actions to implement
policy changes and technical and structural improvements at enterprise
level. This was to be supported by appropriate financing to come in part
from the Bank's Textile Loan.
Project Description
4.       The main objective of the Textile Project was to assist the
Government in implementing the objectives of the Textile Development
Plan. To this end, the project would help Portuguese textile industries
strengthen their competitiveness and productivity, and to assist the
sector through the financing of: (i) investment projects for existing
and new enterprises through participating financial institutions; (ii)
the provision of specialized textile consultancy services to eligible
companies and participating financial institutions! (iii) assistance to
the Textile Review Unit of the Ministry of Industry and Energy; (iv)
training, including a study to prepare a comprehensive training program;
and (v) assistance to the Government, in particular to assist in
designing a textile incentive structure and to finalize the Textile
Development plan.
5.       The Bank loan was made to the Government, with the credit line
to be channelled through the Bank of Portugal to the financial
institutions in order to finance up to 65S of the cost of textile
investment projects that met established eligibility criteria. The
technical assistance and training components were to be disbursed by the
Treasury through a revolving special account in a financial
institution.   The total cost of the project was estimated at US$68.9
million, of which the Bank loan of US$34.7 million equivalent would cover
the foreign exchange component.
Pro1ect Implementation
6.       In order to avoid delays in implementation, the project had been
designed in such a way that all crucial legalities would be in place
before effectiveness. These included:
(a) The Agency Agreement for the management
of the credit line to be executed
between the Government and the Bank of
Portugal;



3                4
(b) A Protocol or financing agreement to be
signed between the Bank of Portugal,
the Ministry of Induatry and Energy and
those participating financial
institutions that bad been identified
at the time of appraisal1;
(c) The special accounts for the credit
line and the technical
assistance/training components to be
opened in a financial institution.
7.       The one important step that was left as a dated covenant was that the
final draft legislation to implement the Textile Development Plan,
incorporating restructuring incentive proposals to be developed in
collaboration with the Bank, should be submitted by the Ministry of Industry
and Energy by December 31, 1984 for consideration by the Government.
8.       The project was approved by the Bank's Board un hay 24, 1984 and
signed November 29, 1984. The fairly long period between approval and signing
was probably due to the Government not wanting to pay unnecessary commitment
charges. However, work on project implementation proceeded normally during
1984. Thus, an October 1984 supervision mission reported that the Agency
Agreement was scheduled to be signed by end November and the Protocol by end
December. At the same time, work proceeded on the technical assistance
components; short lists of consultants were being prepared, and it was
expected to have consultants on board by about March/April 1985.
9.       However, a mission that visited Portugal in February 1985 was
informed that the 4overnment's strategy for the industrial sector had been
changed from subsector-specific policies to focus only on a broad-based
promotion of industrial technology development and innovation. Accordingly,
the Goveranent no longer intended to support restructuring directly through
means such as specific development plans or sectoral incentives. On this
basis, the Ministry of Industry and Energy raised the question whether to make
revisions to, or cancel the signed legal documents. The Bank agreed to review
these matters with the Government. In the meantime, the final date for loan
effectiveness was postponed by four months to July 19, 1985.
10.      At the same time, it also became clear that the general industrial
investment climate in Portugal was affected negatively by the rigorous
economic stabilization program. This led to a weak demand for iv:vestment
funds. to  At the same time, thu financial institutions infor,td the Bank
1/ At that time, five commercial banks had agreed to participate and two
other banks had expressed an interest.
2/  This also affected other bank credit lines, including for: (i) industrial
investment through the Government's development Bank (BFN); (ii)
small-scale industries; and (iii) energy conservation.



4
that the proposed spread (0l) was too low to cover their costs.1' The banks
stated that unless this could be improved quite considerably, they were (with
one possible exception) unlikely to avail themselves of the credit scheme to
any significant extent. To permit sufficient time for the Government and the
Bank to review these matters, the deadline for effectiveness was subsequently
extended twice more to August 19, 1985. In this period, the Government agreed
to have carried out a survey of the participating financial institutions to
ascertain the potential demand for the separate textile line of credit.  No
official notification of the results of their survey was every received, but
it became increasingly clear that the potential demand had not recovered as
anticipated.
11.      Finally, on August 16, 1985, the Minister of Finance officially
informed the Bank of his Government's decision to cancel the loan, which was
cfficially terminated as of August 20, 1985 without ever having become
effective.
Project Achievements and Difficulties
12.      The project was the culmination of a long and complicated Bank
involvement in the textile subsector in Portugal. The Bank's dialogue with
the Government helped the latter to develop and formulate its thinking since
this became incorporated in the draft Textile Development Plan. At that time,
it was the Government's approach to rely on sector-specific industrial
policies, involving coordinated restructuring plans and specific incentives,
and the project was dependent upon the Government to continue to follow this
approach. Within that context, the textile project was well formulated,
addressing high-priority issues in the sector.  The very substantial project
preparation work was clearly helpful for the Portuguese public and private
sector participants in clarifying problems and identifying solutions.
13.      However, the project and its unhappy fate may also provide some
lessons for future operations. At the time of the project, it was clear that
Portugal was going to become a full member of the EEC, which is in priniciple
strongly opposed to sector-specific policies of the type supported by the
project. The future political basis for the project should thus have been in
some doubt, although the exact time of the actual policy shift, when it
occurred, was probably dictated largely by changes in key positions in
Portugal. In addition, a sector-specific project can easily come to depend on
special measures, arrangements or incentives, which may possibly perpetuate or
even increase the relative distortions in an economy. On this basis, one
could draw the lessons that the Bank ought to focus more on overall industrial
policies rather than on specific-sectors, and that more attention could be
paid to the likely longer-term policy framework.
1/ Previously, the banks had been willing to accept the spread because they,
at that time, had expected subloans under the project to be exempted from
the Government's credit ceilings (para. 15).



5
14.      As mentioned above, the project represented the culmination of an
expensive Bank involvement in the textile subsector in Portugal, which was an
obvious benefit to the subsector. (In fact, many of the enterprise-level
elements of the textile plan have been implemented and supported in part by
EEC regional development funds.) The project represented the only way for the
Bank to recover its costs, which had been considerable. The lack of other
methods for cost recovery may possibly have repredented an underlying
incentive to proceed further with the project than might otherwise have been
the case.
15.      Finally, a special credit line open only to a specific sector does
not address, but may in fact depend on possible distortions within the
financial system. At the same time, there was from the beginning some concern
as to the effect of the maximum spread accepted by the Portuguese authorities
(3).  This turned out to be  oo low to entice the banks to utilize the credit
line, in view of the heavy appraisal requirements and limited possibilities
for added income through fees and charges. The Bank had proposed a higher
spread: this had been rejected by the authorities who felt that 3X was the
maximum tnder the then prevailing credit policies, and with subloans exempted
from credit ceilings. Once this exemption was removed, the spread became a
critical issue for the banks. Also, the credit component depended in reality
upon a fairly healthy general industrial credit demand. Once this
disappeared, there was no incentive for banks to utilize a special, relatively
time-consuming and unprofitable line of credit rather than their general
funds, irrespective of the credlt demand frcm the textile sector (which was
affected negatively by Portugal's general economic difficulties at that
time). This problem also affected the other Bank credit lines in Portugal.
This may draw into question the usefulness of special lines of credit except
under circumstances of significant resource constraints in an economy.



