Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3798-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$34.7 MILLION
TO TIE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
April 27, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.)
Calendar Year 1983                             March 1984
USt1    =110.78 Esc.                           USt1    =135 Esc.
1 Esc.  =Us$o.0090                             I Esc.  =US$o.0074
FISCAL YEAR
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS
BFN -     Banco de Fomento Nacional
BdP -     Banco de Portugal
EEC -     European Economic Community
EFTA -    European Free Trade Association
IAPMEI -  Institute for Assistance to Small and Medium
Enterprises
ICB -     International Competitive Bidding
MFA -     Multifiber Agreement
MIE -     Ministry of Industry and Energy
NFPE -    Non-financial Public Enterprises
PFI -     Participating Financial Institution
SiII -    System of Industrial Investment Incentives
SMI -     Small and Medium Industries
TDP -     Textile Development Plan
TI -      Textile Institute
TRU -     Textile Review Unit
TTA -     Textile Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL UISE ONLY
PORTUGAL
TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower;             Republic of Portugal
Beneficiaries;        Textile enterprises
Amount;               US034.7 million
Terms;                Repayable in 15 years, including three years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks.
Relending Terms;      Beneficiaries would receive credit with maturities not
to exceed 12 years, including a maximum of three years
grace, at floating interest rates equal to the
floating interest rate payable on local currency 1oans
with similar terms.
Project Description: The proposed project would assist the Government in
initiating its textile subsector development plan
through a program of policy improvements, and
technical and financial assistance. The credit line
would be channeled through participating financial
intermediaries to support investment and
rehabilitation programs of textile enterprises for
strengthening their productivity and competitivenTess.
It also seeks to enhance the ongoing efforts at
strengthening appraisal and support capacities oE
financial intermediaries and technical assistance
institutions by upgrading their textile expertise.
The project faces moderate risks associated with
possible slow utilization of the credit line and lower
than expected returns from the enterprise-specific
restrzucturing programs. Appropriate incentives have
been introduced to maintain the interest of the
participating financial institutions and as well, as
measures to strengthen the appraisal and suppori:
capacities of the financial and technical institutions
serving the textile sector. A special incentive has
been provided under the project to facilitate the use
of expert services in preparation of economically and
financially viable investment programs for the
beneficiary textile enterprises.
This document has a restricted distribujtion and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official_duties. Its contens may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



US$ million (equivalent)
Project Cost                                   Foreign      Local    Total
Investments                                33.0        33.0      66.0
Technical Assistance                        1.1         1.2       2.3
Training                                    0.6                   0.6
Total                                  34.7        34.2      68.9
US$ million (equivalent)
Project Finance                                F'oreign     Local    Total
Bank Loan                                  34.7         -        34.7
Investor self-finance                       -          21.0      21.0
Domestic Banks                              -          13.2      13.2
Total                                  34.7        34.2     68.9
Estimated Disbursements;
US$ Million Equivalent
FY1985  FY1986  FY1987  FY1988  FY1989
Annual                                1.6     8.1    12.6       9.4     3.0
Cumulative                            1.6     9.7    22.3    31.7    34.7
Appraisal Report;                         No. 4938a-PO, dated April 24, 1984



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR A TEXTILE INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$34.7 million to
help finance a Textile Industry Restructuring project.  The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 3 years grace, with interest at the standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The latest economic report, entitled "The Portuguese Economy,
1980-82, An Updating Report" (No. 3804-PO, dated March 1, 1983) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I. An updating economic report is being prepared and
will be discussed with the Government in the next fiscal year.
Background
3.       The revolution of April 1974 radically transformed Portugal's
economy. Major sectors of the economy were nationalized, and a com-
prehensive land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts of
the country. Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights
safeguarded. The Government increased its intervention in the economy
through wage and price controls, as well as by a significant increase iin
public expenditures. The disruptions from these structural changes,
together with a combination of adverse external factors, resulted in a
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments by 1977. In 1978, the
Government adopted a comprehensive adjustment program, including a Standby
Agreement with the IMF, which reduced the current. account deficit to
virtually zero.  The period since 1979 has seen the progressive deterio-
ration of economic performance in most major aspects and again in relation
to the balance of payments.
Recent Developments
4.       The combination of high accumulated current account deficits since
1980, the political uncertainty which followed the fall in December 1982 of
the AD coalition, which had been in power for about two years, and lack of
economic leadership during the first semester of 1983 (pending general
elections), led to a serious deterioration in Portugal's credit rating in
international capital markets. Difficulties were encountered in renewing
part of the short-term external debt of public enterprises and payments on
external short-term capital, mainly by public enterprises, exceeded
receipts by about $600 million during 1983. A large part of the current
account deficit in 1983 was financed through reductions in net foreign
assets (about $1.1 billion).



2-
5.       The new Government, which took office in June 1983, arranged
immediately a number of measures (including devaluation of the escudo and
reduction of subsidies) to start addressing the country's deteriorated
economic situation; it has developed a comprehensive adjustment program
aimed at reducing the balance of payments deficit and at maintaining
indebtedness at a sustainable level. A Standby Agreement with the IMF was
signed on October 9, 1983, which includes ceilings on domestic credit and
on external borrowing. It appears that the economy has already started to
respond to the Government's economic policy measures. For 1983 as a whole,
imports are estimated to have declined by at least 10 percent and exports
have increased by at least 15 percent in volume, compared with 1982
levels.  The current account deficit for the first semester of 1983
declined to $1.4 billion from $2.2 billion during the first semester of
1982, and for the whole year 1983 the current account deficit is estimated
at about t1.7 billion, compared to $3.2 billion for 1982. However, GDP
growth in 1983 is estimated at close to zero; consumption has declined and
investment has declined even more.
6.       Inflation accelerated during 1983, exceeding 33 percent in
December 1983 on an annual basis. It seems that expectations have not
changed and that capital flight continued in 1983 despite a competitive
exchange rate, largely positive real interest rates, and the agreement with
the IMF. Because inventories have been run down, a continuation of the
growth of exports will require increased imports, which in turn, depend
largely on the availability of foreign exchange.   The principal source of
weakness in economic management remains in the area of public sector
finances. The deficit of the general government on a cash basis reached
11.7 percent of GDP in 1982. In addition, arrears equivalent to about 6
percent of GDP remained outstanding from the Supply Fund towards public
enterprises. The Government has taken some measures to pave the way to
financial rationalization, but much remains to be done.
The Need for Structural Change
7.       Stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy in Portugal. Growth rates of the order of 4 to 5 percent per annum,
which were earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with
the maintenance of reasonable equilibrium in the balance of payments over
the next three to four years. The dilemma which the Government is now
grappling with is to address the serious deterioration in the economic
situation, while at the same time undertaking structural changes. Efforts
to restructure industry, to encourage investment attuned to energy-saving
and to improve the generally weak productivity performance of Portuguese
agriculture will need to be pursued in a framework which is consistent with
stabilization policies. If reasonable domestic growth is to be achieved in
spite of oil, food and other structural dependencies on the import side,
Portugal will require continued growth of visible exports at rates sig-
nificantly higher than the growth of world trade. Portugal will also need
to follow policies which can maintain migrants' remittances at a high
level.



-3-
8.       Industry is the leading sector for exports, and particularly in
line with the prospective EEC accession, require restructuring to fully
exploit its comparative advantage. This will mean emphasis on labor-
intensive industries, both light industries (textiles and footwear) and
heavier items (including electrical machinery and transport equipment).
Although Portugal's industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the
development of basic industry to supply the domestic market should also be
pursued whenever adequate returns can be demonstrated. It will also be
important to simplify (and in some cases dismantle) many of the complex
Government interventions to which Portuguese industries have become ac-
customed. These include the system of investment incentives, the price
control apparatus, the arrangements for export incentives, and extensive
non-tariff barriers to trade.
9.       The need for structural change is particularly acute for non-
financial public enterprises (NFPE). This is true for several reasons.
First, there has been little direct pressure on these enterprises to adjust
to changed circumstances, resulting in low profits, if not losses, for many
of them. Administered prices, rigid labor laws, inadequate managerial
incentives/accountability, and insufficient self-financing requirements for
investment have retarded rationalization at the enterprise level. Second,
exogenous circumstances have aggravated the adjustment problem; these
include the concentration in the public sector of industries which are
economically depressed worldwide (e.g., shipbuilding, steel, cement, and
international transport); the delays and uncertainties in budgetary trans-
fers and investment approvals due to changing governments; and the strong
position of labor unions in the large public sector enterprises. Social
service obligations, such as maintaining strategic reserves or uneconomic
services, might also fall into this category. And third, the NFPEs have
been required, to some extent, to bear the burden of adjustment of the rest
of the economy through accumulated net budgetary arrears. It seems
essential, therefore, that some financial restructuring at the enterprise
level should take place to relieve liquidity pressures. It must also be
closely tied to institutional changes and physical restructuring to
increase long-run profitability. The Bank is closely associated with work
under way at the Government level to formulate a restructuring program for
NFPEs.
10.      The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to
economic growth foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for about
60 percent of the investment in the period. The large increases in exports
in 1979 and in 1983 are evidence of the gains that the private sector can
make in major markets. However, private investment is still hindered by
several factors. Profitability, though rising in recent years, is sl:ill
relatively low by historical standards and is likely to be squeezed in the
near future. Credit availability to the private sector may be restricted
by the continuing large public sector borrowing requirement. Potential
investors have considered current interest rates too high and the invest-
ment incentive schemes are essentially designed to mitigate the perceived



- 4 -
high cost of capital. Given the relatively poor response to its incentives
programs, the Government is considering ways to revise them, through better
targeting and reducing their overall cost.
11.      Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are
also underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be
expanded further and focussed on production-oriented investments. The
mechanism and structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be ration-
alized to provide appropriate incentives for long-term investments. While
increased on-farm investments are necessary, little will be achieved
without substantial advances on the technical side as well. The extension
services of the Ministry of Agrictulture, Food and Forestry need to be
upgraded, and their links to research and to the farmers need to be
strengthened. Recent efforts to train agricultural extension manpower and
the farmers themselves need to be intensified. The Bank has carried out a
joint review with the Government of the prospects for improving the perfor-
mance of the agricultural sector, and its report is expected to provide a
basis for further collaboration.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.      The total external debt of Portugal increased from $7.3 billion at
the end of 1979 to $14.5 billion by August 1983; at the end of 1982, total
external debt amounted to about 57 percent of GDP. Almost 80 percent of
the total outstanding debt has been contracted by the public sector, with
public enterprises accounting for 50 percent. Public and pubLicly guar-
anteed debt accounts for 96 percent of all medium- and long-term debt.
Short-term debt, which is estimated at the end of 1983 at $3.5 billion, has
been the fastest growing component of Portugal's external debt. More than
91 percent of the short-term debt has been contracted by NFPEs, essentially
four of them. During the first semester of 1983, the short-term borrowings
of the Treasury and NFPEs were contracted at rates one-half to five-eighths
above LIBOR.
13.      Portugal is a regular borrower on international capital markets,
either directly by the state or through public enterprises. About
two-thirds of total borrowings, and virtually all of the short-term
borrowing, has been contracted from financial -institutions. Multilateral
lending constitutes only about 13 percent of Portugal's medium- and long-
term debt outstanding, and is slightly less than bilateral lending.
14.      The steady increase in Portugal's external debt, coupled with a
weakening in the rate of growth of foreign exchange earnings, has resulted
in a considerable deterioration in the various debt service indicators.
The broadly defined debt service ratio (including interest payments but not
amortization on short-term debt) rose from 14.5 percent in 1980 to 27.5
percent in 1982.  For 1983, it is estimated that debt service payments,
excluding the rollover of the outstanding in short-term debt, exceeded $2.2
billion (or about 28 percent of foreign exchange earnings). In addition to
the rapid build-up in Portugal's external debt, the recent deterioration in



- 5-
the debt service ratio has also been the result of large amortization
payments falling due on the medium-term debt contracted in the late 1970s.
Keeping the external debt situation manageable in the next few years wiLl
require a reduction in the current account deficit as a proportion of GDP,
attended by relatively slow GDP growth (not exceeding 3 percent), and a
greater effort to expand exports (by at least 7 percent per year).
15.      The IMF agreement mentioned in preceeding paragraphs established a
ceiling on the increase of total external debt outstanding by the end of
1984 of $1.2 billion, of which W20 million can be short-term. Despite
Portugal's gold reserves (20.44 million troy ounces in June 1983), which
are still perceived as Portugal's main guarantee by most lenders, some
difficulties may be encountered over the next 12 months to roll over the
existing debt and to extend the needed additional loans. The necessity of
carefully managing its foreign exchange position and external financial
arrangements will remain an issue for Portugal until the end of the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
16.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period
1963-66, was concentrated in the power sector; this reflected the Govern-
ment's development priorities to meet the power needs of a rapidly devel-
oping industrial sector. The events of the more recent past have created
special problems; the transition to an open political system has revealed
social and economic weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively high-
income developing country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by
identifying, preparing and financing projects, and through economic and
sector work in a number of areas.
17.      The proposed loan would be the twenty-fourth to Portugal, the
nineteenth since the resumption of lending in 1976. Bank operations since
1976 amount to about $817 million (net of cancellations), and have been
concentrated in the industry (6 projects for $323.2 million) and energy (4
projects for $212.4 million) sectors. About 41 percent of the total
lending has been channelled to public enterprises, about 36 percent via
lines of credit for onlending to individual enterprises, with the remaining
23 percent in support of activities undertaken by the Government admin-
istration.
18.      As of March 31, 1984, total disbursements from loans made after
1976 amounted to about $344 million. Four loans (Sixth Power, First Banco
de Fomento, First Highways and Fertilizer Modernization) are fully
disbursed. Given the profile of commitments and some recent improvements
in the implementation of the projects under Government administration,
overall disbursement performance has been improving; disbursements in
FY1983 amounted to $97.5 million equivalent. A full review of the perfor-
mance of the portfolio was held in Lisbon in March 1984 and agreements
reached on ways to facilitate further improvements to project implemen-
tation and loan disbursements. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.



- 6 -
i90      Ongoing projects with public enterprises are all progressing well
in physical project terms, with all but the most recent loan to the elec-
tricity corporation (FY1983) nearly fully disbursed; as noted above, many
public enterprises (including some public enterprises which are Bank
borrowers) are experiencing sericus financial difficulties. This situation
;s under close scrutiny by the Bank and the Government, and special efforts
to address the underlying and institutional causes are being designed. The
loans for onlending via lines of credit have recently slowed in disburse-
me-nts,  l;ith the devaluation of the escudo over the course of project
exncution, the first Small and Medium Industry (SMI) line of credit
recluired about twice as many subloans denominated in local currency to be
fui1y co-iaitted than was expectlel at appraisal.  Commitments under the
second National Development Bank loan have been adversely affected by the
slowdown in investment in Portugal, which appears to have particularly
affected its larger-scale enterprise clients. The agricultural and
fisheries credit project experierLced severe institutional difficulties and
was never able to reach the target population, and consequently most of the
line has been cancelled.
20,      Tne Bank is also assisting the Government in an intense parallel
effort at macroeconomic and sectoral levels to review policy and management
issues, The report "Policies for Industrial Restructuring", dated August
4, 1982, laid the basis for a number of policy improvements and identifi-
cation of projects for possible Bank assistance, including the currently
proposed Textile Industry Restructuring Project. This report was followed-
up b,y an updated economic memorandum and a special report on "Prospects for
Ext:ernal Trade in Light of EEC Entry - with Special Reference to Agricul-
tul-e,` both of which were distributed to the Executive Directors in March
1983,c At the sectoral level, we are nearing completion of an Agricultural
Sector Survey, which will be discussed with the Government by mid-1984, and
an Energy Assessment Report, which has already been discussed with the
Governmeint and will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The
major ongoing effort is the preparation, at the request of the Government,
of a report on the public enterprise sector. We also expect to launch
additional work on the overall financial sector, in close association with
the IFC, in the near future.
7-1      The industry, energy, and agriculture sectors have been identified
as the most appropriate areas oE concentration for Bank work.  The impor-
ta-nce or the industrial sector cannot be overemphasized, as it is expected
to be the major growth point for the Portuguese economy and exports. The
main objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector are structural
reform, export promotion and efEicient import-substitution, employment
creation and preservation and promotion of energy-saving.  Restructuring
projects for a number of industrial subsectors are being prepared, as well
as a project to promote technological improvements; a manpower and voca-
tional training project is expected to be ready soon. Bank activities in
support of the development of the energy sector in Portugal are also
important, given the continuing high dependence of Portugal on imported



- 7 -
petroleum products, the attractive potential benefits from energy
conservation, and the very large share of energy investments in the overall
public investment program. Follow-up projects for the electri- city
corporation and energy savings projects are planned, and a project for coal
handling port facilities is being prepared. In the agricultural sector,
Bank assistance will be focused on institution-building programs and
technical assistance. A program of technical assistance has been defined
and is being formulated into a project proposal for consideration this
fiscal year. Other project proposals identified in the draft Agricul- ture
Sector Survey include programs for livestock and dairy development, wheat,
and regional agricultural development services.
22.      In the context of the stabilization program, the overall invest-
ment program of the Government and the public enterprises has been severely
constrained; in 1984, public investment is expected to decline in real
terms. The slowdown of growth for the general economy will also dampen
private sector investment levels as well. The Bank program of assistance
is therefore designed to address policy level issues which will facilitate
the progressive return to robust growth, and targetted at those specific
investment areas which should receive priority, especially in the con-
strained circumstances.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
23.      The industrial sector is a leading sector in the Portuguese
economy, accounting for about 30 percent of GDP, 35 percent of employment,
40 percent of capital formation and about 90 percent of merchandise
exports. The public sector controls the major capital-intensive industries
(i.e., steel, oil refining, chemicals, and shipbuilding), and has the
largest operations in other subsectors which have recently been opened to
the private sector (i.e., fertilizer, pulp and paper, and cement). In
total, the public industrial sector accounts for about 35 percent of total
manufacturing capital stock. These industries are primarily oriented
towards domestic markets. The private sector dominates other industries,
including textile, food processing, transport equipment (other than ship-
building), electrical-mechanical products, wood and cork.
24.      The recent performance of the industrial sector has been mixed and
disappointing when compared with the relatively strong performance in the
late 1970s. In 1982, industrial production rose by only about 2 percent
and production in many of the main exporting subsectors, such as textiles
and electrical-mechanical industries, actually declined; output was only
sustained by the stronger performance in subsectors more reliant on
domestic elements of demand.  Even though there were small improvemenl:s in
productivity in 1980, that situation was reversed in 1981 and the overall
productivity position remains weak. While there is considerable export
potential within the industrial sector, substantial increases in produc-
tivity levels will need to be made before Portuguese industries can
maximize the potential benefit of EEC accession, and more importantly,
counter the threat of increased import penetration from the new EEC part-
ners as well as non-EEC countries.



- 8-
25.      The Government's industrial policy has been evolving and is being
guided towards two approaches: (i) to rehabilitate existing enterprises in
traditional export industries (textile, engineering, pulp and paper, and
food being of high priority); and (ii) to promote new investments in
technologically advanced areas. Ihe global objectives are to increase
exports and to create new, viable employment (in part to help absorb the
labor released from the reorganization of existing enterprises). The scope
of the restructuring program for existing subsectors involves industrial
reorganization (phasing out of non-viable units or merging them into more
efficient size plants), changes in output structure (better design and
quality of products), and improvement in plant: efficiency. The proposed
program for the textiles sector i's the first effort of the Government to
implement a coordinated sector-specific restructuring program of policy
improvements, technical assistance and financ:ial assistance.
Financial System
26.      For a country of Portugal's state of development, the number and
variety of financial institutions is limited. Leasing has just been
introduced and there are some efforts to revitalize the stock market.  All
private Portuguese financial institutions, with the exception of the small
savings banks, were nationalized in 1975; however, the recent revision to
the Constitution has reopened parts of the financial sector to the private
sector (both domestic and foreign).
27.      The major sources of loan finanzing f'or the industrial sector are
the commercial banks.  Although term lending has been expanding rapidly
since 1977 (when commercial banks were allowecl to lend at terms greater
than one year), the concentration on short-term operations continues. About
74 percent of the industrial credit portfolio of the overall banking system
is invested in short-term loans, 15 percent in loans up to 5 years, and 21
percent in loans over 5 years. A large porticn of these short-term credits
are regularly rolled over. The experience gained under previous Bank--
financed projects indicates that, while commercial banks have limited
project appraisal capability, there have been considerable improvements in
the recent past.
28.      All interest rates in Portugal are subject to a floating rate
which is established by the central bank (BdP). During the last five
years, interest rates have been increased steadily, raising the maximum
deposit rates from 13 percent to 30 percent and the maximum lending rate
from 14.75 percent to 32.5 percent. Average annual rates of inflation
during the past three years ranged between 20-25 percent; long-term lending
rates were held at about 4-5 percentage points above the average annual
rate of inflation. The policy of maintaining positive real interest rates
is expected to be continued in order to ensure the relative attractiveness
of holding domestic financial assets and to manage the demand for credit.
Currently, some changes are under consideration, including the possibility
of a decline in nominal terms in the final lending rate to reflect the
expected decline in inflation during 1984.



- 9 -
29.      Tn order to encourage selected industrial investments, the Govern-
ment put in place in 1980 aLn incentive scheme relying heavily on interest
rate subsidies (SIII). An investment qualifying for the maximum subsidy
would receive an average of 6 percent per annum interest rate rebate over
five years.  The procedures for implementing this scheme are cumbersome
and, after one revision of the scheme in 1983, the Government is now
undertaking a major overhaul of its overall incentive program and has asked
for Bank assistance in this exercise. There is general agreement that the
new system should be simple to administer, be seen as an incentive (not
just a reward calculated after-t:he-fact), include fiscal-based benefits, be
less costly to the Government budget, and be consistent in approach across
the range of industrial subsectors. The new program would emphasize
separate incentive measures taiLored to specific subsectors. The Govern-
ment has also indicated that it intends to adopt the EEC's approach for
incentives for regional development, in a system separate from those
directed specifically at industrial development.
The Textile Industry
30.      The textile industry was launched in Portugal as an import substi-
tution program in the 1930s, and its continued growth has been largely due
to its strong export performance. The textile industry includes primary
activities (spinning, weaving and processing), knitting and making-up of
household goods and garments. It is the largest single industrial activity
in Portugal, now accounting for nearly ten percent of GDP, about 18 percent
of manufacturing employment, and about 27 percent of total exports. The
textile industry imports nearly all of its fiber raw materials, and
exported over three-fourths of its total production in volume terms in
1982.
31.      The structure of the industry is well-developed at all stages of
production; the production of yarn is used in weaving, which in turn
supplies the knitting and making-up industries. About 50 percent of
textile production and employment is associated with primary processes,
about 17 percent with knitting, and about 18 percent with making-up, with
the balance in other textile goods. The material balance of production
indicates an excess of domestic production of yarns and fabrics compared
with the downstream operations of higher value-added. Only about 25
percent of the companies are fully vertically integrated, reflecting a
fairly high degree of specialization, but as units of production are small,
this also indicates problems of attaining economies of scale.  In the
primary sector, over 80 percent of the companies employ fewer than 200
workers and only 4 percent employ over 500 workers; in the downstrearn
activities, more than 80 percent of the companies employ fewer than L00
workers.
32.      The industry suffers from both low machine and labor productivity.
Most of the mills use the conventional technology of ring spinning and
shuttlelooms, but less than 1 percent use high speed, open-end spindles and



- 10 -
only about 6 percent of the weaving machines are of the modern shuttleless
type. About 40 percent of the industry's spindles and looms were installed
before 1965. Average machine efficiency is about 80 percent for cotton
spinning, compared to the international standard of about 93 percent. The
cost of labor in Portugal is about 70 percent lower than in EEC countries,
but labor productivity is also about 40 percent lower. This results
nonetheless in an important advantage to Portuguese textiles with unit
labor costs about half of those in the EEC. In spinning and weaving, labor
productivity is about half the standard international practice, and
finishing and making up is about 70 percent. ODvermanning has been estimated
to be about 40 percent. Furthermore, poor management practices lead to
high waste, low product quality, and poor maintenance, which contribute to
excessive costs and low profitability.
33.      Like most other private sector companies in Portugal, the finan-
cial structure of textile companies is very weak. This has been exacer-
bated by the disruptions following the 1974 revolution, at which time
production dropped by about 45 percent, and industry has not yet attained
the pre-revolution volume of total production<. Almost half of the
companies in the sector have equity positions of less than 20 percent of
assets, over 25 percent show losses, and only about one third show reason-
able profits.   Despite this weak overall condition, there are a number of
modern, well-run companies of larger scale, which operate efficiently and
profitably, and which successfully export a large portion of their
production.
34.      Apart from raw materials, import penetration of textile products
into the domestic market accounts for only about 40 percent of consumption,
compared to levels of 60-70 percent experienced in other European countries.
Portugal has been able to maintain this domestic market due to its rela-
tively strong competitive position vis a vis European producers in terms of
lower labor costs and against non-European sources due to tariffs and
import restrictions.
35.      Current tariff levels for textile imports from EEC sources range
between 3-11 percent, whereas those for non-EEC sources range up to 70
percent.  When Portugal joins the EEC, and is required to adjust its
external and internal tariff levels and share the EEC Multifiber Agreement
import quotas, this protected domestic market will be subject to increased
competition. Given the current lower labor unit cost of Portuguese
textiles compared with EEC competitors and the f'airly low existing tariffs
for EEC products, it is not anticipated that imported EEC products will
significantly displace Portuguese products. This will not be the case
however for non-EEC sources, whose volume of exports to Portugal can be
expectei to double as Portugal assumes its share of the EEC MFA textile
imports.
36.      The textile industry is very export-oriented, and in 1982 exported
the equivalent of 77 percent of its total production in volume terms.
After the 1974/75 disruptions, exports have been increasing steadily at a



- 11 -
rate of 6.4 percent per annum in volume terms, and in value terms have
increased at a slightly faster rate, indicating a change in the composition
of exports to items of higher value-added. The relative shares of yarns
and fabrics compared to garments and other articles have shifted, from 45
and 25 percent respectively in 1973 to 27 and 42 percent respectively in
1982. The destination of exports has also shifted, becoming more conc:en-
trated in EEC and EFTA markets (up from 66 percent in 1973 to 89 percent in
1982).
37.      While textiles represent the major export product of Portugal,
Portuguese textiles account for a fairly small share of world markets; in
1982, Portugal provided less than 5 percent of EEC imports and less than
0.5% of US imports. In the last five years, EEC quotas for Portuguese
textiles have been increasing at the rate of 4-5 percent per annum, and
most of the EEC quotas assigned to Portugal (other than knitwear and
household goods) were only partially filled.
38.      The Portuguese have already completed negotiations of the textiles
accession protocol with the EEC. This protocol is now in force, and calls
for the growth of Portuguese exports to the EEC to be limited to an average
of 8-15 percent per annum (depending on product) until accession and for
the first three years of the transition period; thereafter, there woluld be
no restrictions. Taking account of these constraints, and increased import
penetration, along with some fairly conservative projections of domestic
GDP growth and consumption of textiles, the volume of exports from Portugal
could increase by about 50 percent by 1993. The actual growth will depend
on the timing of the accession and the success of the restructuring
programs to increase productivity and competitiveness.
39.       In order to enable the textile sector to maintain its domestic
markets to the maximum extent possible and to capitalize on the expanding
external markets available to it, the Government has decided to facilitate
a major restructuring of the industry. A draft Textile Development Plan
(TDP) has been prepared and is under discussion with representatives of the
industry. The TDP enunciates three basic elements--policy improvements,
technical services, and financial assistance. The policy actions relate to
the improvements to the general structure of tariffs as already agreed
under the EEC protocol, the specific textile restructuring incentive
measures, and the general legislation already enacted to introduce more
flexibility into labor contracts. The TDP strategy offers alternative
restructuring approaches to (i) lower production costs; (ii) maximize
comparative advantages in terms of relatively lower cost labor with good
skills; (iii) increase value-added of outputs and return on investment; and
(iv) minimize the number of workers facing redundancy. This will be a very
complex process, involving shifting capacity from the primary activities
with high capital costs per job to those in the downstream industries with
higher value-added, reducing the imbalance in the structure of production,
merging of units of uneconomic size, re-assigning, retraining and/or
releasing about 25 percent of those currently employed in textiles, and
upgrading obsolescent equipment and management practices. The total
investment requirements for the 1984-87 period are estimated to be about
$200-250 million.



- 12 -
40.      Since the resumption of lending in 1976, the Bank has provided
assistance to the industrial sector in Portugal via seven operations, for a
total of '336.3 million equivalent or about 40 percent of total Bank
lending. Tne operations are of two types--traditional development finance
and industrial modernization activities (para. 19). The selection of
lending operations was guided by Portugal's needs to modernize its
industries to meet domestic consumption and to maximize the benefits of
integration into the EEC. In addition to the lines of credit for Small and
Medium Industries (SMIs) (Loan Nos. 1701-and 2263-PO), and for larger
industry via the Banco de Fomento Nacional (Loan Nos. 1432 and 1942-PO),
the Bank has also made direct loans to industrial enterprises. The
Fertilizer Modernizati on Project (Loan No. 1649-PO) and Mechanical
Industries Projects (Loan Nos, 1874 anda 1875-PO) supported the rehabili-
tation needs of heavy industry concerns which had been nationalized. These
projects have been wel1 executed in physical terms, but the enterprises
have experienced some financial difficulties arising from their public
sector structures (para. 9).  In addition, the IFC has made two investments
in the financial sector (an investment company and a leasing company) and
one investment in the hotel industry; work is; underway on a number of other
proposals in the industrial sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.      The proposed project was prepared to follow-up and implement the
program of restructuring for the textile industry which was discussed in
the Bank Report "Policies for Industrial Restructuring,"(Report No. 3804-PO
dated August 4, 1982). The project was appraised in September 1983, and is
described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Portugal
Textile Industry Restructuring Project" (No. 4938-PO, dated April 24,
1984), which is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C., from April 10 to 13, 1984. The Portuguese delegation was
lead by Dr. Antonio Labisa, Ministry of Finance and Planning. The main
features are listed in the Loan and Project Sunmiary and in Annex TII.
Project Objectives
42.      The project would assist the Government to launch on a pilot basis
its first subsector-specific restructuring program, in the context of its
overall industrial restructuring objectives. The main objective of this
project is to help Portuguese textile industries strengthen their produc-
tivity and competitiveness.  A complementary objective is to help initiate
the Government's overall restructuring strategy, and formulate effective
policy adjustments to ensure the successful implementation of additional
sector specific restructuring activities in the future.



- 13 -
Project Scope and Cost
43.      The proposed project consists of a package of components, with a
total project cost of about $68.9 million equivalent, of which $34.7
million would be in foreign exchange. An amount equivalent to $66.0
million equivalent is associated with the cost of the investment sub-
projects to be financed by the participating financial institutions (PFIs)
and refinanced in part under the project line of credit. The Technical
Assistance Component ($Z.3 million equivalent including contingencies)
would launch on a pilot basis Et program to assist companies to obtain
suitable advice on restruc- turing to meet changing market conditions and
to increase productivity and profitability, as well as to enhance the
capacity of the agencies providing services to the textile industry. The
Training Component (W0.6 million equivalent) would finance a number of
specific activities to improve the capacity of the agencies involved in the
training of textiles workers and managers. The Bank loan of $34.7 million
equivalent would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project, or
about 50% of total project cost. The PFIs and the individual companies
would finance the balance.
Restructuring Line of Credit
44.       The project would provide a line of credit of $33.0 million
equivalent, under which the PFIs would be eligible to refinance up tD 65
percent of the total investment cost of each eligible subproject. The line
of credit was calculated to reflect the PFIs projection of eligible sub-
projects, a conservative estimate of the investment requirements for
textile restructuring over the 1984-87 period, and the availability of
financing from other sources. The project would cover about 40 sub-
projects, or about 30 percent of the total investment requirements esti-
mated for the TDP during the 1984-87 period. The project would make use of
the channeling mechanism which is operating successfully under the SMI
loans, with the proposed loan to be made to the Government and the proceeds
of the credit line managed in a special textile account by the BdP under an
agency agreement between the Government and BdP (Loan Agreement, Section
3.01 (b)). It would be a condition of effectiveness that an agency agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank, be executed (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01
(a)).
45.      Five financial institutions have agreed so far to participate in
the proposed project.  The Bank has appraised their capacity to assist
their textile clients with restructuring programs, and measures to improve
their appraisal capacity have been agreed. Formal agreement to their
responsibilities under the project and arrangements for access to the
refinance facilities would be recorded in a protocol between the PFIs, the
BdP and the Government. Execution of this protocol, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01
(b)). Additional PFIs would be included under the project, subject to
satisfactory evaluation by the Bank of their textile appraisal expertise
and signature of the protocol.



- 14 -
46.      Terms and Conditions.  Credit terms to the eligible textile
companies would be in line with the subproject ability to repay, but in no
case exceeding 12 years, including three years grace. The companies would
pay the floating interest rate applicable to similar term loans in escudos
(currently 32.5 percent for medium-term loarns) and would be eligible to
receive investment incentives granted by the Government. At least 30
percent of the total investment cost of new companies would be in equity
form; for expansion and/or rehabilitation proiects, investor's own funds
would initially provide at least 20 percent for the whole enterprise,
increasing to 30 percent within three years of completion of the investment
subproject.
47.      The proposed Bank loan would be available to the Government for 15
years, including three years grace, at the standard variable rate. Repay-
ment would be made according to a fixed amortization schedule. BdP would
be paid a fee of 0.50 percent per annum on the amount of the line of credit
withdrawn and outstanding for managing the line of credit accounts. The
PFIs would receive a spread of 3.0 percent on the eligible subloans which
they refinance under the line of credit. The balance of the differential
between the Bank's variable interest rate and the final onlending rate,
would be paid to the Treasury to cover the foreign exchange and interest
risks on the repayment of the Bank loan. Thes current credit ceiling
incentive measure, whereby the PFIs monthly credit ceiling is adjusted to
reflect utilization of the line of credit, would be continued (Loan
Agreement, Section 4.02).
48.      In view of the changing conditions iin the Portuguese financial
system, including the possibility of a decline in nominal terms in the
final lending rate to reflect the expected decline in inflation during
1984, the allocation of the differential between the interest rate charged
on the Bank loan and that charged to the final borrowers will be kept under
close review. The Government, in collaboration with the BdP, would carry
out an analysis of the basis for this allocation by December 31, 1984, and
review with the Bank the conclusions and recommendations of this analysis;
the allocation of the differentiaL for this project would be revised as
needed thereafter in agreement with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
49.      Investment Eligibility Criteria.  The proceeds of the credit line
would be used to finance the physical rehabilitation, modernization and
expansion of existing textile enterprises and the creation of new produc-
tion units, including fixed assets and related expenditures such as perma-
nent working capital and technical assistance, but excluding land.
Specific eligibility criteria are geared to fiacilitate the development of
the most promising segments of the textile industry (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 6, para. (2)). At least half of the credit line and about
three-fourths of the number of subprojects would be for investments to
modernize and expand downstream activities (finishing, knitting and garment
making); investment cost per job maintained/created would not exceed
$10,000 for making-up of garments and household goods and t45,000 for
processing and knitting activities. The proiect would also finance



- 15 -
rehabilitation of upstream activities (spinning and weaving) as long as
investment cost per job would not exceed current EEC standards, and labor
and machine productivity would be similar to or better than EEC levels.
50.      Subproject Appraisal, Review and Approval.  The PFIs have taken
adequate measures to strengthen their technical textile appraisal capabili-
ties and would identify and appraise the potential subprojects according to
their current appraisal procedures, including technical, financial and
economic viability. The minimum acceptable financial rate of return is 12
percent; in addition, any investment exceeding $1.0 million equivalent
would need to demonstrate an economic rate of return of 12 percent. In
these calculations, ex-factory and transfer prices would be comparable to
border prices of the EEC.  The PFIs would also be responsible for ascer-
taining the compliance with the specific eligibility criteria and for
assessing the need for and arranging technical assistance for subprojects
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para. (3)).
51.       The PFIs would be solely responsible for deciding whether to
finance a particular subproject or refinance it under the credit line.
However, given the complex nature of restructuring exercises, the Bank
would appraise jointly with each PFI its first three subprojects (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 6, para. (4)). If this review is satisfactory, the
PFIs would follow separate procedures for authorization and review, depen-
ding on the size of the investment (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03). If the
appraisal quality is not found satisfactory, the Bank would continue to
appraise jointly all subprojects, and work with the PFIs to improve their
appraisal standards.  After this initial stage of joint appraisal has been
satisfactorily achieved, all subprojects with investment costs less than
$1.25 million equivalent would be considered free-limit subprojects fcr
which PFIs would send a sunmary note (briefly describing the subproject and
compliance with the eligibility criteria) to BdP, which would convey
authorization to withdraw from the credit line, on behalf of the Bank; a
copy of this note would also be sent to the Textile Review Unit (TRU), for
information (para. 56). Once a month, BdP would send a list of these
free-limit subprojects to the Bank for its information. For subprojects
with investment costs greater than $1.25 million equivalent, the PFIs would
send a copy of their appraiisal reports to the Bank for review and approval,
and to the TRU for consideration on a no-objection basis. It is expected
that the Bank would closely review and approve at Least 50 percent of the
total number of subprojects. The commitment deadline for submission of all
subprojects is September 30, 1987.
52.      The role of the TRU in the review and approval process is designed
to enable it to monitor the activities being undertaken and therefore judge
r           the response of the sector to the Government's program.  If the TRU has any
serious questions or reservrations about a proposed above the free-limit
subproject, it would communicate its concerns along with appropriate
explanations to the Bank within 15 days, with a copy to the PFI concerned.
The TRU's review of subprojects would be subsector oriented, covering the
scope and direction of the PFI's efforts, and would not constitute a
detailed, project-by-project review and control mechanism.



- 16 -
53       Supervision.  The PFIs would supervise the subprojects from the
point of view of risk, eligibility, implementation, and technical assis-
tance.  The PFIs would utilize the services of aualified consultants  to
assist in their technical appraisal of the subprojects, especially labor
and machine productivity standards, market prospects, technology and
procurement The BdP would supervise the overall line of credit. The TRU
would collaborate with the PFIs and the BdP to prepare a seTniannual report
on the overall implementation of the project; this report would include an
analysis of the progress and results to date of approved subprojects and
the technical assistance provided, utilization of the refinance facility,
and lessons learned about the overall restructuring policy approach.
54.      Procurement.  Given the mix of investment components (consulting
services, equipment, civil works, permanent working capital) and the small
expected average subproject size (about $1.C million equivalent for the
downstream activities), international competitive bidding (ICB) is not
appropriate for most of the subprojects. ICB would be required only for
subprojects which involve the purchase in a single package of equipment
with a value equal to or exceeding $l.0 million equivalent. For equipment
purchases of more than 0200,000 and up to $1.() million equivalent, at least
three price quotations from more than one country would be required.
Procurement of goods costing less than $2OO,OOO equivalent would follow
local competitive procedures of the PFIs, satisfactory to the Bank.  The
Bank would review the procurement documentation for all contracts above
$500,000.
55.      Coordination With Other Bank Operations.  The PFIs have agreed to
follow the principles of the textile eligibility criteria and appraisal
standards and procedures established under the project for all their
restructuring investment lending to the textile sector. As these PFIs
account for the majority of all lending to the textile sector, these
criteria will have a wide application. For those financial institutions
which do not formally participate under the proposed project, the Govern-
ment has agreed that the same criteria and standards would be applied to
any textile subproject financed under the ongoing Second SM-[ project, once
the proposed project is underway.  The Government has also agreed that the
technical service agency for SMIs (IAPMEI) would have an advisory role in
the textile project protocol after the funds available under the Second SMI
project are fully committed; in the meantime., TAPMET would be responsible
for providing any needed expert services, utilizing the same prequalified
list of textile consulting services as that established under the proposed
project (para. 58). BFN has also agreed to apply the same textile criteria
to its own lending (if any) to the textile sector.



- 17 -
Technical Assistance
56.      The Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) would maintain a small
Textile Review Unit (TRU), to focus better its own information and moni-
toring functions and to undertake further analysis in developing and
adjusting the Government's TDP (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The TEhU
would be staffed by assigning officials in related duties within the MIE.
The TRU would administer a special account for textile technical assistance
and training (para. 63), monitor the impact of the restructuring program,
and carry out studies for improving subsector performance in such areas as
market studies and environmental control. The TRU would report to an
interministerial Textile Committee, which would meet about twice a year to
review the TRU's findings and studies, and to recommend adjustments to the
TDP, if needed. The TRU would utilize the services of experts, starting by
October 31, 1984, to assist in developing a textile information system, as
well as to assist with some of the specific studies (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03 (c)).
57.      Project funds wou'Ld be available under a special Textile Technical
Assistance Program (TTA) to assist in the financing of expert services for
textile enterprises to develop and implement viable, market-oriented
restructuring subprojects. The TTA program would reimburse up to 50
percent of the cost of the expert services needed by approved subprojects,
up to a maximum of $20,000 equivalent per subproject. These technical
assistance services (estimated total $800,000 equivalent) are expected to
cost on average less than 3 percent of the investment cost per subpro-ject,
and could be considered as fully reimbursed to the Government via the
assignment of about 1.25 percent of the spread on the subloans (para 47).
The balance of the cost of these services would be borne by the enterprise
itself.
58.      The technical services could consist of, among others, advice on
project preparation, programs to improve operating practices, management
and accounting procedures, design of new products, developing new marketing
approaches, assessing the technical and technological requirements for the
investment projects, and market and productivity information. A list of
prequalified foreign and local expert consultants, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be established by the TRU by October 31, 1984, from which the
individual textile enterprises would be free to choose (Loan Agreement:,
Section 3.03 (b)). These consultants shall be selected and employed i'n
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank. I't is
expected that loan proceeds disbursed through the TTA program would provide
about 285 man-months of expert services during the 1984-87 period, or about
7 manmonths per subproject, covering on average about 34 percent of these
r          costs.



- 18 -
TraiEnin
59.      Preparation work for the Government's TDP and the proposed project
has identified a number of weaknesses in the training programs available
for prospective and existing workers and managers of textile operations.
The proposed project therefore includes fundirLg for consultants to work
with the agencies involved in training for the textile sector to prepare a
comprehensive training program; the Textile IrLstitute (TI), a quasi-
government/private industry association, would be delegated the lead for
this work, and collaborate with the various ministries, agencies and
universities involved. Satisfacitory terms cf reference for the study have
been prepared, and the study would be initiated by October :31, 1984 and
completed by May 30, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section  3.03 (d)).  In the
meantime, a specific need for training equipment for the ongoing textiles
training programs at the University of Minhc has already been clearly
identified; this equipment (estimated to cost about $250,00() equivalent)
would be financed under the project.
60.      The TI also provides some training and standardization and quality
corntrol services to the textile industy, which are in need of upgrading.
The project would provide financing for the purchase of additional and
improved laboratory equipment (about $150,000 equivalent) for the TI, so
that it can assist Portuguese exporters to maiintain EEC market specifi-
cations. Procurement of the equipment for the Training Component would be
completed by May 30, 1985. The project would also provide advanced
training in textile technology for staff of the agencies involved in the
sector (MIE, TI, and IAPMEI); course work (estimated to cost about $150,000
equivalent) would be at the Masters level (3 persons for 24 months each)
and 10 persons for 6 months each of short courses in textile technology.
Disbursement
61.      The simplified disbursement procedures established under the SMI
projects would be applied for the line of credit component.  The BdP would
provide refinance to the PFIs for eligible subprojects, on the basis of
full documentation of the expenses actually incurred for each subproject.
The BdP would then prepare reimbursement requests for withdrawals from the
Bank loan in statements of expenditure. No Bank reimbursement would be
made for expenditures incurred more than. (i) 90 days prior to receipt by
BdP of the free-limit subproject dossiers from the PFIs, and (ii) 120 days
prior to the Bank's approval of subprojects above the free-limit (Loan
Agreement, Section 2.02 (b)).
62.      Withdrawals for the Technical Assistance Component would be on the
basis of statements of expenditure, to finance up to 50 percent of the cost
of the expert services for the enterprises, up to a maximum of $20,000
equivalent per subproject, and 100 percent of the cost of expert services
for the TRU.  The Training Component would finance 100 percent of the costs
and would be disbursed on the basis of statements of expenditure for those
items costing less than $10,000 equivalent in foreign exchange and $20,000
equivalent in local currency; all other disbursements would be against full
documentation.



- 19 -
63.      Special accounts Would be established as revolving funds witb a
financial institution to manage the disbursements of the loan proceeds for
the Line of Credit Component and the Technical Assistance and Training
Components (Loan Agreement, Sections 2.02 (c) and (d)).  It would be a
condition of effectiveness that these accounts be opened (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01 (c)). The special account for the Line of Credit Component
would be established in escudos and receive on initial deposit of the
equivalent of $3,600,000;0 the special account for the Technical Asssistance
and Training Components would be established in US dollars and receive an
initial deposit of $160,000. These accounts would be replenished upon
receipt of the appropriate withdrawal requests. The Closing Date for
withdrawals from the loan account would be June 30, 1989.
Audit
64.      The subproject records and accounts maintained by BdP would be
audited each year by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank; a copy
of such audit, including a statement certifying the validity of the loan
withdrawal requests made by BdP on the basis of statements of expenditure,
would be prepared and furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year. The Bank has reviewed the legal provisions establishing
BdP's audit council, and considers them satisfactory for these purposes.
Expenditures for the Technical Assistance and Training Components would be
audited by an auditor satisfactory to the Bank; the report would be pre-
pared and furnished to the Bank within four months of the end of the fiscal
year.
Textile Restructuring Incentives
65.      The proposed projiect is in full conformity with the draft TDP, and
can be thought of as a pilot of this approach. The proposed project would
provide resources, technical assistance, and technical and financial
guidelines to launch the restructuring program at the enterprise level.
Periodic consultations between the Government and the Bank would continue,
to assist with the development of improvements to the overall incentive
program, as well as those for the specific subsectors. The Government
would, by December 31, 1984, prepare for enactment the necessary legis-
lation to implement the TDP, incorporating textile restructuring incentives
formulated in collaboration with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Benefits and Risks
66.      The major benefit of the proposed project would be the initiation
of the much needed restructuring for the textile industry. The project is
expected to assist about 40 textile enterprises, with restructuring invest-
ments to create/maintain about 1,700 jobs. In addition to the expected
benefits for the individual textile enterprises in the form of improved
competitiveness, profits and exports, the project would also yield
important sector-wide and industry-wide benefits through the institution



- 20 -
building components. As a pilot project, it would assist the Government in
formulating effective policies for textile restructuring and may set an
example for other subsector programs. The project would also complement
the ongoing efforts under the SMI projects to upgrade the appraisal and
service capacities of the domestic financial institutions and technical
service agencies.
67.      The major risks associated with the project are slower than
expected utilization of the investment funds and lower than expected
returns from the individual restructuring investments. To minimize these
risks, the project includes special incentives for the enterprises to use
expert services to design better financially and economically viable
investment projects, which would increase their chances of success. The
project also provides incentives to the PFIs via the credit ceiling incen-
tive to encourage the use of the refinance facility under the proposed
loan. Serious disruptions and/or departures in implementation may also be
avoided with the careful monitoring and coordination arrangements proposed
for the TRU. Given the importance of the textile sector in the Portuguese
economy, the complex nature of the restructuring process, and the good
prospects for the sector in the future, the risks are considered acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided, for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
69.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.  Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that; (i) the
agency agreement between the Government and the BdP, satisfactory to the
Bank, be executed; (ii) the project protocol with the Participating Finan-
cial Institutions, BdP and the Government, satisfactory to the Bank, be
executed; and (iii) the special accounts for the Line of Credit Component
and the Technical Assistance ancd Training Cornponents be opened (Loan
Agreement, Sections 5.01 (a), (b), and (c)).
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loani.
A.W. Clausen
President
by A.M. Qureshi
Washington, D.C.
April 27, 1984



-21-                                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E 3A
PORTUGAL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PDRTUGAL                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                       (MUST RECENT ESTDIATE) /b
1960/b  1970/b  RECENT  MIDDLE INCOME         INDUSTRIAL
1960-       1970-  ESTDtATNk                EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
AREA (TbAIND SQ.   )
TOTAL                                  92.1         92.1         92.1
AGRICULTURAL                           48.4         43.1         40.8
GnP PER CAPITA (US$)                     350.0        890.0       2520.0              2453.6                    11112.7
ENERGY CONSUMION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        536.0       1077.0       1822.0              1580.8                     7500.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    8826.0         9044.0       9826.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)          22.5         26.2         31.2                47.8                       78.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 11.4
STATIONARY POPrJLATION (MILL)                                 14.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          95.9         98.2       105.9                 82.0                     139.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              182.4       210.1        239.0                157.2                     514.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            29.2         28.4        26.5                 31.9                      22.4
15-64 YRS                            62.9         61.9        63.3                 60.9                      66.0
65 AND ABOVE                          8.0          9.7        10.1                  7.2                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 0.5/c        0.2/c        0.8/c               1.6                        0.8
URBAN                                 2.1          1.8          2.3                 3.4                        1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           24.2         19.1         16.3                25.0                       13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           10.8         10.3          9.9                 9.1                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 1.5          1.5          1.1                 1.7                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (X OF MARRrED WOMEN)             ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          92.0        105.0         63.0               108.4                     112.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (1 OF REQIJIREMENTS)       119.0        128.0       129.0                129.6                      134.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             80.0         89.0        85.0                 92.3                      99.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           33.0         39.0         39.0/d              34.6                       61.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             9.2          5.0          1.4                10.4                        0.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          63.3         67.1         72.1                67.2                       74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          82.0         58.0        26.0                 71.4                      10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                28.9         34.5         65.0/e
URBAN                                82.1            .        9007Te
RURAL                                14.4           ..         56.07
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1250.0       1110.0       540.0               1094.8                     553.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              1420.0/f    1080.0         650.0/g             762.5                      182.9
(                              POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               180.0        170.0       190.0/d              334.0                     119.8
URBAN                                70.0/f       70.0        80.071              216.0                     143.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL. ED              ..          9.8         13.5/d              20.0                       17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHULD
TOTAL                                 3.9          3.7
URBAN                                 4.0           ..
RURAL                                 3.9           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                 1.1          0.8
URBAN                                 1.0           ..
RURAL                                 1.1           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (2 OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                40.5         64.2           ..                  ..
URBAN                                88.5           ..
RURAL                                27.4           ..
_- - - - - - - - - - - --_ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - _ _ _ _   _     _     _   _ . -_ _ _ -_ - -_ --__._ -_ _ _ -_ _ -_ -_ -_ - -_-_ _ -_ _ -_ -_ -_ - -_ - -_-_ _ -_ -_ _ -_ _ _ _ _ -_ - -_-_ -_ - -_-_ _ -_ _ _ -_ - -_ - -__ _ _ _ _ - -_ - -_-_ -_ -_ -_ -



-22-                                                          ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E  3A                                          PAGE 2
PORTUGAL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PORTUGAL                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME               INDUSTRIAL
1960/       1970- ESTIMATE-b        _        EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                       *-         98.0        118.0/g             102.2                      101.5
MALE                        ..        99.0        120.0/g             107.2                      103.3
FEM4ALE                     *-        96.0        116.Oj               97.9                      103.3
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       ..         57.0         55.0/d              56.5                       89.2
MALE                        .         63.0         54.07w              63.4                       84.5
FEMALE                      ..        51.0         56.7/d              48.9                       86.0
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)            46.4         33.6         16.5/d              22.4                       18.3
PtUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              34.0         34.0         19.0/g              24.7                       20.2
SECONDARY                            19.0         17.0         23.07f              22.1                       14.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                62.9         71.0         78.0                69.7                       98.9
CONSDlfPT loN
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            17.9         60.9        120.9/g              52.9                      356.5
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           96.1        151.3        161.6               165.5                     1085.4
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               5.2         43.0        141.7               124.2                      449.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               63.2         82.2         50.8                96.3                      331.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA         2.9          3.1          3.4                 2.9                        3.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            3397.0       3550.0      3797.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     17.9         24.8        25.9                 34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                44.1         33.3         28.2                40.7                        6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   29.0         33.2        35.1                 23.4                       37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                38.5         39.3         38.6                42.0                       45.5
MALE                                 66.0         62.3         60.4                55.2                       59.0
FEMALE                               13.2         18.5         19.0                29.1                       32.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.0          0.9                 0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
H'IGHEST 5Z OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         56.1/h,i    56.3/h,j               ''                       43.1
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          6.2/h,i      7.37W,               . .                       5.5
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         20.6/h,i    21.47WJ                ..                       16.5
POVERT! TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (tu$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..
RURAL                                  ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        480.O/d
RURAL                                  ..           ..       48O.07i              409.0.
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                                                      ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..                  ..                         ..                           )
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Due to emigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1962;
/g 1978; /h Highest 25%, lowest 252 and 50% of households; /i 1968; /J 1973-74.
May 1983



-23-                                                                        ANEX I
Page 3 o:E 5
osrosTnOs OF socal.L 1IfCATORs
tots:  Aithnoh ohI. do.           doo  fesotsgorlyJodo   h  soS,torttr od   oial, 10 sood also h. -oS .90  da-1y say so   ottrottol
ts.psr bls  ooo   of t.I lack of            .W.todrls   dsflototo     .0d too-pta oma  by di!ff_-o  cooots  o                IoSot   th  dat.-   Th.I dots aT..oosslo,  ofot to
dosortho oror.ifagttd.tdloat  t-ods, as chor.c.stois  -otaio  ajo-  dtff.r _c.s  _sasscoari
Th.  Iooso   rooo.() ft. sac  o-oor  Stoop of ft. sobJact --oy sod (2) a oooo-y trop  itht  ioa   hgtootj   tct  otat ohs root  gro   of ohs
soj    ottoy (optfr "HIh lot..0  Oill Rapottas ..            roop shot  'toEddlo lo-.  tyIth  Moot, a AMidds t.t   aot    bocauso of  tod                       oacotca
offi.ttotool 1. to hs roeoc         -sop data ohs  rso            rotlst_o eIghtod srftstcII1  mo-   for- oath iodtcoto  so,d ah-  ol  chtsaoit    f  f  coorto  to
gro  ha  data for thot, itdtcao-    Ib    h.cosrg   of  -otoo               .-soo   toh lad toator  dorpods .. thot ao1l.blitllt  of data so  tooc  ootoo  osso   toh
s=roJ.   l  re,latirn  asor-gs. of ot  todicator to s-oh-r   Thaoasrgs  a..Iol  osafo1 to cooprto   tho  -slo  of coo tdttatr  t a otro_ n5tOss coottoy 5
ABLA (oaao    qt.                                                                                                                      oootofoddb   olpof p..cotctos
I- Total sofc. a.     -sprtsi   laSd coo  As  blood flOts..; 1960,                                  ydt7i1oTtdrcamdtlsholootosoyIo.
--MOf sod 1980 dota.                                                                                  Fssltto   s  thrls   o.o            PpltltdIte   by toabo  of prtt-clog
jg     toloo    flst  ofagiclorioo   od  -spoarl.            o  prmely     y-....od  ocas.oodalttoros   astt .o out.et,...att icl  -usa  5d
orcr             =tpsora  s_rtl adSk htot.   sdsos 0-  t   to  falo;16.crsosolata
1970 sod 1911 data.                                                                                Posotosc  oytlSd     oa.sbo.a    oa  - "Ioatc  ttl
ortas, sod rorot) dAWio  b   t  ir toprc   costa  ofhoptlh.
091  M7  CdPITA lUS    sPprcpittsea tatstcot--  otkst prtoss,                                            _sotlatisto pohlot  5pt.o   otlsod                 spi-otolt-1sl hospital aol
r0I d172   oonplc    stbod asWold Sack Jclas (197-S~l hosts);                               _hat1itatfoo  _o_-ra   toapltalssaatsli'solopssostly sta ffs
I196, 1970, sod I90i data,                                                                             by at lootot  ppotit    "sal aoayoidtta ptioctP'ly  roI                         oi
A,                                                                                                    c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt. At, 00  Isldod.  food  hopital.hooo,lcoshst   o  
slty yu-nt  po   ait- paoo                    0 patotccotptts  of c-ta                            o  ca   slr   o  rs,o-sly a-ffad.byophsct(ocyadil
PRimary           ossrg  (O rt o s    Ioa, .oroo, taorl  0*5   loydo- .. ool.. 1                            isltc,tro  adtf,or   hich of.ttio,                   ilt  acsa o             da
sod  oothsca  alsotrtitlyl to hllog-s  of coal sqo~Io.t Pot cpits; l                                    porio    lifd rasg  cf oodital faci lOt iso   Pot sta .sIca   ptp
18,1970, sod 19Sf data.                                                                             o           it oslosIIoldo cfo" pcirialaosr           ospitals * aol roost
hospital., locl e  roe    o tis ad adioal  5  s-toroty osrs
popftoLOg AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                            tPsrtalls-dtho.pisalo  art .  ocldadti-                       tos ttl
Totol~~ol~.-sartttaods)  - ad of Joly 1; 19160, 1970, 55  1981                            slsiota  so    ootl  o       ca  ootohoo at= odof-"issoco   0  irto
r                                                                                                                                         foe hospitals dicidod by Ito tob- of hod..
Otho  osoaooo    aoot cf .tta) - Rtio of orbat so Otal. Npopitiot;
dtfsrst do11fisfoo   of  cht araay offr -cparohility of data                                       009
foot -ooltitas; 1960, 1970, sod 191dt.loa.ts    f   sshi   trusrtbostl)-ttl                                                                                              o.a   toa
~~~  l~~~~oor7ot popslaioo p-ojototoo   ar  hosad 00 1960                                     sod thIr iab o1.              osodor or lcdt say orsy tot hoiotlodsd Oo
sotalpopsiotos   by ass sod sosso    hot"  sorolloy so  froit                                      thohoto dforI Ittltirlpt1               aa
rts.. ,rojatios  -aaoor  for motality rate  coaprisoo-                  ts                        000  of        of = ..-.   ot.ot  Po  tost.    . orhot.ao  totl     -roag  toch
lI...oassatltos lif.              bptatya   itch Osorooio  oioh tottoY's, ra                        fPo.oc.. por to   Io all orho   ao .tota  orroiod root loc
oaislooaIss,sd ra-    lift sopo-soy o-tattlist  At 77.                                   daslloga, raspocolosly.          11' Iolog  oarlds ooc-po.o....ttt.. tarsaad
ossonio  dclita Oo foolilly   codistlut oco l.osl at  ps  fasily                                 mts    .t lcttrt   proto   ollo)-ttl   ta,a    oa
plaoi         ' otoaco   htc  tootr  is thas.. isst5o   000 of thosooooo                           C..o.otfooaldollg othsortlyIItlcqcr.asortao
cosbttoloos. or %ortloty .d ftttllty ttsoda for pro)soltoo porposo.                                oftoa, ta,sdtol do1llt...r...ro-r_lp.
Statiosat ooc1laioo - lo,, sostlotary ptphlsototl t1hars is oo grooh
slo tshs hitrltao t.  oqoa_l tohsdoat  Iat, ao  as  tho agEtOCATIOt
strcorooslotcsfst. Ths  a  chIod   tl  afoot fertility P5000                         AT-t   trolloo..t  -aioo
.a.h rs..tsrtiot ofss=r-plscs ittslfs -tly.  Th.ottor                                                 oclstcalosthfrstl_tlasstotgsofroopertre
iscls cfIto  opeotoooIc to   '50  Ootdo   h   so0  doY.sobrae  a   djot,d for dlff-r-o  10,0h0 of p:tasy ooatc    o
f.riloyaotorsltoo                 ss.rotisthoiors   drtcstscoyood100  otoo
YoT---    lor  oolso  i   ato  -Tho post. ohssottuary                                                   soscopota rshbo  talM                       too fnl  coloo
ooltot  ltsl  to2!    rscs.toolt   school ~2 - ttl.  sIa sod toast   1-  ptod  soaoe;oceodary
Po     N    o      id-yasr poosit pa  sqar iloss.Ost (100 toe taco) of                          -roidos g...r.. ,  ooit,   ortaoto  tr-icn  losrotte... for
toa 9a6; SO  1970, aod 1980 dato.                                                              Io     --"Yaoll  of I  to 17too. of .aa; croptor   oc                   r
yrs.a.srcIDora  las..  - CoIIptod as  hoe  for a,ttco1tora1 laod                               Psotalyso1 lb
ooly; 1960, 1970 aod 1980 data.                                                                    -tcat.ooal o.trl.s.et (torec.o  of oscoodtyf - v.cctlool-         ot1 tto
Porslattoo   -a cttor  (trreo   -Clds  (0-lu  pr.r.  -, tilu-g   (15-                                  loclodstcorl.saro,o  oth.tp' oa                          lo  oporsos iodrpo
84yos,sd o_tited  185 yat od err)soprrotgo    f oid-ysa                                      s"tY o   slpotoo    f socoedrytY toeti lets
rtpslatloc; 1960. 1970. aS  1981 laos.                                    tocil-tosthac  ratio  - crisaro, 55  asroedta...ry-"fetald c'  dstyo-ettaserollI-11Iloi
yorolsosoocoaotoao(trreot-roa-solto                    ooototasi-prloatyssertdryo-lod                                          toi, dsdtyeoItsr   of toarthot.o It aot
y-s  popslatlr. fot 1950-0, 1980-0, ao..   197G-81.                                                  .o..oodiu  1oe-i.
taolato   Orot.      ot-h   srat  - oth'. - astoa  stooh  --ot of orhoc                              oolt llt-octot -                  -rot   -Lt-rt  adults (solo to roo  al  Ob) 0
ropoatloos for 195'-tO. .16-70, aol1970-81.                                                          a  otosotogo  ef teo      Noo porlot lee aOad 11 posts .td00.
Crol   Sirtth Rts (pot thoossoll - brett  lots- hittlo  pot thoocaud of all-
y-s  popiatiot; 1960, 1970, sod 1901 dat.                                                        COtSUHITION
Crodo Docth Rato (to  tocoaaod( -  -aeol doaths po  Ioletatd of old-y-otPt.s.rost la-  (cot ihoo-oo   -ooaoc   -tat0r  aso tisosco
1960too   lh, 1970, sod 1981 dat.                                                             ca'olssotto  Isos that sight pa ....s  setlls             1 ..o...ss  h-aostsod
NEo  2yPpodortioo Sate -dorae         doho   f    ghtsrsa aea  sl1ha  to                                ititrps lrleo
_Wtiibp,S.iFl_etot ifd           h  ooslIoo .      rso I    o-spo"ti                           sl  toocts (rt ohooselpoclsioc                 Al0  typsa of  -eri--r for radt
forolloyratss;aa-a   y fir-Y.so.. sorago  stdtsit 1960, 1971, sod                                  t,roadoasos to g:eostal Pohltcpttoso    fppoo  o;ocoo
of l   P tol-tar      o     I. _1-44  rcro  cIt coo  hlo-retr PI.r..         oI  rtor Iioodlrococrgsrrooo   looo
foc 1PIaotlItt ..lnto-i`olofo-I                                                                         .. - to of-   Il tarot...    NIrorort-        wpor"  dot torI--   T, a__-odco
eto of toe  trdottot  ot   IpIt   f11-71-dI    ---d- fpo   apt                                     ohl    -oo        tcoor   --oeol  00rrr.-         co o     tf s     It  ,  o-ldr
arot_l Pr,or lot    f alfo    olis                tdriooootdlrotdaod                                 to h -  doal1y" if itaprar oot (roar fotitsoo ot
fasd aod 'a 00 rolsod-  yas  host.         Ctdtlaoo   poostygos(..Cit..a  Mota  octeot-  pot Cartot Mlt loop - osood to the.tto   of
soo-ctao   -tosoo  of soga) sihoo  .,Siblts sod ...ttatoi           tsoa(rs                          ottlos  sold dotioe  tho toot, . toloditon      l ot  odIrto            coo os a
tossd 00 tattotl sosrase proo          Pt prir  os ls   981-6' 1970, sod 198
-tSoyoqotsloot of ot food  .,Pp  :_ilososlbl  it tootry po  tpOspc ors  sod oeolytd bet 00.101100 hoo-i-es,  -odrut, It00-. -itoto
day.   sailtlo  syplis topti.. domstI  yrodocttoc,  pImprt  lose                              NPoplalo  o  oll ags.  ftfolo   to  -sloscoors   ore Oct..
solotta.55  hoag. t  stok.  Rt sppila srlodsolet fod,  sal,                 r-partibs; 1960,190tO 08Oas
qtttlts   osd  t  oodprcrsto,  odboos  o   lotlhtt.Fos...   (roroo    F-.f1a  1ab-c fotraat                                 ocotg   of tetl   shr  ors
Osootossaa tos solsi-d by PAO bto.S  00 physiologita1 ro,d  fo   o lAgrtocltots  (osor..ttI - (,abut forrs ie fat-i     frary    ot o   o
attysdtolth ...taidorogsotrosotl  osorto, lodp  iothts,fst7a   oreorofrtllhtfno    90 %-1070 aol 1901 doo
og   o   0   lttih io ofppltt, s al_utg1   aco   o   at                                      Imoatty  f -c-Ot  - L.a'o- fotro  fto .100.tttrto,ooftoot
so hosahld  ltol,191165,1970 sob 1980 data.                                                       sod rotr ty, ca-toro    Nao               -- croo    of tota  lohor forts; 1960,
Pot cat a  ooorl   f ccotIt  (sona  re  Iso) - yto--o  co.tout of Psrrstpitt                      097  stl. 1911 data.
oa  spply of lfood  pot day   No   opyo   odi   oos   saot.ttllaitho   t  oe   - total  ado   oe  frool-ratilolta
Rqieqttsastt  for all reotoiro  sotoshliod by USDA pt-itds for ,sitto                                at..itytsttstttosp toda  too                       Ida         Io lc lsb(ho  for-o
ailoo-.ts. of tO orso  of total pottPor day sod 20 cArt              o  soso  so                     pt.sttsgscft......  .ao sod f..oale  Npeplatt   of- ol logo   -oepctlosly
pos    rsi,of `hi`h 10 5tan  oh.-Id ho stimal prosot.  Th...                                 1960, 1970, aol 191E  laos.  7hs   r   orlcooo   port ...pc  ic  rtes
aala tla  aro 1tos  ottts   f75 stisc.oa.rdsl   t   7gasrfooigaessarcoo  ftspplto,al bog i. t                                                                              -oter
of sla                          ..tl   o  rctg   to.. rsrb. d oh.dt  r    t                          ftatooaooa  ar  free eloIf "Iroo
TIrid Wocld tool Soty; 1961IS 16,  970 aol 1980 laos,                                               to....    Ot ler  Ratio - RitIocf popolsilo  -d-t 15 sod 65 sod ett
ftopcco    reac         o1  from  aulma  sod  robsI - Ptrtslo  sopply of fool                          tho otaI latbr forro.
Isiodtro  aisala  55 _plso   to  ra   pot ds.; 1961-65, 1970 aol 1977
data.                                                                                            INCItIE DISTR01UTI.
Chiold (aso1.)oth  Rats (pat rtho-dl -   -sooo  d-aho   o  thooood to                                I6rrtg   of PrleIto  (crest (hr- t rsh to             l,,h   R-cOttfe    by  -ih-ot
r                   asosroopl-l,sots,~~~~torild_stlto        i.osseotoop;fo        aterlOo                                ptoo  rihtllrrot pors tOpetre-   sodc-rro     Nlpret of
toAcLss da.ta derieo   fros lift  tabOos 1 1960, 1970 atd (981 bas                                   h-hsoolde.
t(7    totah o   a  Itrh  css  -              -bta0ttho   of pssof litotoastlegT YFfl.llhin   -asesa Icryspproatats-                                  aossof pu-oty Ir-ol, so
al rb   1960, 1970 aS181lo.                                                                       hod ho itptetyrsood slot tetod-tblo  otlt
ofa-   ttotolittp  Rts (pto thoossod) - M oos  dost   floatodt  coof  "fotlatdAoosPoe-cty let-ctoa    _I)  o  tcta    oro   o   total1
Y:s. of .o pot thoao   Ies births; 196,  I107  aIl 1901 dots.                                        dbelo   postry i-ts  1-1s Is that loae  sa Itblos stoo,aatl
Oococ  f popl  (tta, otot  so  rual  slo  rsaoa loatesooaf                                  atlobloi.                                                       --.o.d    .
saiar ",to  as ptthtos  oftorrspciepplslo.It                                                     porsoool .t.'`  --   tocts ottscoY t. r_ .             oro fs ele   Ores Ohs coral
orotroaol      tfetot  orftsorlrtdstst th                       at~ ~ i-N   010 aIsaltl00  odoost    o th                       0hor coa 1bof1 1i liel   ,iororhtara..       -
sashors ofohs tottohld  do ed-to. 0  ..spoo   a dopc-ottst  por  of                      poorh                                       o  ~l     ~             ...
ot -uoostoft           ...t idapsal(dorro  ofl crlatico .  total.  ortl o   sod t%.-
totol-tootor of poop Os (tots 1, oohao, sod rural) sercod hys__o i trotsPo
Itoposal so porcartagos of ohs It roapsottee  popolotlots.  feorsta disposal
sa    thrl . o .Zhs r lso cod d i -opo-ol, sot  or dith-ottirostsop,   of                                                            ttrsi   o  OraFft    teoe
thI .sat focr taa    oots. -o,trbotr-oosytsorhoooptt-ttoorlslodtortoo                                                                                                        oarm
yroooEa.olclo   iotslstca.v                                                                                                                            toyti  1903.  t



ANNEX I
-- 24 -                                                                 FL-ge47o of S
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amoun.ts in Millions of LS Dollars)
Actual                       Annual Crowth Rate (Q)                    Share of GDP at M.srket
1982                                 Actual                         Prices (Current Prices)
(tIlEsc. 79.473.       1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982             1977   1980   1981   1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/                  23,711          5,6    3.2    4.5    4.9        0.8      3.0       100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agricuiture                                  2,028       -10.0    4.0    9.0       3.0  -13,2    6.0           12.2   10.2    8.3    8.6
industry                                    9,118          9.5     3.2     5.0    6.0      1.6     2.4         25.4   30.0   29.4   29.3
Services                                   12,565          5,9    3.0      3.5    4.5      2.8    2.8          62.4   59.8   62.3   62.1
Consumption b/                             29,615          2.6      1.5    2.4    4.5      3.2    2.8          88.7   80.9   83.4   82.7
Gross Investment                           8&662          34.7   -4.7   -2.1   14.7    5.1    4.9              29.7   33.8   35.9   36.5
Exports of GNFS                             5, 804         5.9   14.6   27.3    8.3   -2.8         5.8         17.1   27.1   25.5   24.5
Imports of GNFS                            10,370         12.0   -1.8      7.8   12.8    6.7    5.6            33.2   41.8   44,8   43.7
Gross National Savings                                    25.9   23.6   34.3   17.8  -10.5   -0.2              1 .3   20.5   23.8   23.3
Prices
Rate of Inflation (Consumer Price Index)                26.0   19.3   24.3    17.0   20.0   22.4
Excaange Rate                                           38,28  43.94  43.92  50,06  61.5   79.5
MEROHANDISE TRADE                                      Annual Groaith Rates at Constant 1970 Prices              As Percent of Tctal
--                                            1970   1975   1980   1962
imports                                     9,528         12.8   -2.1      6.7    9 0   5.6        6.4       100.0  100.0  100.C  100.0
Fooa                                      1,117         -7.5   -3.1   16.9    8.7   4.6          4.4         11.0   16.6    9.3   11.7
Otner Consumer Goods                        948        -23.9   -9.7    4.1   10 9   1.7          6.7          9.3    8.3    6.1   10.0
Petroleum Products                        2,470         - .    10.6   15.3    2.5  -7.7         14.7          9.5   16.4   24.3   25.9
Intermediate Goods                        2,507         i9.4   -3.5      3.3   10.9   0.0        2.6        41.5   36.8   37.5   26.4
Capital Goods                             2,486         26.7   -5.8    3.6   11.0  16,0          4.5        28.6   21.9   22.8   26.0
Exports                                     4,187          4,.   11.1   29.3    7.1  -2.0    11.2             100).0  100.0   Od0.0  100,0
Agriculture and Food                        486          1,3     3.6   15.3   -1.0  -8.8         7.0        20.9   16.8   12.1   11.6
Wood, CorK, Paper and Pulp                  620         -3.8    3.3   28.2   17.3  -6.8          6.4         16.1   15.9   17.7   14,8
Textiles and Clothing                     1,218        -0.5   22.1   26.2   -8.0   4.1          18.9        25.4   27.3   25.2   29,1
Petroleum Products                          292          1.C0   9.6   33.6   50.0  10.0    23.3                ..      ..    6.3      7,0
Other Manufactures                        1,571                                 13.0  -5.2      16.3         36.7   40.0   38.8   37.5
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                      1975=1CD                 1980=100
Export Price Index                                     145.1  179.0  279.1  315 T  113.2   131.9
Import Price Index                                     143.9  177.5  260.0  381.0 121.2   141.7
Terms of Trade Index                                   100.,1  100.8   95.5   82.9  93.4    93.1
Current Prices (Billion Escudos)                 As Percent of GDP at Marlket Prices
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                 1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  19&2
Current Receipts                                       173.6  212.2  264.3  362.6 449.7   536.7             27.9  27.2  26.9  29.3  30.1  28.5
Current Expenditures                                   182.1  238.5  302.2  404.6 526.3   643.6             29.3  30.6  30.7  32.6  35,2  34.1
Current Surplus/Deficit (-) of the State                -8.5  -26.3  -37.9  -42.0 -76.6   -79.9             -1.3  -3.4  -3.9  -3.4  -5.1  -4.2
Capital Expenditures (Net)                              34.5   39.1   4s2.7   64.3  68.2    83.8              6.4   5.0   4.3   5.2   4.6   4.5
Net Financing Requirements                              43.C   65.4   90.6  106.3 144.8   163.7               8.0   8.4   8.2   8.6   9.7   8.7
Financing Needs                                         44.7   75.8   97.1  127.4 163.8   189.6               7.2   9.7   9,9  10.3  10.9  10.1
Debt Amortization                                       -1.7  -10.4  -16.5  -21.1 -18.2   -25.9               0.3   1.3   1,7   1.7  12,2   1.4
d /'
LABO3R FORCE_                                                              TOTAL LABOR FORCE c/
In Thousands                                 Percent of Total                         Annual
Growth Rate(%)
1978    1979      1980    1981      1982 d/        1J78   1979   1980   1981        1982             1980-81
Agriculture                1,187    1,176   1,120   1,058   1,051               31.8   30.9   29.9   26.7        26.5              -5.5
Inclustry                  1,283   .1,323   1,387   1,424   1,440               34,4   35.1   35.6   35.9        36.3              62.7
Services                   1,259   1,352   1,417   1,486   1,477                33.8   34.0   34.5   37.4    37.2                  +4.9
Total                    3,729   3,851   3,924   3,968   3,968              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0                    1.1
a/ At market prices. For 1960-79 sectoral components; are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net ind2reci5
taxes and subsidies.
b/ Statistical discrepancy is included in the consumption data.
c/ Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
d/ First semester.
February 17, 1984
t0340G)



ANMEX I
- 25 -                                                                      Page 5 of S
BALANCE OF PAYHENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Amounts in NiliMans of US Dollars *t Current Prices)
Actua 
Est.
SUM4ARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS         1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  L979   1980   1981  1982   1983
Exports (F.O.B.)                    2238  1936  1790  2001  2379  3550   4575   4088  4119   4597
Imports (F.O.B.J                    4277  3606  3965  4533  4787  6182   8781   9240  8590   7259
Trade Balance (X-M)                -239 -1670 -2175 -2532 -2408  2632   4 206  -5152 -44_7   -2662
Net Non-Factor Services            -74  -170    54    B2   276   541    568    431   176    250
Tourism  Receipts (Gross)         (513) (360) (327) (403) (592) (942) (1148) (1024) (858)  (840)
Resource Balance                   -2113 -1839 -121 -2450 -2132 -2091  -3638  -4721 -4647  -2412
Not Inve-stent Income a!             129   -14  -133  -179  -329  -437   -612   -991 -1245  -1500
Net Transfers b/                    1111  1037   964  11:14  1635  2476   3000   2917  2661   2207
C                  Balance on Current Account          -873  -817 -1290 -1495  -826   -52  -1250  -2795 -3231  -1705
Direct Foreign 1nvest.ent            109   122    51   '52    56    59    126    147   122
Cnanges in Otffcial Liquid
Foreign Exchange Reserves
(- = Increa..)                   554   688   129   359  -103   -68    179    284    76           54
Off-cial Reserves
Gross End of Year c/              6317  4278  3905  4343  5872 1.2262  13864   9335  9609   7785
Of which:  Gold                   5192  3887  3729  3971  5001 1 1331  13069   8801  9162   7448
Foreign Exchange      1125   390   176   366   871   931  - 795    534   447    337
Actusa1
Eat.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMIThENTS                                                                             DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE d/  1976 1977 1978 1979  1980  1981  1982
Olficia. Grants and Grant-like                3    -      -      -      -                            Total MLT Debt Outstand-
ing and Disbursed -
P.bilc M6LT Loans                                                                                      Public Debt Only          1378 2266 2862 5283  6365  7160  9099
IBRD                                 .           36    74   131   143    134    120    -   Interest on Public Debt               41   78  154  :124   467   797   871
IDA                                              -      -      -     -       -       -     -   Repay.ents on Public Debt    102  140  257  117   510   689   703
Other Multilateral                  . .     4   123    87   112    89    187    243   472  Total Public Debt Service    143  218  411  '42   977  1486  1574
G'over-rents                        ..    71   156   428   915   237    187    176    24
5uppl-rs                            ..    54    4'    73    56        4    106    143    14
Public Debt Service Ratio    4.1  5.4  7.9  ".5  14.6  16.3  18.6
h/
Finan.al lMarkets                   ..    99   388   404   766  1063   1217   2115  1750
Public Loans n.e...                        -      -     -                 -            -
Total Public MELT Loans              460   228   744  1066  1980  1536   1831   2797  2260    Average Terms of Public
Debt (Grant Element)       11.1 12.9  4.5 -2.8   0.4   4.2   4.1
Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1982                     Interest on Public Debt I    6.3  6.8  7.6  7.5   8.1   9.6   9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT                                Disbursed Only             Percent
IBRD                                             185                    2.0                       Atortization as I prior
IDA                                                --                                               Year Public DO6D              9.6 10.1 11.3 14.6   9.7  10.8   9.8
Other Multilateral                               972                   10.7                       IBRD Debt Outstanding
Goveroments (Bilateral Loans)                   1308                   14.4                         and Disbursed                35.6 32.2 36.1 63.1 109.4 132.0 184.7
Suppliers' Credits                               307                    3.4                       IBRD DOID as I Public Debt
Financial Institutions                          6327                  69.5                          Outstanding and Disbursed  2.6  1.4  1.3  1.2   1.7   1.8   2.0
Total Public and Publicly Guaranteed Debt   9099 e/                   96.2                        IBRD Debt Service as I
Total Public and Private MSLT Debt f/              9457                lOO.0                         Public Debt Service           4.3  3.1  1.8  1.7   2.0   1.7   2.6
Short-term Debt (Estimated) yI                  3917
a/  Largely interest payments.
E/  Largely workers' remrittances.
cy Gold valued at the end of period London market price, and Special Draving Rights.
d/  Debt service as a ratoo of earnings from exports, noo-factor services and workers' remittances (on medium- and long-ten-  debt only>.
e/ Estimate for public debt and public0y guaranteed debt based on Treaisry data processed by the World Bank Debt Reporting System.
f/  Includes $358 million of private non-guaranteed debt (not included in DRS).
j/  Source:  bank of Portugal.
h/  If short-term interest payments on Public Debt and total debt service on non-guaranteed private debt are added, the debt service rstio would reach 27.8I
in 1982 (IMF estimates).
Not available.
Europe, Middle East and North Afiic. Region
March B, 1984
(34007



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
As of March 31, 1984
($ million)
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year      Borrower                 Purpose               Bank       Undisbursed
Six loans for power development, one for
industrial finance, and one for industry
fully disbursed                                         197.5           -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal       Highways                 24.0             0.1
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal       Water Supply             40.0           16.6
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal       Education I              21.0            12.1
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal       Agricultural Credit    15.0              11.9
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal       Highways II              40.0           27.0
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal       Small and Medium
Industry (SMI) I       45.0           18.2
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal       Education II             40.0            34.8
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal       Forestry                 50.0            37.3
1874 1980 COMETNA 2/                 Mechanical Industry    25.8               6.7
1875 1980 SOREFAME 2/                Mechanical Industry       8.1             0.1
1942 1981Banco de Fomento NacionaL Development Finance   100.0                76.4
2024 1981 PETROGAL                   Petroleum Exploration  20.0               5.7
2168 1982 Republic of Portugal       Industrial Energy
Conservation           30.0            29.6
2175 1982 Republic of Portugal       Tras-os-Montes Rural
Development            51.0            50.9
2240 1983 Electricidade de
Portugal, EdP             Power VII              126.4           105.6
2263 1983 Republic of Portugal       SMI II                   40.3           40.0
TOTAL                                              874.1          473.0
of which has been repaid                         129.0
TOTAL now outstanding                              745.1
Amount sold                           2.6
of which has been repaid             2.5            0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank 31                          745.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                                 473.0
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
Year         Obligor              Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1981 SPI Sociedade Portuguesa   Development Finance   10.0          1.0      11.0
de Investimentos, SARL       Company
1983 Sociedade Portuguesa de    Money and Capital           -       0.3       0.3
Locacao Financiera, SARL   Market
1984 Soltejo - Sociedade Hoteleira                         2.0       -        2.0
DoTejo, SARL                 Tourism
TOTAL Gross Commitments                          10.0     1.3      11.3
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales                             -        -         -
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC                12.0     1.3      13.3
TOTAL Undisbursed                                 3.1      -        3.1



28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PORTUGAL
Textile Industrv Develent Restructuring P            t
2SUplementa      o ect  DatSa heet
Section I;  Timetable of Key  venLts
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare
the project                                  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:           Ministry of Industry and
Energy
(c)  Date of first presentation to the            August 1977
Bank; date of first Bank mission             June 1980
to consider the project;
(d)  Date of negotiations;                        April 1984
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness;               September 1984
Section II; Special Bank Implemeintation Actions
Appraise jointly with each PFI first three appraisal reports for each
PFI to ensure quality control on technical appraisal standards (para. 51).
Section III; Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of effectiveness:
(a) The agency agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the
Government and BdP be executed (para. 44);
(b) The project protocol satisfactory to the Bank, with BdP, the
Government, and the specified financial institutions, be signed
(para. 45); and
(c)  The special accounts for the Line of Credit Component and the
Technical Assistance and Training Components be opened (para. 63).
2.        Other conditions;
(a) The current credit ceiling incentive scheme, whereby a
participating financial institution s monthly credit ceiling is
adjusted by the amount of the line of credit it utilized, would be
continued (para. 47);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The Government would carry out an analysis of the basis for the
allocation of the differential between the interest rate charged
on the Bank loan and that charged to the final borrowers by
December 31, 1984, and review with the Bank the conclusions and
recommendations of this analysis; the allocation of the
differential for this project would be revised thereafter as
needed in agreement with the Bank (para 48);
(c) The study of training needs for the textile sector would be
initiated by October 31, 1984 and completed by May 30, 1985
(para. 59); and
(d)  The Government would by December 31, 1984, prepare for enactment
the necessary legislation to implement the TDP, incorporating
textile restructuring incentives formulated in collaboration with
the Bank (para. 65).






