Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3308 
Operation Name 
Social Sectors Institutional Reform Development Policy Loan 
(SIR DPL II) 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Health (45%);General education sector (45%);Other social 
services (10%) 
Project ID 
P102160 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 6, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 16, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 27, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Social Sectors Institutional Reform Development Policy Loan II (SIR DPL II or simply DPL II) is the 
second phase of three planned Social Sectors Institutional Reform - Development Policy Loans.  The 
proposed loans are intended to support the Government of Bulgaria (GoB) to meet some of the 
challenges associated with EU accession 
—in the case of DPL I— and post-accession —DPL II and III.  
In particular the DPL series would support the adoption and implementation of policies to (i) increase 
employment and lay the foundations for long-term productivity growth by providing incentives for job 
creation and improving quality of education and; (ii) promote fiscal sustainability through efficiency 
gains in social sectors and improve access to social services.  The policies supported by the DPL 
program are expected to lead to increased convergence of policies and outcomes with EU standards, 
enhanced competitiveness through increased productivity and skills of the labor force and improved 
regulatory framework of firms, more efficient health, education, and social assistance systems, and a 
more equitable access to basic social services.  The focus of this DPL series reflects the Government’s 
social sectors and productivity agenda and its strategic use of multilateral organizations support to 
implement reforms and improve outcomes in sectors that remain outside the sphere of intervention of 
the European Union. 
 
The issues tackled by the DPL II are relevant for the post-accession agenda because of their focus on 
competitiveness, fiscal sustainability, and social inclusion, issues that have been highlighted by the EU 
both before and after accession.  In the European Union, health, social protection and education policies 
are not governed by the acquis communautaire, which means they are treated as national affairs and 
therefore differ widely among countries.  However they are increasingly subject to a process of policy 
exchanges and mutual learning among Member States called the Open Method of Coordination, first 
introduced for the purpose of social policy at the 2000 Lisbon European Council.
 1
 There are at least four 
1
During the meeting of the European Council in Lisbon (March 2000), the Heads of State launched a "Lisbon Strategy" 
aimed at making the European Union (EU) a more competitive economy and achieving full employment by 2010. This 
strategy rests on three pillars: (i) an 
economic pillar 
preparing the ground for the transition to a competitive, knowledge-
based economy. Emphasis is placed on the need to adapt constantly to changes in the information society and to boost 
research and development; (ii) a 
social pillar 
designed to modernize the European social model by investing in human 
Page  2
arguments supporting interventions in the social sectors in a European context: (i) fostering economic 
competitiveness to fulfill the parameters set by the Lisbon agenda; (ii) improving the fiscal outlook in 
preparation for the adoption of the Euro; (iii) harmonizing and converging to EU standards; and (iv) 
participating effectively in the Open Method of Coordination.   
 
The main strategic choices adopted by the Board of Directors when approving DPL I are maintained in 
DPL II.  First, as an EU Member State, Bulgaria is an advanced client with many outside options for 
both borrowing and technical assistance 
—this is the only DPL program with a EU member state.  Thus 
the Bank is providing high level policy advice and TA in addition to budget support.  Second, an 
advanced client requires a very streamlined approach, focusing on a few very significant policies and 
concentrating the TA on those policies too. Third, the DPL is focusing on strengthening the 
implementation capacity of the government to support its strategies and policies.  The Bank provided 
significant input into the design of the various sector strategies and EU related documents like the 
National Reform Program; however, these remain at a highly abstract level and the value added of the 
DPL series can also be seen in supporting specific actions —with a timeframe and a monitoring 
mechanism— that will lead to successful implementation of the strategies.  The DPL program continues 
to follow Government’s request to provide support for reforms in the social sectors mainly and 
emphasize policies to increase labor productivity. 
 
In spite of slightly heightened risks vis-à-vis DPL I, the Government remains committed to the goal of 
convergence to EU standards.  Accession seems to have strengthened this conviction and highlighted the 
gap between Bulgaria’s socio-economic indicators and those of the other EU members.  The government 
is convinced that one of the pillars to achieve convergence while maintaining fiscal discipline is a well 
functioning labor market and a more efficient delivery of basic social services to the entire population.  
And recent public statements by the highest authorities in the Government highlighted the need to 
continue reforming the social sectors —health and education.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The DPL series continues to support some of the overarching objectives stated in the CPS.
 
These 
are: (i) Increase employment and lay the foundations for long-term productivity growth by providing 
incentives for job creation and improving quality of education and; (ii) Promote fiscal sustainability 
through efficiency gains in social sectors and improve access to social services.  A description of the 
actions being supported by the DPL under each objective and the expected outcomes follows. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
resources and combating social exclusion 
—investing in education and training, and conducting an active policy for 
employment; (iii) an environmental pillar, which draws attention to the fact that economic growth must be decoupled from 
the use of natural resources.  Given that the policies in question fall almost exclusively within the sphere of competence of 
the Member States, an open method of coordination (OMC) entailing the development of national action plans has been 
introduced. Besides the broad economic policy guidelines, the Lisbon Strategy provides for the adaptation and strengthening 
of existing coordination mechanisms.   
Page  3
The objectives of the reform strategy supported by the DPL program are to be achieved through the 
implementation of policies and actions oriented towards 
×
Creating incentives for individuals to join the labor market and to move to higher productivity jobs 
×
Improving the institutional and regulatory framework so that it is easier for companies to start new 
businesses and to hire workers, and for labor to be mobile 
×
Improving quality of education and skills of workers so that productivity increases 
×
Create incentives for the adoption of new technologies and investment in R&D to increase 
productivity of labor 
×
Changing the financing mechanisms of health (hospitals) and basic education services to make the 
systems financially sustainable and improve their quality 
×
Restructuring the health facilities network 
×
Increasing access to pharmaceuticals and promote rational purchasing and reimbursement policies 
Promoting monitoring and evaluation of policies 
 
The main change to the DPL program relative to the one envisioned during preparation of DPL I is the 
inclusion of new actions to enhance labor productivity.  Specifically a broader view of job creation is 
taken in the DPL II and III, along the lines of the “MILES” approach.  This approach maintains that a 
multi-sector strategy is necessary in order to increase productivity and foster employment growth, 
involving at least five areas: (i) macroeconomic stability; (ii) improving the investment climate; (iii) 
labor market reforms; (iv) improving education and skills; and (v) reforming the social safety net.  The 
new policies incorporated in DPL II and III are related to improving the investment climate and 
fostering skills acquisition through higher rate of innovation and adoption of new technologies. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
With view that this is a Development Policy Loan and has no direct effect on environment, no 
environment aspects have been envisaged, tackled, or planned. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
150 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Daniel Dulitzky 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2528 
Fax: (202) 614-0930 
Email: ddulitzky@worldbank.org
 
