Docmmnt of
Tae World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
R.epR No. 12015
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1463-NEP)
JUNE 18, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12015
Type: PCR
Population and muan Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(March 1984)
Nepalese Rupee (NR) 1.00 - US$0.0671
US$1.00 = NRs 14.9
(September 1992)
Nepalese Rupee (NR) 1.00 - US$0.0234
US$1.00 - Nas 42.7
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
BPEP        -     Basic and Primary Education Project
CTSDC       -     Curriculum, Textbook, Supervision Development Center
DANIDA      -     Danish International Development Agency
DEO         -     District Edacation Office/Officer
EFA         -     Education for All
FC          -     Field Coordinator
aMG         -     His Majesty's Government
IDA         -     International Development Association
MOEC        -     Ministry of Education and Culture
NEC         -     National Education Commission
NESP        -     New Education System Plan
OCE         -     Office of Comptroller of Examinations
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PEP         -     Primary Education Project
PIU         -     Project Implementation Unit
PMU         -     Primary Materials Unit
PSTU        -     Primary Supervision and Training Unit
RC          -     Resource Center
REO         -     Regional Education Office/Officer
RP          -     Resource Person
SDR         -     Special Drawing Rights
SETI        -     Education for Rural Development Project
SLC         -     School Leaving Certificate
SMC         -     School Management Committee
UNDP        -     United Np ions Development Programme
UNESCO      -     United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF      -     United Nations Children's Fund
Fiscal Year (FY) of Borrower
July 16-July 15



FOR O0C1AL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wahinton D.C. 20433
U.SA
om0   of DOetor4knora
June 18, 1993
MOMNDUM TO THE NXECTWE PIMLORS AM THRESn
SUBECT:  Project Compledon Report on Nepal
P mrEd ucat-on Prje  (C. 1463-N!)
Attachx is ihe Project Completion Report on Nepal - Primay Education
Project (Credit 1463-NEP) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part Il was
prepared by the Borrower.
ThM  pilot prqject in pmary education exceeded targets in terms of the
numbers of teachers, students and of nonformal program participants trained and is rated
satisfory. The successful establishment of a monitorng and evaluation capacity
provided a wealth of data. These outcomes led to a natioral follow-on project which will
help underpin Government commitment to prmary and basic educaton as the first
priority of the sector.
The overall outcome is rated as satisfactory. Gien the promising follow-on
project, sistainablity is rated as liye. Institutional development :s rated as partially
satisfactory: wile a corps of technical staff was attached to the project unit and district
personnel benefitted from project initiatives, the parent Ministry management, planning
and monitoring capacity remains weakt
The PCR provides a balanced asessment and thoughtfil insights on a
project which was implemented in a difficult environment
The project will not be audited.
Attachment
,ThI docn tm ha8 re*tod dst.bu&on nd may be used by ropWIn a,l In th p.dimae. of the ofdd
dud. b cont  may nWot o*hw    be dbosd  outWorld W ank a"auwhoh



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT CCdPLETIOX REPORT
NEPAL
PRIMY EWCATIO  PROJECT
(CREDIT 1463-NIP)
TABLB OPF CNTENTS
Page No.
Evaluation Sumary  . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   Lii.
PMT I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM IA'SS PESPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .   1
B. Project Background ...................                            1
C. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . ... . . .    3
D. Project C ompoont.....................                            4
E.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . .     . . .   5
F. Project Implemntation... ..........  .4....                      ............. 8
0. Major Results of the Project.. ............. .    9
BX. Project Susta X ability .                     *                         13
-.  ID Perfomance  . . . . e . . . .        . . . o . . . . . . .   13
J.  BorrowerPerfor   .ce...,...............  .   13
lo Consult$ng Services  **    o  o                             ,       14
L. Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . ...       14
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FRO BDORROWERS PER5PECTIVS
A.  Background . . . . 9  * * *    *    . . *  . . . . . . . . .   16
B. The Project Coneponents.................                         16
C.  Project   lmplement t ton.. .................                   16
D. Civil Works  . . . . . . . . . .  * 9  # * *   . . * . & . .   17
E.  Supplies and Equipment Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
F. Educational Maaagement..t......... ...  ...    18
0.  Teacher Training . . . . . * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
H.  Curriculum Development and Zducational Materials . . . . . .   20
I. Examinations and Student Assessment    .  a .           ............  21
J.  Research and Evaluation  . . .  .  .   0 .....................  22
K. Professional Services  ............a.....................        23
L.  Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   23
M. Fellowships  4*. .. .. . .   . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .    .   24
N. Project Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*. . . .       24
0. Evaluationof ank Performance. .......... ... .    24
P. AdditionalActivties  . ............. .....   .    24
This document has a mtie dibution and may be usd by rcipents on in tho peforme
of their offical duta Its contents my n othewis be diclosed without Wodd Dak auhormizon.



PART II    STATISTICAL INORMATION
Table Is  Relevant IDA Credits .d    .............. .... . .               26
Table 2s  Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable . . .   27
Table 3s  Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements  . . . . . . .   28
Table 4s  Implementation Indicators  . . . . . .a.   . .   . .. .,. . ...    29
Table Ss  Project Financing  ............ ........ .   44
Table 6s  Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   *. .   . . ..  45
Table 7:  Project Benefits . . . . . . . . .  .   . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
Table 8s  Compliance with Major Covenants  . . . . . . . a . . .  . .   51
Table 9t  Mission Data by Stage of Project. . ....... .... .    54
Table lOs Staff Inputs  .......................   55
MAP   -   IBRD 17639R



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
-(CREDIT 1463-NEP)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Primary
Education Project (PEP) in Nepal. for which Credit 1463-NEP in the amount of
SDR 12.1 million (equivalent to US$12.78 million) was approved on April 24,
1984. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, three years behind the original
schedule. Disbursements continued through October 31, 1992 to cover
commitments made prior to the Closing Date. The total disbursed under this
Credit amounts to SDR 6.7 million (US$8.6 million) and the last disbursement
was on November 18, 1992. The undisbursed balance of SDR 2.4 million will be
cancelled by March 31, 1993.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department 1 of the South Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Sumary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part 1I).
Preparation oW this PCR was started during the last two IDA
supervision missions in October 1991 and May 1992, and is based Intuir alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence, internal IDA memoranda,
project evaluation studies and discussions with project authorities, donors
and advisers.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1463-NEP)
EVALUATION StM-4ARY
(i)       Project Objectivess  The objectives of the project were to:
(a) achieve a low-cost qualitative improvement in primary education;
(b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of the sector;
and
(C) (from 1987 on) develop non-formal strategies for out-of-school
children and functional literacy program for adult participants in
general, and women and children in particular,
(ii)      Design and Implementation:  The project Was IDA's first
intervention in the primary education sector in Nepal. Central to the
project's objectives and design was the concept of primary school clustering
around a Resource Center which constituted the main venue for the interaction
and delivery of various project components. The project adapted easily to
education policy changes and successfully executed all major civil works and
implemented all envisaged teacher training programs, educational materials,
non-formal programs and studies. The project suffered, however, from EMG
staff redeployment policies and rapid local staff turnover. The project also
suffered from scarcity of local counterpart funds and the Government's
unwillingness to allow project funds to be used for the Technical Assistance
component (Part I, paras. 21-35).
(iii)     Results:  As thoroughly documented in consecutive evaluation
studies the project achieved significant success in most areas. By virtue of
the interaction of various project compenents, the project improveds (a) the
teaching-learning environment; (b) the teachers' professional knowledge and
teaching methods; tc) student achievements and participation; (d) local
educational management; (e) educational and instructional materials; (f)
literacy and (g) the physical environment in central offices and schools.
Despite the formation of a core group of experienced technical staff at MOEC,
tho project did not fully achieve its obj3ctive of strengthening the
administrative and technical capacity of the sector. The project did exert a
positive influence on sectoral investment decisions contributing to increased
government priority and funding for primary education. Part II of this
Project Completion Report attests to the Government's view of the success of
the Primary Education Project (Part I, paras. 36-38).
(iv)      Sustainability:  While sustainabil!ty of an education project
cannot be isessed within a short time frame, the experience of this pilot



- iv -
project has now been sufficiently Ointernalized' by 5KG and iuterestad donors
and a new larger and national project, recently approved by IDA, will improve
the likelihood of consolidating the favorable impact on sector policy,
subsector quality and students' participation and achievements (Part I,
psra. 39).
(v)       Findings and Lessons Learneds
(a) The project did not impose unrealistic tartets on the sector. The
fact that output in certain project components was much greater
than planned and that innovative ideas were adopted without major
problems, speaks to the clarity of the analysis asd the feasibility
of the project's conceptual design (Part I, para. 22).
(b)  Macro economic performance and general administrative and staffing
policies have an impact on proiect performance. Scarcity of local
counterpart funds due mostly to budgetaty constraints, refusal to
allow project funds to be used for staff tsaining and rapid
turnover among critical project staff are strong examples of
negative impact of government policies in investment projects in
general and In PEP in particular (Part I, paras. 33-34).
(c) Well pre2ared, timelv and well supervised pilot projects can
succeed in focusing public attention on the sector, make positive
impacts and test the ground for national full-scale expansion. The
project was tlmely and well prepared. Supervision was regular and
provided substantial assistance. The project achieved many results
and prepared the ground for replication on a national scale (Part
I, paras. 26-27, 38, 40, 47-48).
(d)  Strengthening the administrative and technical capacity of the
sector is difficult to achieve without Integration of project and
line Ministry functions. Although a corps of experienced technical
staff is now part of MOEC and district MOEC personnel benefited
from project initiatives, greater integration between project units
and MOEC would have been desirable. The strengthening of MOEC's
management, planning and monitoring activities remains a goal of
BPEP (Part I, para. 37 and Part II, paras 6-9).



PRCJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NSPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1463-NEP)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA's PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
- Project Names  Primary Education ProjecL
- Credit No.s    1463-NEP
- RVP UAits      South Asia Regloual Office, Country Departmeut 1
- Countrys       Nepal
- Sectors        Education
- Subsectort     Primary Education
D. Projest Background
1.        After centuries of isolation, Nepal began to develop its economy in
the 19508 amid such major constraints as a narrow resource base, virtually no
physical infrastructure, a difficult topography and ver, United educational
and health services for its population. At the end of the Rana Regime (1951),
whaich opp9sed schooling for the general populatior, only about 1J,000 children
(or less than 1t of the school age population) were in school. By the early
1980., half of the school age population or about 1 million children, were
enrolled in primary school. This significant growth in enrollments was
achieved largely under the New Education System Plan (NESP), which His
Majesty's Government (HMG) adopted in 1971, and which called for greater
responsibility for Government financing of education by providing free
textbooks and paying for teachers' salaries.
2.        However, the growth in enrollments achieved under the NESP was not
matched by qualitative progress in the schools. Education standards may even
have declined. The three-year primary cycle was found to be inadequate to
achieve literacy and numeracy and was subsequently extended to five years.
Dropout and repetition rates were excessively high, with the result that only
about 30 of entrants completed the primary cycle. It was estimated that no
more than 20-301 of the children attending primary school learned anything of
lasting value. Teachers were poorly motivated and lacked training; the
primary curriculum and educational materials were outdated and the school
facilities lacked basic requirements of adequate lighting, furniture, water
and latrines.
3.        The quality of school managcment and supervision were equally poor
and of low impact. Cupervisors were expected to cover too many schools, the
District Education Officers (DEOs) had no experience or professional
qualification in education, headmasters had no training and the School
Management Committees (SMCs) were solely involved in securing community
resources for building schools and getting children enrolled.



- 2 -
4.        In addition, only about 60Z of entrants completed the two-stage
(grades 6-7 and 8-10) secondary school cycle and even these students were
generally deficient in Mathematics, Science and Englioh. The School Leaving
Certificate (SLC) awrded by examination at the end of 10th Srade, with
average passing rates of about 30?, was in ueed of reform.
S.        Significant disparities in access to educational opportunities
based on sex, caste and region exist in Nepal. In 1979180 females accounted
for only about 271 of total primary enrollments.
6.        The planning and budgeting systems were very inadequate for
predicting and allocating resources to meet education needs and Ministry of
Education and Culture (MOEC) objectives. MOE- lacked a coordinated system of
data collection and analysis for planning.
7.        Finally, the rapid growth in enrollments during the Fifth
Development P13n (t975-1980) had not been matched by increase. in education
expenditure. 'While enrollments grew at about 182 per aunum, increases in
expenditure in education averaged about 112 per mnnum in real terms. By
1981/82 the proportion of the national budget allocated to aducation vas 9.72.
Withiu the education budget, the allocation or resources favored higher
education (362) at the expense of primary education (292) which had been
consIstently underfunded. The construction of primary rid secondary school
buildings ant a significant proportion of secondary teachers' salaries were
financed by the students' parents, and the burden of education on the
community was greatest at primary and secondary levels.
8.        The above issues became the focal point for improvements in the
education system during the Government's Sixth Development Plan (1981-86). As
part of the Plan's strategy to meet the minimum basic needs of the population
and to support developments in other sectors, high priority was attached to
primary education, work-oriented adult education, and vocational and skills
training. Specifically, the Government decided to concentrate on: (a)
improving educational quality and reducin wastage; (b) imparting relevant
skills and scientific knowledge; (c) revising curricula and textbooks to make
them more relevant to existing conditions of life as well as national and
social valuest and (d) Increasing educational oppoctunities in backward areas
and to disadvantaged groups, such as females. The Government's strategy to
achieve these objectives was to: (a) contain, within reasonable expansion
targets, enrollments at primary, secondary and tertiary levels., so as to
permit greater mphasis on quality; (b) give priority to new physical
facilities for primary education, non-foral work-oriented education, and
vocational and technical education; (c) encourage community Involvement for
the expansion of general education; and (d! continue tLie policy that all
physical facilities (buildings and furnlture), excluding technical schools,
would be provided by the local community.
9.        The project supported the Government's Sixth Plan strategy for
primary education, addi essing many of the qualit- issues inherent in the
education system. The project was identified by an I   identification
mission, which visited Nepal during Navember 1981 and was prepared on behalf



- 3 -
of the Government by UNESCO In March 1982 under the United Natioes'
cooperative progoam.  An extensive survey of schools in the six project
districts, agreed at the time of identification, was financed under an IDA
technical assistance credit and conducted by the Institute of Education of
NOEC durinS June and July 1982. 'the project va pro-appraised by sn IDA
mission in November 1982 and appraised in July-August 1983. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C. from March 16 to !l, 1984, and the project became
effective on December 4, 1984.
C. Project Objectives ar.d Descr42tion
10.       Objectives.  The objectives of the project were tos
(a) achieve a low-cost qualitative improvement in primary education;
and
(b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of the sector.
A new objective related to the development of non-formal strategies for out-
of-school children and functional literacy programs for adult momen was added
in 1987.
II.       Descri2tion.  In pursuit of quality mvrovement In pv*ma
education the project would focus closely upon the intermediate objective of
Improved teacher effectiveness, which would oe achieved through s (i)
Increased teacher knowledge and motivation and (ii) external support in the
form of better management, instructional materials and physical facilities.
Teachers' knowledge vould be improved through th, provision of an Integrated
in-service teacher training and supportive supervision programs as well as
teachers' guides, teaching guidelines and other supportive reading materials.
Teacher motivation would be aided by improved school management, greater
community interest and support and the development of peer group support
within the profession.
12.       Strengthening the administrative and technical capacity o;: the
sector would aim principally at providing administrative and technical support
services fort (i) improving primary and secondary education; (i) implement-
ing the government's policy to decentralize administrative and technical
responsibility to district and community levels; and (iii) strengthening the
Office of the Controller of Examinations (OCR) to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of secondary school leaving examinations.
13.       lhe project would adopt low-cost ways of effectively addressing
primary edlucation quality issues and initiating a gradual strengthening of
sector administration, which would then be capable of spreading the benefits
of subsequent interventions throughout the system. Its design incorporated an
evaluation and moaiitoring system, conceived to provide valuable insights into
the potential for further low-cost development of primary education and to
laad to firm proposals for the next stage of development of the sub-sector.



-4 -
14.       Because of the experimental nature of the project and the risks
associated with a weak nationAl economy, poor comunications and inadequate
service delivery mechanisms, t!e project was limted to about 700 schools in
six accessible districts located In three of the five regions of Nepal.1/
D. Project Cogonents
(a)  Primary Education Inputs
15.       Central to the project's first objective and to its design, was the
concept of primary school clustering into groups of 8-12 schools with a
Resource Center (RC) school centrally located to provide in-service and on-
going training and supportive supervision. The Resource Center would
constitute the main venue for teacher training and for the supply of education
materials to the cluster schools. School buildings and other school
facilities would be improved employing mostly local labor and materials.
16.       Training.  An integrated training program to involve primary
teachers, supervisory staff, headmasters, District Education Officers (DEOs),
school managers, the commity and parents was to be introduced Po as tot  (i)
instill greater teaching and management skills in the primary subsector; and
(ii) bring about major changes of attitude among the whole range of persons
who can influence the success of primary education. The constant presence of
trained and active RPs and PCs operating from every Resource Center and
District Education Office respectively was to ensure that all teachers in the
project schools would receive in-service training and related in-class
superv:.sion on a continuing basis. The project would appoint additional staff
at the Curriculum, Textbook, Supervision Development Center (CTSDC) who would
be respousVitR for conducting direct-contact training at both central level
and in the six project districts. To assist the CTSDC in taking on these
responsibilities, educational advisory services including technical assistance
would be provided by UNICEF throughout the project. Also, additional staff
would be appointed to two new primary education units: li) the Primary
Supervision and Training Unit (PSTU) in the Supervision and Training Section
of CTSDC and (ii) the Primary Materials Unit (PMU) in the Curriculum and
Textbook Section.
17.       Educational Materials.  The project would contribute to alleviating
the shortage of teaching materials bys (i) supporting the design and field
trial. of prototypes of simplified materials by the Curriculum Section of
CTEDC; (ii) Including in the activities of the Resource Centers, special
workshops for teachers on making and using materials; Ciii) providing for each
project school an equipment kit for use in preparation of materials; and
(iv) providing about 70 library sets, consisting of about 10 school libraries,
which can be rotated among the schools in each cluster.
lt The six districts were Dhankuta and Thapa in the Eastern Region, Kaski and
Tanahu In the Western Region and Surkhet and Dang in the mid-Western
Region.



- 5-
(b)  Institutional Develo  aent ad Management Assistance
i8.       To achieve the second project objee-ive, namely the effective
management of educational systems of HMG, would require additional skilled
staff and technical assistance. Assistance to the Ministry of Education and
Culture would aim at:  (a) strengthening its research capacity; (b) assisting
the Secretary in organizing and administering all special education projects;
Ic) strengthening the planning, budgeting and human resource management
system; and (d) strengthening the CTSDC to provide support for the primary
education system. In addition, IDA would finance new buildings for four out
of the six project districts offices (which were in rented accommodation) and
for two of the five regional offices (Pokhara and Dharkuta) to ensure stable
and adequate regional support services for primary education. Finally, more
specific support would be provided for the OCE in order to address issues of
efficiency and quality in the examination system, especially at secondary
level.
(c) Education Project Studies
19.       Under the project, financing for project studies would be provided,
to permit the preparation of possible future education projects and for the
evaluation of the project. Under the first category, provision would be made
for a survey of primary schools in an.ther 20 districts during the first three
years of project implementation. The results of this survey would be needed
In the preparation of a possible second primary education project.
Concurrently, under the second category, evaluation field studies of the
proposed project would be conducted from the outset of project implementation.
(d) Technical Assistance
20.       UNICEF would finance the cost of all the educational services for
the primary component of the project and would provide any other necessary
educational and logistic services through its Kathmandu office, with the help
of the UNESCO regional adviser in Bangkok. By maintaining a continuing
relationship with MOEC and the CTSDC, UNICEF would assist and strengthen the
CTSDC so as to achieve a major reform in the quality of primary education
throughout the project districts. UNICEF would also assist the PIU in
establishing an effective system of project management. The government signed
a Project Agreement with UNICEF for educational services amounting to about
US$1.7 million.
E.  Project Design and Orgaiation
21.       The proJect was IDA's first intervention in the primary education
sector in Nepal. The conceptual foundation reflected a clear analysis of the
critical issues facing primary educations poor physical facilities, untralned
teachers, severe lack of relevant educational materials and weak
administration and management of the education system. The project did not
Impose unrealistic targets on the sector. The project was both in conformity
with and yet differently focused in relation to the ongoing primary education
UNDP-UNICEF-UNESCO Education for Rural Development Project (-SETIO) which



-6-
started operation in the early 1980s. SETI vas region specific, while PEP
districts represented a national sample.
22.       A very Important aspect of the project design was the concept of
clustering of schools with an accompanying Resource Center and Resource
Person. It took considerable time for these to get established, largely due
to the concentration on tW' construction aspects in the first years of the
project. However the fact that the RCe have bsen accepted as a national
strategy for sechool improvement is proof of the success of the innovation.2/
The scope and scale of the project were appropriate at the time of design in
light of the known weak management structure in education, especially at
district level. That output in certain components was much greater than
planned (see para. 38), can be attributed to the demand factors as soon as
some schools began to receive material support many of the others began to
demand the same. If anything, the project design was conservative as the
final output of the project Was doubled in one component (school
rehabilitation) and a totally new component (non-formal education) was added
in 1987 after the mid-term review.
23.       An administrative structure to implement project activities was
formed at the MOEC which consisted of: (a) a Project Implementation Board;
(b) a Project Implementation Unit; and (c) four educational development units
established at the SanothimL Educational Complex. The Project Implementation
Board was formed under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MDEC and it consists
of senior officials and representatives of the NOEC, the National Planning
Covmission and the Ministry of Finance.  It revieved programs and provided
general guidelines to the Project Director on a regular basis. The Project
Implementation Unit had two technical units: Evaluation Unit and School
Construction Unit and administrative sections (personnel administration,
financial administration, procurement and program and budgeting). The PIU was
responsible for overall planning, programming, budgeting, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the project activities. The Evaluation Unit
monitored and evaluated thi project activities, conducting the formative
evaluation of project activities and maintaining basic data. In order to
determine the long-term impact of the Project on the target groups, the
Evaluation Unit has maintained the baseline data on students and teachers.
The School Construction Unit developed the plans and programs of the
construction work, su%i as construction of the administrative buildings,
Resource Centers and renovation of the project schools. The SCU Implements
and supervises its programs at district level. Overseers have been appointed
to District Education Offices to Implement and monitor the programs at the
field level.
24.       Four education development units were established at the Sanothimi
Educational Complex to implement the project activities. The Primary
Supervision and Training Unit (PSTU) is responsible for the training component
21 The Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP) recently approved by IDA,
will finance the expansion of the primary school cluster and Resource
Center system throughout Nepal.



of the Project. The Unit conducts different types of training and is
responsible for developing supervision strategies. The Primary Materials Unit
(PMU) is resptisible for development of the educational materials. Since 1990
the Unit has been centrally involved in the reform of the Primary Curriculum.
The Non-Formal Education Unit is responsible for formulating the plans and
programs of the non-formal components and lmplementing them at the project
schools. The types of non-formal programs conducted at the Project districts
ares out-of-school children program, environmental program (agriculture and
health education), women education program and community reading centers.
These programs were in addition to those antLcipated during appraisal and
described in the SAR.
25.       The Training and Research Unit was set up in the Office of the
Comptroller of Examinations. This Unit aims at improving the existinor system
of the SLC examination, such as improvement in the development of the question
papers, marking schemes, analysis of the results and rules and regulations of
the examinatiou. Regional Educational Directorate Offices also played a role
in the implementation of the Project, appointing Field Coordinators, providing
services of subject specialists, etc. The District Education Officer (now
Inspector) was the administrative head of the project at district level.
26.       The project document was well prepared.  However, hindsight
indicates that the significance of the document was not fully evident to all
MOEC and project personnel.  This is possibly because of the novelty of the
project for MOEC, but it could also indicate the need to hold more project
introduction seminars to ensure full consensus among all concerned parties.
The project had some difficulty in ensuring that its activities were vholly
consonant with those of the Ministry of Education and Culture. This was due
largely to the perceptions of regular MOEC staff who saw project staff as
being specially favored, but also to the inevitable conflict between a project
thrust to bring about change and a system which wanted to preserve the status
quo. More collaboration during project design would also contribute to
enhancing project ownership.
27.       Project timing was appropriate in that it was an experimental
project conceived to test design innovations and to experiment with delivery
systems for teacher training, non-formal education and school buildings. The
project successes have enabled the new Government to adapt the experiment and
to expand it nationwide during the Eighth Five-Year Plan. The problem was the
slowness of project start-up, owing to the poor managerial system operating
within MOEC. The separate nature of the Project Implementation Unit
contributed to the failure of PEP becoming an integral part of MOEC. The
Project Implementation Unit was meant to ensure collaborative and constructive
cooperation with a number of institutions. This did not occur to any great
extent especially during the first years of the project. However, had the
project been cperated entirely through the regular structures of MOEC it is
doubtful if any of the innovations and successes (especially the introduction
of the New Primary Curriculum) would have been fully implemented and achieved.



F. Project Implementation
28.       Credit Effectivenesst  The credit was signed on July 7, 1984 and
became effective on December 4, 1984.
29.       Since its inception, both EMG and IDA have worked together to adopt
the project to the rapid changes in the Nepalese educational system.
Originally designed to cater for the then three-grade primary system, the
project adopted to the changed five-grade system.  When the MOEC launched its
Basic Education Needs Program (1985186), PEP also responded by adjusting its
teacher-training program to the new Government objective of providing
professional training for all primary teachers. Most significantly, the
project successfully executed all major construction works and resource
centers, rehabilitated schools and implemented all teacher-training,
educational materials, non-formal programs and studies. Central level
technical staff were hired to train trainers and design educational materials.
In the field, Resource Persons (RPs) were employed to provide in-service
training to all cluster school teachers and, to provide a link between the RCs
and District Education Officers, primary school supervisors were designated as
Field Coordinators with the task of supervising up to six clusters. School
construction was supervised by overseers and/or tradesmen employed in the DEOs
offices (see Part l1s Statistical Information; Table 4: Implementation
Indicators; 4.1: Training; 4.2s Curriculum Development; 4.3s Non-Formal
Education; 4.4s Evaluation and Studies; 4.5: Office of Controller of
Examinations (OCE)).
30.       Based on a Memorandum of Understanding between UNICEF and IDA,
WUICEF provided technical assistance inputs to the PEP in the amount of US$1.7
million. Project strategies and additional staff appointed under the terms of
the agreement contributed to strengthen: (a) the in-service training of
teachers with a practical, well planned and well delivered course which used
the resource persons as facilitators; (b) the development and production of
supplementary materials and teacher's guides; and (c) the development of
learning materials which ultimately led to the on-going process of primary
curriculum reform. In addition, UNICEF supported the implementation of the
non-formal program for out-of-school children and adults, with a special focus
on women, and provided budgetary support to hire engineers and overseers for
the primary school construction and rehabilitation program.
31.       Implementation Schedule and Problems.  The main variance between
project design and implementation is that the implementation period was
extended by three years, mainly to complete project activities. The main
rationale for the final year's extension was to facilitate the preparation for
a follow-on project and to avoid a hiatus between the two projects rather than
to complete original project objectives. Also, an additional component --
Non-Formal Education -- was added to the project in 1987/88.
32.       The Staff Appraisal Report anticipated that the project would
provide for the rehabilitation of about 700 schools. By the end of the
project, the project had rehabilitated more than 1,300 schools and was
operating in about 1,900 schools (see Part IIs Statistical Information,



-9-
Table 4). The project document restricted the materials development component
to supplementary readers and visual aids only. However, by the end of the
project period a completely new national primary curriculum had been tested
through the project system and is due for national replication in January
1993.
33.       Project risks were identified correctly.  The greatest risk related
to the absence of qualified project managers and progrsTmers. The Government
was reluctant to use the funds assigned for technical assistance to address
this issue. As assurances were given during project preparation, this
development was difficult to foresee. Unanticipated factors that might have
been taken into account during project preparation, relate to the staffing
policies then operating within BMG/Nepal. The fact that frequent transfers
were made without any reference to skills or competencies might have received
greater attention and focus in the project document. Though the core project
management staff in charge of the technical units was stable (less than 5Z of
project staff left during the total period of Implementation) there was a
rapid turnover among critical construction overseers and DE0s (in the six-
project districts there were 50 changes in DEOs during the project period).
34.       Disbursements.  One of the Implementation problems suffered by the
project was related to the scarcity of local counterpart funds produced mainly
by successive budget cuts. The 1989/90 Trade and Transit dispute with India
and the lnternal political situation, further exacerbated the problems. Two
consecutive budget cuts, one in 1989190 and the next in 1990/91 resulted in a
smaller number of activities and programs accomplished during those years.
Also, the lack of efficient and prompt actions by project management, such as
delays In the clearance of irregularities before budgetary releases,
contributed to even more constrained budget situations. Another problem was
the Government's refusal to allow project funds to be fully used for some of
the purposes set forth in the Credit Agreement, such as the Technical
Assistance component which was designed to strengthen the admd5aistrative and
technical capacity of the sector. The majority of the project staff working
in the construction, teaching materials, training of teachers, non-formal
education and evaluation and budgeting units were highly motivated and worked
hard towards the goals of the project. However, hardly any technical staff
received training with the exception of staff of the Office of Comptroller of
Examinations.
35.       Of the total credit of SDR 12.10 million (US$ 12.78 equivalent) 5SZ
has been disbursed, or SDR 6.7 million and 67.42 in US dollar terms, or
US$8.61 million. As discussed above, a large portion of the underutilization
resulted from the depreciation of the Nepalese Rupee vis a vis the US dollar,
the failure of HMG authorities to allocate to the project authorities the full
amount of project financing and the refusal to allow project funds to be used
for some of the purposes agreed upon by the Borrower and IDA.
G. Maior Results of the Project
36.       The project achieved a very significant success in most component
areas. The Resource Center-Resource Person arrangement has been shown to be a



- 10 -
success and worth the cost. Teachers know more about their subject and about
teaching methodology. Rehabilitated schools are a spur to better learning by
pupils and better performance by teachers. Innovative and popular non-formal
educational programs have been successfully added to the original project
design. Comunity financial resources have been marshalled in a -'.y that
generates two rupees or more for each rupee put up by the Government. The
interaction of various project components considerably improved the teaching-
learning conditions and the overall achievement levels.
37.       The SAR contains a general statement that possible benefits of this
first project must be viewed over the long ternm when a second or even third
project would be nearing its completion. However, some project achievements
are already manifest. They can be summarized as follows:
(a) Creation of a Better Learning Environment. The interaction of
various project components has improved the learning environment.
The mobilization of resources from the local communities, through
their involvement in school construction and school management
cozuittees; the presence of a Resource Person who by virtue of
training, commltment and identification with the locality (to which
he or she usually belongs), acts as a catalyst within the cluster
of schools; the trained teachers, the improved materials; and the
non-formal education offerings have all contributed to an improved
learning environment.
(b) Improvement in Teachers' Professional Knowledge and Performance.
Teachers' professional knowledge and skills were tested in 1988189.
The study was conducted on a sample of 172 of the total number of
teachers in four PEP and non-PEP school districts and it was almed
at testing the teachers' professional knowledge. The findings
Indicated that the knowledge and skills of the PEP teachers had
increased by 79Z compared to their knowledge and skills level
before the training and intensive supervision system started by the
RC system. When compared to the non-PEP teachers, the average
percentage scores of the PEP teachers was 127Z greater.3/ Class
observation and formal discussions were used to assesa teachers'
behavior In the classroom in activities such as lesson preparation,
teaching methods, use of educational materials, students'
participation, class management and so on. The scores on PEP
teachers' behavior were consistently much higher than the scores of
the non-PEP teachers (see Part III Statistical Information,
Tables 7.1, 7.2 and 7.3). Notwithstanding these favorable outcomes
a national primary teacher training strategy and program are still
lacking in Nepal.
SI 4EC, Primary Education Project Evaluation Units "An Impact Study of
the Training on Teachers' Behavior in Classroom", Xathmandu, January
1991.



- 11 -
(c) Imgrovement in Students' Achievement. Another major study 4/
comparing a total of 50 PEP and non-PEP schools, shows conclusively
that PEP students of all grades perform better in academic
achievement in all tested subjects (Nepali, Social Studies, Health
Education, Mathematics, Science and English) than non-PEP students.
Pro-tests vere administered in February 1990 and post-tests In
November 1990. While the achievement levels in both PEP and son-
PEP districts increased between the pre- and post-test, Table 7.4
In Part Ills Statistical Information shows that the academic
achievement level of PEP students is higher than the non-PEP
students.
(d) Improvements in Students' Promotion, Repetition and Dropout Rates.
A comparative analysis of student data shows that PEP schools have
achieved significant improvements in the rates of promotion,
repetition and dropout as compared to similar non-PEP schools.
Repeater rates are lower in all classes of PEP districts when
compared to the non-PEP districts" classes; dropout rates were
higher in the non-project schools by 8.4 percentage points and the
promotion rates (students passing the final examination) of all
classes in the project schools wero 12.90 higher than those
observed at the non-project schools.
(s) Improved Educational Management. The cluster system has given each
group of 10-15 schools a supportive identity which has permitted
lmprovements in general management. The headmasters visit each
others' schools and specific training activities are designed to
address redress local problems.
(f) Greater Communitq Involvement. The initial activity of the project
in a specific area was related to the school rehabilitation
program, where a "seed money' grant of up to 40X of the estimated
cost of rehabilitating a school was made to the commiunity. In this
way, considerable cammuity funds were generated for primary
education, while at the same time, the community became more aware
of their children educational needs. This also facilitated the
introduction of the non-formal education components of the project.
tg) Improved Instructional Materials. Teachers have been provided both
with basic tesching aids created and supplied by PEP and with the
skills to prepare teaching/learning aids specific to their own
classroom needs (see Part Ills Statistical Information, Table
4.2).
(h)  Improved Literacy. Even though the original project was limited to
primary school based strategies, it was soon realized that
improvements In the primary sector were also dependent upon such
4/ MOEC, Prlmary Education Project Evaluation Unit, 'An Impact Study of
PEP inpute on Student Achievement', Katbmandu, February 1991.



- 12 -
factcrs as comaunity awareness and involvement in the educational
scene and the educational status of the population in general.
When it became clear that there was a strong correlation between
non-achool attenders and the illiteracy of their parents, efforts
to reach parents and adolescents were intensified. Programs such
as the Out-of-School Program within PEP hare contributed to
increase literacy in Nepal. By the end of the project,
beneficiaries from non-formal education included about 24 thousand
women, 37 thousand out-of-school children and 22 thousand
participants in the Adult Education Programs (see Part IIls
Statistical Information, Table 4.3).
(i) Strengthened Technical Staff. The Project did not fully achieve
its objective of strengthening the administrative and technical
capacity of the sector. However, the Project has provided MOEC
(and now the Basic and Primary Education Project) with a corps of
experienced and trained staff (see Part III: Statistical
Information, Table 4). Much of the training has been gained
through on-the-job and program activities. The Project lost the
opportunity of consolidating this base by not utilizing the
considerable funds at its disposal for professional staff training.
The fact that the project is being expanded and continued through
the Basic and Primary Education Project for a further eight years
will provide the opportunity for correcting this situation and for
moving trained planners, progranmers and educational researchers
into more central positions within the MOEC itself.
(j) Improved Physical Environment. The Project has provided additional
office space to MOEC at central, regional and district levels. Six
districts have been provided with Resource Centers and about one
thousand three hundred schools have been rehabilitated (see Part
Ills Statistical Information, Table 4).
38.       Lastly, the project exerted a positive influence on sectoral
investent decisions by drawing attention to the problems of education at
primary and basic level. The share of primary education in the total
education budget increased from about 29Z in 1981/82 to more than 502 in the
current fiscal year. The project was the main focal point for in-country
preparations for the Education for all (EPA) Jomtien World Conference which
led to increased priority being given to primary education. Within the sector
the project had a profound impact on curriculum development, supervision
strategies and out-of-school education. Community contribution to education
was greatly increased through the cost-sharing school rehabilitation program.
The activities leading to the preparation of a second iroject, led the MOEC to
set up a high-level team of experts to develop a Master Plan for Basic and
Primary Education. The project lived through three political erass the
Panchayat One-Party System, the Interim Government of 1990-1991, and the new
democratic multi-party system from mid-1991. Throughout these difficult
times, overalU the project was able to carry out its programs and keep the
issues of primary education in focus.



_ 13 -
B. Project Sustainabilitv
39.       Based solely on previous experience, the likelihood of
sustainability of project components could only be rated as low. Nepal's
educational development is characterized by examples of pilot projects which
have never impacted on sector policy, nor managed to operate on a scale of any
significance. Many of PEP's programs were innovative and took considerable
time to be sufficiently 'internalizedO. While sustainability In education
cannot be assessed within a short time-frame, the follow-on project gives
reason for an optimistic forecast of sustainability. The major reason for
this is that the second phase, or Basic and Primary Education Project, is nuw
a national program, one to which both government and the donor community are
strongly committed. The principal challenge as regards sustainability is
therefore not whether, but at what level of quality and efficiency the
project's activities will be sustained. The Goverrnent and donor community
have agreed on a Financial Plan which will provide adequate resources for a
profound change in the sector. The question remains as to the degree to which
technical ability, commitment and public support can be harnessed to utilize
these resources.
I. IDA Performance
40.       IDA supervision missions were fielded regularly (16 missions in the
course of seven years) and provided substantive assistance to in the areas of
policy development, institutional upgrading and human resource development.
'hile the missions consisted of staff with the required skills, high staff
turnover resulted in a weakening of systematic follow-up. The absence of a
major In-depth aid-term review was a drawback. An evaluation study conducted
by the Center for Educational Research at Tribuvan University was found to be
of unsatisfactory quality. Cooperation with the parallel donor, UNICEP, was
satisfactory up to the end of the official project period 1989190. However,
it is not known whether full utilization of the UNICEF grant component (US$1.7
million) has been achieved and perhaps better IDA/UNICEF monitoring of this
could have helped.
41.       While IDA mission reports consistently drew attention to poor
management performance by the Project staff, it proved impossible to effect
any significant changes in project personnel. In the latter years of the
project the attention of most mission members was focused on preparation
activities for the follow-on project. The BPEP preparation missions
interacted mostly with PEP project staff and with the Secretary and Additional
Secretary of the NOEC, rather than with Ministry staff at large.
J. Borrower Performance
42.       The project disbursed approximately 67.4? the IDA Credit.  The main
reasons for the shortfall were the depreciation of the US dollar vis-a-vis the
SDR and of the Nepali rupee vis-a-via the US dollar, and BMG's refusal to
spend IDA funds in certain categories, especially technical assistance and
training. ihile most of the components were implemented either above or to a
satisfactory degree, there were some shortcomings In the quality of



_ 14 -
supe71ision at the local level.  This Was possibly caused by the unclear
relationship between the project and MOEC at district le-iel. Further, the
project did not succeed In bringing about any substantial improvement In the
general planning and programming skills of the I4OEC as a whole. Project
management did, however, Improve particularly In the late stages, prompted
possibly by the attention given to BPEP preparation. An important lesion for
the future relates to the need to place more emphasis on practical, project-
component-specific management training.
43.       IDA staff and Project officials cooperated very positively and in a
very friendly atmosphere. However, the professional relationship was not
adequate. Briefings by Project officials were lacking in analytic content and
the ability of other parts of the MOEC to inform missions of educational
developments, and of PEP's impact on such, was poor. Too often missions had
to rely on expatriate technical advisors for professional briefings and
e!iscussions.
K. Consulting Services
44.       Construction contractors vere generally satisfactory for central
level operations. However, there were considerable difficulties with contract
work at district level. This led in part to a discontinuing of the contractor
method for Resource Center construction In the last year of the project.
45.       The major external consultancy to PEP was provided to the Office of
Controller of Ezamliations to improve the SLC and to assist in the
computerization of examination data. The poor relationship between the
Project Office and the OCE, the weaknesses at OCZ itself, and the
inappropriateness of the level of technology (main-frame computer) weakened
this component. The consultants themselves were of high quality but the
design and mnagment of the component was at fault.  As a result, efficiency
and quality of the secondary examination system has not improved as expected.
L. Project Documentation and Data
46.       The Staff Appraisal Report was developed in the early 1980s.  The
Project did not get going effectively until 1985 and ended In 1992. Therefore
the situation and the proposed activities described In the SAR were at some
variance with the situation obtaining by the end of the 1980e. There was
need, therefore, for either updating of parts the SAR or transforming the SAR
Into something akin to an Operations Manual, which could be used as the basic
reference and vorking document for successive missions. While the data in the
SAl and other preparatory documents was adequate, it did not form the basis
for the monitoring and evaluation work of the Projects Evaluation Unit.
Project Initiating Workshops could help In the general task of ensuring that
the SAR and related documents get translated into project working documents.
47.       Preparation for a follow-on project. As early as April 1989 the
Bank aa4 BMGIMepal reached agreement in principle on the need for a second
project. By July 1989 the MOEC was able to present a project proposal which
led IDA to field project identification and preparation missions. The



-~~~~~~~~~~~~                       1-
motivating goal vas the then Goverament'e declared Basic Needs Policy, which
proclaimed, inter alia, the goal of basic education for all by the year 2000.
General donor concern and Interest in the sector led UNDP to assist MOE:0 to
set up the BPEP Master Plan Team which comme'ced vork In 1990. The political
unrest In Nepal In 1990191 slowed down the process of project development but
the momentum was sustained by the mew democratic political order and by the
new gwernment's desire for change.
48.       The BPEP Master Plan provided an excellent framework for donors and
government to negotiate a program rather than adopt a discrete project
approach to educational development in the 19908. A comprehens!.ve financial
plan was developed and, to a considerable extent, this has to a considerable
extent, guided donor investment plans. Complete donor coordination was not
possible owing in part to the varying project preparation processes of the
different agencies. However, there is almost complete ccusensus among the
donors and w,vernment on the priority assigned to primary educetion and on the
strategies to be adopted, and this promises well for the future.
49.       In addition, IDA was able to assist in human resource development
for the follow-on project by successfully negotiatlng a Grant Fnd (US$1.6
million) from the Japanese Government to enable MOBC hire the necessary
cousultants and train the necessary staff so as to be able to plan and
imlement the follow-on project more effectively.  There were itial delays
In the use of the fund but it is expected that by the date of ter4tnation
(March 1993) a sufficient number of national staff will have beeo trained in
the skills required to ensure PEP sustainability and successful BPRP
iMplementation.



- 16 -
PART IIs PROJECT REIEGV FROM BORROVD.'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Background
The project objectives were tot
(a) achieve a 1lw-cost qualitative improvement in primary education;
(b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of the sector.
A third objective was added half-way through the project period;
(c) develop non-formal strategies for out-of-school children and
functional literacy programs for adult women.
B. The Project Components
These are described in Part I of the completion report.
C. Project Implementation
General. The first IDA intervention in the primry sector in Nepal, co-
financed by IDA and HKG/Nepal, wi'h parallel financing from UNICEF
became effective in July 1984. The planned date of completion was June
30, 1989 and the closing date was June 30, 1992. The reasons for the
extension weres
(a) the slow start-up to the project;
(b) the increase in project targets;
(c) the consequences of the trade dispute with India in 1989190 which
badly affected the construction component;
(d) the need for a transitional period to ensure continuity with a
follow-on project.
The total projects costs were designed as follows:
HMGUS$ 2.19
IDA CreditUS$12.78
UNICEFUS$ 1.70
TotalUS$16.67
The estimated expended amounts are as follows:
HMGUS$2.75
IDA CreditUS$8.39
UNICEFN/A
TotalUS$11.14
The project succeeded in improving the quality of primary education, in
strengthening the infrastructure through construction of educational
facilities and rehabilitating primary schools, and in developing and
implementing effective non-formal educational programs. The project was
not very successful in strengthening the administrative and technical



- 17 -
capacity of the sector. However, as most of the project's components
have been adoptvd into a larger and nationally-focused follow-on
project, BPEP, the project can be said to have been a success.
D.  Civil Works
1.        Achievemsets.  The project completed all planned civil works:
(a) an educational complex at Sanothimi, including a Curriculum &
Textbook Development Center. an Examinations Center, an Educational
Library and Hostel facilities for training programs;
(b) a Project Office which is part of the MOEC complex;
(c) two Regional Education Offices and Training Centers;
(d) four District Education Offices;
(e) one hundred and 33 Resource Centers; and
(f) rehabilitation of approximately 1,400 schools (SAR targets 750).
2.        Problems.  The Project's School Construction Unit was understaffed
and did not receive the technical assistance needed. The primary school
construction component was badly designed. In tha first years of the project
there was no quality control of school construction standards. (A number of
these schools collapsed in a earthquake in lu  9).  The Bank's insistence on
the contractor system for Resource Center construction caused considerable
delay especially when the project began to operate in the more remote rural
areas. (This was rectified in the last year of the project when RCs were
constructed on a community-contract basis). Insufficient attention was given
to developmental aspects of the works preparation of appropriate designs,
studies of building materials use and availability; community involvement
strategies, staff development. In comparison with other components the SCU
hre the highest turaover of staff, especially among district overseers. The
taade dispute with India in 1989/90 led to shortages of building materials and
a consequent slowdown in all building activities in the country. The MOF
decision to put a moratorium on construction components of projects in 1990/91
led to a severe halt in program development.
3.        Lessons and Rec o      tudations. The project succeeded in generating
considerable private support in education. Communities contributed an
estimated 701 of the cost of school rehabilitation. While this kind of
contribution can be seen as a form of Indirect taxation, it has shown that the
concept of 'seed money" works. A valuable lesson is that the community should
not be seen simply as a cheap labor source but that the project activity
should be the cutting edge of educational interventions In the same
communitiess functional education programs, health, nutrition, environmental
activities, etc. the project has led to the official recognition of the
Government's role in the physical construction of schools. A Physical
Planning Unit has been formally set up within the new project (B#EP/MOEC) to
act as the planning and monitoring center, while a Schools' Construction Unit
has been set up within the Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning. The
future success of school building in Nepal will depend on the success of these
two units, not least in their ability to work closely and cooperatively. The
component'o swetesses were not fully assessed by the IDA in its preparatory



- 18 -
work for the follow-on project. in particular, the project's staff experience
in dealing with local covunities and its ability to respond to the specific
needs of different areas are valuable lessons for community development in
Nepal. The main recommendation is that much more attention must be given to
the professional development of the two plamed Units. It is hoped that the
proposed DANIDA assistance will address this issue.
B. Supnlies and gquipment Procurement
(a) Achievements. The project was quite competent in the procurement
of the supplies and equipment required.
(b) Problems. The absence of a maintenance component for all equipment
is a serious drawback, though it is difficult In mny cases to
acquire such services especially in rural areas.
(c) Lessons and Recommendations. Maintenance and training aspects
should be addressed in the follow-on project.
P. Educational Management
(a) Achievements
4.        The most Innovative management intervention was the Introduction of
the school clustering system, with the accompanying Resource Center, Resource
Person and RC Management Committee system. While the clustering system is not
new to the Asia region, there was very little knowledge of its functions and,
probably more critically, no research or study done on how best the concepts
could be adapted to the Nepalese situation. This possibly accounts for the
considerable confusion in the first years of project operation.
5.        The fact that both the )OEC-BPEP Master Plan Report (1991) and the
National Education Commission Report (1992) endorsed the concept and strategy
and that the RC is a major component of the follow-on BP?P (1992-97) prtject
is confirmation of its impact and initial success. Evaluation studies which
show increased teacher professional knowledge, improved teacher classroom
performance and higher student achievement scores (compared to non-project
districts) can be reasonably imputed to the IC strategy by virtue of its
ability to deliver services and support at school-based level.
6.        The project, through its specific unit structure of management, has
developed a cadre of experienced and profeesional educational planners,
programmers, evaluators, physical school designers, curriculum developers,
textbook writers and designers, at central level, and a new type of school
supervisor, focusing on qualitative inputs, in the form of Resource Persons,
at the district level. Very few of the above were available to the MOEC at
the outset of the project. Central and District level regular MDEC staff
benefited, though to a much lesser degree, through their direct and indirect
involvement In project component implementation.



- 19 -
(b) Problem
7.        The project did not make a strong impact on NOEC's capacity for
educational management. This can be attributed to the existence of a separate
Project Office (for almost five years separate and at a distance from the
MOEC), to the fact that programs at district level were operated through a
discrete project office, and to the absence of mechanisms to ensure greater
iutegration between project .,-its and the relevant MDEC sections, directorates
and departments. The project's work on curricmlum development best
illustrates the dilemmas the project could hire the kind of staff required
for curriculum work and had the funds and freedom (as well as some foreign
technical assistance) to put in motion the process approach to curriculum
development, while the official unit, the primary section of CTSDC, hampered
by lack of funds and development assistance, was not actively incorporated
into the whole exercise. The success of the project"s liitiative led to the
promulgation of the first grade textbooks based on the new primary curriculum.
(c) Lessons and lecomuedations
8.        The situation described above could possibly have been avoided
through better project design and/or through better Ministry/Project
monitoring and management of the situation. On the other hand, such a
situation may be one of the development phases that have to be experienced in
order to change the whole direction of the public service, regarded at the end
of the 1980s as unproductive and inefficient.
9.        The first precondition for an effective Integration of project and
line Ministry functions has been met ln the case of the follow-on (BPEP)
projectt all BPEP components are national programs. Therefore, the very
process of RPEP developaent will keep the issue in focus and demand joint
planning and evaluation. However, conscious and deliberate strategies must be
developed to resolve the lssue in a produ4tive and collaborative manner. By
the end of BPEP Phase 1 there should be no distinctLon between any BPEP
activity and those of the relevant MOEC section. By the end of BPEP (10, 15?
years hence), MOEC and Project sections/uaLts should be totally integrated.
G. Teacher TraininS
3).       Jchievements. When the project started in 1985 there vas no
pxovision for primary !'-service teacher training in the country. Mandatory
training was not required and whatever training was offered, it was mostly
project based and/or training for specific purposes. That primary teachers
could also be recruited without a Secondary level certificate indicates the
then serious condition of primary teacher education.
11.       MOEC took two important polLcy decLsLons during the course of the
project period: all teachers were required to have an SLC and all teachers
had to receive a minimum amount of training (150 hours Basic Needs Training).
PEP va  at this stage well underway wlth its training program but was able to
adapt to the new situation (though a considerable number of non-SLC teachers
had receLved training and were then dismissed). Critical features of PEP's



- 20 -
teacher training strategy were:
-    coutent based on needs assessment and local school conditions;
-    programs developed by central level staff on workshop basis;
-    the modular approach was usedt  all modules of 12 days duration;
-    each day's work was structured on a 4-part basiss  diagnosis,
demonstration, workshop (practice) and plenary session. Each day's
theme was an identified issue related to actual schoollclassroom
conditions; and
-    each module was evaluated.
By the end of the project a basis for a full, integrated and systematic in-
service teacher training system was in place.
12.       Problems.  Evaluations have shown that the trainings have had a
very strong and positive impact on teachers' professional knowledge and
classroom practice. However, the absence of a national teacher training
strategy has left the future of the training programs uncertain. It is to be
hoped that the planned ADB-funded Teacher Training project will utilize the
experiences, materials, delivery system, etc. of the PEP strategy which has
the advantage of being fully tested and modified under an on-going evaluative
process.
13.       The project has developed 15 modules relating to all aspects of
teacher training needs. Only three of the modules are officially recognized
for career development purposes (Basic Needs Training). This relates to the
problem concerning the absence of a national teacher development institute or
commission which could develop policy and carry out the kinds of policy
research needed to provide the cotutry with an integrated teacher training
program.
14.       Lessons Learned and kecammndations.  The value of training based
on the actualities of the current classroom situation was repeatedly confirmed
by evidence of teacher application of skills mastered during training
sessions. The 12-day RC-based training meant minimum disruption of the
school's programs; however, more use should be made of vacation periods and
head teachers should be advised on how to plan for the systematic release of
teachers. The Trainer and Trainee manual system meant that a consistency was
maintained throughout project sites; teachers were able to use their manuals
as valuable reference materials.
H. Curriculum Development and Educational Materials
15.       Achievements.  The major achievement was the project's ability to
change focus during the course of the project, away from a supplementary
materials approach to a curriculum refonm strategy. It was found that the
supplementary materials were unable to shift the focus away from the textbook
(itself unchanged since 1965 and accepted as a very poor learning instrument)
and therefore made no impact on classroom activity. The situation now is that
a new, reformed and relevant curriculum is in place which can guide the
development of textbooks and supplementary materials in a coherent manner.



- 21 -
16.       The project was also able to introduce and make effective the
process approach to curriculum developments objectives - materials - testing
- trialling - monitoring - evaluation - revLslon. The new Grade 1 curriculum
to be launched In January 1993 vas implemented in 30,300, and 600 schools over
a period of three years. The process approach was applied nationally in the
preparation of the New Curriculum Program 1993-97.
17.       The question of student assessment and primary examinations was
taken up by the project. Strategies were developed to improve the Grade 5
examination and to introduce systomatic student assessment. The project
provided very valuable on-the-job experience to curriculum writers and text
designers. The project also provided support materials (chalkboards, rulers,
AV aids, etc.) to all the concerned schools.
18.       Problems.  See Section E above for problems relating to
Institutional development. Of all the qualitative factors involved in primary
education, the quality of the curriculum and its attendant teachingllearning
materials is probably the most critical. Quality depends on committed,
skilled and trained staff. PEP's curriculum development activities have
provided excellent on-the-job training opportunities but does not have the
necessary trained personnel in the critical areas of textbook development and
production.
19.       Lessons and Recaendations. Most of the lessonslinsights gained
from PEP's experiences have been addressed in the design of BPEP. The skilled
manpower issue, however, involved factors outside the control of the project
itselft government staffing policies, sometimes tnappropriate selection of
the candidates for training, lack of incentives to produce quality work, etc.
These issues must be addressed during BPZP's period of operation.
I. Examinations and Student Assessment
20.       Achlevements.  Provision of adequate physical facilities for the
office of the Controller of Examinations; purchase and installation of a mini-
frame computer sufficient to handle all examinations data; training of senior
staff; Improvements in some aspects of examination procedures. The OCE
component on PEP was able to utilize its technical assistance component by
virtue of a special arrangement between IDA and the contractor, Cambridge
University Ezaminations Syndicate.
21.       Problems. Vhile OCE did have access to adequate technical
assistance and training opportunities, ironically this did not have any great
impact on the overall objectives reform of the SLC examination. The reasons
are complex but they includes
- lack of professional staff;
- lack of total comnitment to carry out the degree of reforms necessary;
- poor utilization of trained staff;
- poor management and organizational ability at OCE to set up the
necessary structure to effect changeg
- lack of the kind of leadership necessary to affect change.



- 22 -
22.       Lessons and Recommendations. The OCE component did not fit easily
into a primary education project as OCE deals exclusively with secondary
education. The component vould be more at home in a project relating to
secondary education development. In its latter years, PEP began to pay
attention to student assessment and Grade 5 examination problems. Student
assessment is now an integral part of the curriculum development component of
BPEP. BPEP should also continue the promisgto work done on Grade S
examinations: eventually any real change In secondary examinations can only
be realised when students entering secondary education have been exposed to
good testing techniques and come to understand the value of testing as an
essential feed-back mechanism.
J. Research and Evaluation
23.       Achievemmets.  The PEP evaluation unit carried out an impressive
amount of work, albeit without an overall evaluation and research strategy.
The unit was a very innovative idea and much was learned on an on-the-job
basis. The unit worked in three major areas: (a) base-line data collection,
(b) process studies, and (c) impact evaluations. Concepts such as item banks,
tracer studies, participatory evaluation. etc., were Introduced through the
project. The fact that the unit will have a more sharper focus and better
defined long- and short-term objectives in the follow-on project is due to the
advocacy work done by PEP, based on a realisation of the critical important
role the evaluation unit played especially during the latter period of the
project.
24.       Problems.  Initially much of the evaluation was quantitative with
little attention to the need for evaluation to relate as closely as possible
to the objectives of the project. The Unit did not, for example, help define
qualitative indicators at the outset so that the achievements and problem of
PEP could be more easily verified. A major criticism of PEP's evaluation was
that it was an "in-house* arfairs the project evaluating itself. In the
first place, the MOEC's oan Program and Evaluation Section lacked expertise to
provide the necessary services. Secondly, the issue should not be 'in-house
versus 'outside' services but rather the quality of the product. The Center
for Educational Research (CERID) was contracted to carry out a mid-term
evaluation of the project but the exercise did not succeed in focusing
attention oan the real issues and problem affecting the project. One possible
reason was the management of CERID at that particular time, andlor the absence
of seriousness of approach to the work at hand. More important was the
Project's failure to establish a productive working relationship with the
MOEC9s Statistical and Manpower Unit, which would have strengthened the
overall data collection of MOEC and provided better sources for monitoring
activities.
25.       Lessons and Recoumendations. The MOEC needs a strong, skilled and
independeLt evaluation and research unit. further, the MOEC needs to be able
to commission external evaluation and research oan critical policy issues and
programs. Therefore, the first need is an overall, comprehensive research and
evaluation policy for MOEC. (BPEP could start the process by developing a
policy-research component.) This should be followed by an integrated program



- 23 _
approach mazimizing the contributions of the KOEC's own Statistics and
Manpower Unit, the IPEP Evaluation Unit, CERID and external research bodies.
26.       BPEP will start with programs which, as a result of PEP's
evaluation work, can now be replicated nationally. The thrust of BPEP's
evaluation therefore must be In the area of policy researcht by the end of
5P1P the MOEC must know the cost-effective and cost-benefit Indices of all
BPEP programs and thereby allow the governmnt to utilize its resources to the
maximum benefit of the social sector.
27.       To counter the accusation of gin-house  evaluation, BPEP should
pursue the idea of institutional linkage. Working In collaboration with an
international research institute will not only enhance the status of the work
of the unit but will provide very necessary exposure and training for national
staff.
K. Professional Services
28.       Professional services were used for the examination component
(Cambridge Examinations Syndicate), construction (Chinese Company and Nepal
Architectural and Physical Planing Company). An Indian firm, PCS, was
awarded the contract for the supply of the computer equipment to the National
Computer Center for examinations data process and analysis.
L. Technical Assistance
29.       UNICEF signed an agreement with MDEC/P1P to provide technical
services to the project in the form of advisers and staff development
training. UNICEF provided approximately 90 mm of foreign advisory services
from 1984 to 1990. DANIDA provided a Chief Technical Advisory for the period
January 1990-September 1992. A clear strategy for technical assistance.
focusing on both transfer of skills and national staff development, was absent
from the beginning. In some cases, advisers vere more at the service of the
donor than of the project, leading at times to a conflict of interests.
30.       In the future, tecbnical Assistance should be the result of much
more careful preparation. It is unfair on both parties, project and donor, if
realistic and feasible objectives are not specified. While there is some
justification to the complaint of some advisers that they did not have clear
instructions from the project, on the other hand it is the job of a tecbnical
adviser to identify the issues and suggest/implement programs, and not wait to
receive precise instructions.
31.       There is no doubt that MOEC needs considerable technical assistance
and trained national man'ower. The project's failure to use fund resources at
its disposal for this purpose is one of the most serious failures of the
project. While it is true that in general UNG prefers not to use credit
funding for these categories, it is the job of project personnel to advocate
much more strongly on this issue and to ensure that any such investment
directly benefits the project, the MOEC and the national human resource base.



- 24 -
M. Fellowshipg
32.       Technical project staff were provided with short-term fellowships
(mazimum three months courses) under the terms of the project. A coherent
fellowship strategy was lacking from the beginning. However, government
practices at the time did not promote a developmental approach to fellowships.
This should be rectified in the follow-on project.
N. Project Management
33.       Bank Aide-Memoires continuously referred to poor management
performance. Project personnel responded that as PEP worked within the
regular EKG system, it was affected by the general weaknesses of the national
management and administration structures. That the project is now considered
a modest success reflects on management improvement during project
implemenhation. However, in view of SHM's intentions to radically reform the
public service it is critical that the follow-on project takes a much more
serious view of its management needs and ensure that a skilled management team
is In place at the onset of the project. This issue should be addressed in
the first six months of the project.
0. Evaluation of Bank Performance
34.       The Bank's impact on the project was weakened by the high turnover
of mission staff. In latter years PEP supervision missions took second place
to BPE" and other project preparation and development activities.  The Project
would also have benefited from a more "problem solving' approach to Missions;
this would have taken more time but would have been more productive and
beneficial to project staff.
35.       There is also a mismatch between the IDA's Quarterly reporting
mechanism and the supervision mission strategy. The Quarterly reports are
never used during supervision missions; they seldom, if ever, elicit responses
from the Bank; and, finally, seem to be a fairly futile exercise.
36.       The Bank could also perform a valuable role in staff development
through the promotion of staff development workshops, preparation of Project
Management Manuals, and in assisting the project develop performance
indicators.
P. Additional Activities
37.       School Mapplng.  PEP began the planning process for a follow-on
project as early as 1990. A school mapping project, which arose out the
deliberations on district selection, was initiated and to date 25 districts
have been mapped. This exercise is very valuable for the overall planning
processes of 1OEC.
38.       Physical Survey of Schools.  In view of the Government's intentions
to play a great role in school ccnstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance,
PEP declded that a physical survey was necessary to determine the exact state



- 25 -
of schools and to help assess the amount of assistance required. With some
assistance from DANIDA, a survey system was developed and tested. This will
now be used for all future schools' physical planning.
39.       PIPE  Preparation.  PEP staff, especially In the last six months of
the project, were very actively involved in PREP preparation. It is thanks to
their efforts that the new project, 8PEP, was able to become effective, with
minimum disruption, in July of 1992.
40.       Conclusion. PEP was a success by virtue of its impact on the shape
of national primary and basic education programs. While there is some truth
in saying that in view of the situation obtaining in the 1980a almost any
intervention would succeed, this should not detract from the fact that PEP
succeeded in focusing public attention to the needs of the sector, developed
and tested strategies for improvement, made a positive impact on classroom
teachingllearning behavior, Increased student achievemwnt scores, and led to
the development of a follow-on project which has moved away from a discrete
project approach to development in favor of a program approach, thus operating
on the scale needed if Education for all 2000 is to be remotely achievable.



- 26 -
PART II. STATISTICAL IORITION
Relevsat IDA Credits
hiLl' M  WM I RIUVAWN TO le rF90E
Tlib_~~~~~~~yor ofr                r                   ____xa_m
I4NW                                          19015     Wine lople_sd.  The rede i- deigned to .t   0In Isyrsuin
A*riuitwel   Nmr                                       Va bt     qupd tod releen                       mlddle l
W bestblahing * BS  dree tInli fi       grs
1esiense. Preljwt Iqiimntern
stld e ait 8 yers but resumed In early
1    4                                        1ainl ls,p eomntd.  The ejeet                  he presex   r      en     the
blneoering Wuectin                                     Cles ng             e rcl n      a     ef the tcni n trunin
'.V/7.               r      rleiny the tu        ef   InserI
~~~~e d, rln _t hreuh
et_rethin  te Icnle ef    bean tnd
deleinge n HIS.
;0474W                                        1900     Usingt Inlmtb1n.  loe prejeet s o o                    tde   a o e
Earthquake Sahel                                       CIeon as            rans ebutt               11 Jae e  le l the
;sabitlen                                             02/a.                 rtae   fed  ara  nd Intedue eartque
esistantdesign 1 fetres late r_Wentute
- ewhe  blOcing.  lhoeet safes prlmaing
start, bu  ae.bde  etlt m en  a
ntrets f e  required a eubtetlWol ml.ing
-as . ent cueIe  durign PY't 0     el-9  II
10EP _W                                             Sese .ff..ti,      The preJes amid lr.we th welalty oF prl_ry
ima  PrImry                                   19902    07/91.              Oduestlein lneres   uwitable &soe  to primry
Eucation                                                                   euheel -I etrente  te managemenf t*    ferml
nd n.e-,erml Primary eduetien delivery system.



- 27 -
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES O PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                 Planed Date   Revised Date   Actual Date
-  Identification                                                     12181
-  Preparation                                                        03/82
-  Pre-Appraisal Kissio:.                                             11182
- Appraisal Mission                                                   07/83
-  Issues Paper                                                       08183
- Credit Negotiations                                                 01/84
- Board Approval                                                      04/24/8'
- Credit Signature                                                    07111/84
-  Credit Effectiveness                                               12/04/84
- Closing Date                         06/30/89         06/30/92      06/30/92
-  Project Completion Report           03131193



- 28 _
Disbursemsnte
Table St ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Millions)
IDA Fiecal Year                  Estimated             Actual                g
and Semester                     Cumulative          Cumulative          Disbursed
1985
'lt (07184-12184)                  0.19                 -
2nd (01/85-06/85                   0.78                0.04                -
1986
1st (07185-12185)                 1.81                 0.19               1.5
2ad (01/86-06/86)                 3.33                 0.40               3.1
1987
1st (07/86-12/8                    5.20               2.39               18.7
2nd (01/87-06/87)                  7.15                2.39              18.7
1988
1st (07187-12187)                 9.03                2.81               22.0
2nd (01/88-06/88)                10.60                 4.21              32.9
1989
lst (07/88-12/88)                11.85                 4.21              32.9
2nd (01/89-06/89)                12.78                 5.32              41.6
1990
lst (07189-12/89)                                     5.81               45.5
2nd (01/90-06/90)                                      6.89              53.9
1991
1st (07/90-12/90)                                      6.89              53.9
2nd (01/91-06/91)                                      6.89              53.9
1992
1st (07/91-12/91)                                      6.89              53.9
2nd (01/92-06/92)                                      7.78              61.0
1993
06/92-09/92                                           8.61               67.4



- 29 -
Project Implementation
Table 4: DMPLEINETATION INDICATORS
Appraisal
Indicators                                                  Estimate      Actual
1. Students, Teachers and Schools Covered 11
(a) Formal Education
Students                                            13b,968    370,357
Teachers                                              3,500       8,374
Schools                                                 700      1,861
(b) Non-Formal Education
women                                                            24,183
Out-of-School Children                                          37,522
Adult Education Programs                                         22,106
2. Construction of Malor Buildings
- KOEC Building (PTU)                                          1           1
- Sanothimi Educational Complex
CTSDC Building                                             1           1
OCE Building                                               1           1
Educational Library                                        1           1
Hostel Building                                            1           1
- Regional Educational Directorate Offices
(Pokhara and Dhankuta)                                     2          2
- District Education Offices
(Dang, Surkhet, Dhankuta and Tanahu)                       4          4
3.  Resource Centers Construction                                  76        133
4.  School Rehabilitatiox Program                                700       1,326
5.  Staff and Positions
- Field Coordinators (FC)                                     12          18
- Resource Persons (RP)                                       76          96
- Subject Curriculum Specialists                               3           3
- Assistant Subject Specialists (PFU, P8SU, P1U)              33          33
- Field Coordinators for Non-Formal Education                              6
- Non-Formal Education Specialist                                          1
- Non-Formal Subject Specialist                                           14
- OCE Examiners                                                4           4
6.  Training (see Table 4.1)
7,  Curriculum Development (see Table 4.2)
8.  Non-Formal Education (see Table 4.3)



- 30 -
Table 4 - cont.
Appraisal
Indicators                                                  Estimate      Actual
9. Evaluation Report (see Table 4.4)
10. Office of Controller of Examinations (see Table 4.5)
lt Actual coverage of training, materials and school rehabilitation programs
in the six districts.
Table 4.1:  IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS:  TRAINING
1. The PSTU (Primary Supervision and Training Unit) has been responsible for
imparting various types of training. It provided training to the
RPsIPCs teachers ont
a. Basic Needs Teacher Training (150 hours)
b. Educational Improvement Training
c. Subject-vise Training
d. Educational Management Training
e. Curriculum Dissemination Training
f. Extra Curricular Activities Training
g. Additional Input Training
2. Training Modules
The different training modules under each type of training are as
follows:
A. Basic Needs Teacher Training (150 hours)
i.    Module 1l  Teaching Methods - 12 days
ii.   Module 2: Educational materials - 12 days
iii.  Module 3s  Evaluation and learning strategy - 12 days
B. Educational Improvement Training
i.    Grade teaching - 12 days
ii.   Multi-grade teachlng - 12 days
C. Subject-vise Training - 12 days
i.    English training
ii.   Math training
iii. Science training



- 31 -
Table 4 - cont.
D. Educational Management Trainint
L.   ID (Headmaster) training - 12 days
ii.   Supervision training
E. Curriculum Dissemination Trainina
l.    Grade 1 Curriculum New Material Training   12 days
P. RStra Curricular Activities - 6 days
G. Additional InPut Training
i.    Special Education - 12 days
ii.   Health and Nutrition - 12 days
3. Training Strategy
Each training module operates through the cascade training module. *The
following are the targets and achievements of the projects
Training for Trainers
No. of Trainers
Planned                 Achievement
Training Category                          1984-92    Achieved     Percentage
1. Teaching Methods Training
for FCs/RPs (12-day)                    88          s8             100
2. Educational Materials for
FCsIRPs (12-day)                         88          88            100
2.1 Educational Materials for
FCs/RPs (Revised Package)                36          36            100
3. Learning Strategies and
Evaluation for PCs/iRPs (12-day)         88          88            100
4. Supervision Training for
FCs/RPs (12-day)                        136         136            100
5. Grade Teaching -aining for
FCsIRPs (10-day)                        136         134            100
6. Multigrade Teaching Training
(started since 1989/90)                124          124            100



- 32 -
7. Extra-curricular Actlvities
Training for FCs/RPs (6-day)            145          145             100
8. Content Tralning for Trainers
(12-day)
(a)  English                           67           53             79
(b)  Mathematics                       63           49             77
(c)  Science                           55           41             74
Trainina for Teachers and Managers
No. of Teachers
Plnned        Actual    Achievement
TraininA Category                                 (1984-1991)            in I
1. Basic Needs Teacher Trainjg
- Teaching methods                       5,346         5,046          94
- Educational materials                  5,651         4,933          87
- Evaluation and learning strategy       2,510         2,512         100
2. Instructional Improvement Training
- Grade teaching                         1,307         1,034          79
- Multi-grade teaching                     646           188          29
3*  Content Training
- English                                1,832           711          39
- Mat.ematics                            1,832           676          37
- Science                                1,852           702          38
4.  Educational Management Trainig
- Headmasters Training                     380           345          91
5.  Extra Curricular Activities               1,139        1,144         100
Sourcess  Primary Education Projects A Report on Quantitative Performance of
the Project (February 1992).
PSTU (Primary Supervision and Training Unit) Sanothimi.
DEI (District Zducation Inspectorate Office), Jhapa, Dhankuta,
Tanahu, Kaski, Dang and Surkhet.



- 33 -
Table 4 . cont.
Table 4.2s IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORSt CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials
1. Phase I. 1991
The new grade 1 curriculum materials were produced in the subjectst
i.    Nepali (Mero Palilo Kitab)
ii.   Mathematics (Mero Garit)
iii, Sociocy (Mero Sero Phero)
2.    The number of RCs, schools, teachers and students Involved in the first
phase were as follows:
Phase I, 1990
District     RCs      Schools     Teachers      Students
6         12        24            40          3,500
3. Phase II. 1991, New Grade 1 Curriculam Materials
In phase I1, the new grade 1 curriculum materials were implemented
with the following strategy:
I.    The provision of textbook and workbook was made In all the three
subjects, Nepali, Mathematics and Social Studies.
ii. Textbooks; shared 1:2, or 1:3.
iii. Textbooks stored in classroom.
iv.   Work book individual.
Implementation Strategy as followss
District     RCs      Schools     Teachers      Students
6         24        330           457         33,842
Training:  4 days training for all the teachers.



- 34 -
Table 4 - cont.
4. Phase III, 1992, New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials
In 1992 the new grade I curriculum materials were used in 600 schools of
PEP districts 21
District     RCs     Schools     Teachers      Students
6         45        600          998        50,000
Trainings 12 days for trainers; 12 days for teachers.
5. Evaluation Reports
5.1 Interlm Reports on the Introduction of New Curriculum Grade 1
Materials, May 1990.
5.2  Reports of the Review Meeting, July 1990.
5.3  New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials; Impact Study, August 1990.
5.4  New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials; End of Year Evaluation,
February 1991.
5.5 New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials; Field Visit Reports:
i.    Dang, April 1991
ii.   Dhankuta and Jhapa, April 1991
iii. Kaski and Tanahu, April 1991
5.6 New Curriculum Materials Program; Draft Report; School Evaluation;
First Phase. July 1991.
New Grade 2 Curriculum Materials
1. New Grade 2 curriculum materials were produced in the subjectes Nepali,
Mathematics and Social Studies.
2. In 1991 these materials were used in 30 schools.
3. In 1992, the new grade 2 materials are being used in 330 schools.
2/ The new grade 1 curriculum has been approved by MOEC for National
dissemination during the current school year, starting in January 1993.



- 35 -
Table 4 - cont.
Develo_ment of the Learming Outcomes
1. A draft paper on the learning outcomes after completing the primary cycle
(grades 1-5) was prepared as an outcome of the 6-day seminar on this
topic. The draft of learing outcomes is in the process of field testing.
Table 4*3s  IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORSs  NON-FORMAL EDUCATION
1. Programs
Non-formal programs were started in 1987. The non-formal progrems ares
L.     Out-of-School Program
ii.   Womea Education Program
iii.  Adult Education Program
iv.    Environmental Education Program
v.     Community Reading Center
B ref Olln  of Eac Prram
Trainers,
Trainor's  Reresher  No. of Particl-
Duration  Training   Traling    pant. Enrolled
Proaram        ~~Oblectiv yen(Moth)           2 Gae    mewys      OPer Centter
Out-of4chool    - to provide basic        9                   *             25
Progra literay skillei
(Sioho Sadaon S) - to encourage
studnmt enroll tn
primary schools.
Out-of-Shool    - to sustin litereay;     0         6        no             25
Program I      - to provld. functional
(Sikeha Saden 1)  education up to
grade 5.
Women          - to make IIterate;        9        is         8             26
Education X    - to provide fnctional
shills tralning on
Ilit. related activities.
Women          - to Suin lteracy;        6         a        no             25
Education It   - to gIve advanced
functional skills
trolnlng on llto
related activitles.
Adult Educstion  - to make IlItersat and  9         0         8             is
give functional
nowledge.



- 36 -
Table 4 - cant.
2. Achievements
Centers and ParticiDants
(1987-1992)
No. of Centers   No. of Participants
Programs                                      1987-1992             Enrolled
Out-of-School Program I )
(Sikeha Sadan I)        )
)                    1,495                37,522
Out-of-School Program II )
(Siksha Sadan II)       )
Women Education                                   975                24,183
Adult Education                                   917                22,116
Environmental Education                           310                 n.a.
(schools)
Commmnity Reading Centers                         173                 n.a.
n.a. - not available
3. Evaluation Reports
L.    Effectiveness of the out-of-school program based on Surkhet
district (1989).
ii.   Impact and the Status Report on the Women Education Program phase
I based on Surkhet district (1990).
iii. Impact and the Status Report on the Women Education Program phase
1I (1991).



- 37 -
4. Materials prepared in the Non-formal Units
Name of the Programs       Name of the Materials                   Target Group
Out-of-School Program I   Package
(Siksha Sadan I)           Naulo Bihan (early morning) Part I    Participants
0             a        Part TI
Test Paper
Test paper based on Naulo Bihan Part I
a            a           Part I 
Training Manuals
Trainer Manual                          Trainer
0       a                            Facilitator
Advocacy Book
Sikaha Sadan Ma Padhaun                Parents
Out-of-School Program II Package
(Siksha Sadan II)          Nayan Fadko (New Path Part I)           Participants
*     U   (    *        II)U
Women Education I          Package
Mahila Shaksharta (Women Literacy Book)
Ghar Angan (Home and Courtyard)
Test Paper
Test paper based on Mahila Shaksharta
a 0   a      Ghar Ansan (Rome
and Courtyard)                              w
Training Manuals
Trainer Manual for Women Idu. Program Trainer
a       a a    a    a          a    Facilitator
Women Education XI         Package
Gaon Besi Part I                        Participants
a    a   a   II                            a
Adult Education            Training Manual
Trainer Manual for Adult Edu. Program  Trainer
*       *    a    a    a       0     Facilitator
Environmental              Booklets                                 School and
Education Program          Posters                                  Cmomunity
Notes in each program an Implementation Strategy book is available.



- 38 -
Table 4 - cant.
Table 4.4:  IMPLMENTATION IDICATORS:  EVALUATION AND STUDIES
The Evaluation Unit's mandate vas to monitor the project's progress and
determine its impact. The lists presented below gives the details of the
Evaluation Unit's output.  The EU's work was based onu
i.    Baseline Surveys
ii.   Training Nodules
iii.  Impact Studies of PEP activities
A. Years, 1985-1989
1.   Training in School Managemeut for PCs and RP8s An Evaluation Study
1985186
2.   An Evaluative Study Report on Primary Zducation Projects  CERID 1985186
3.    District Level Training for Primary School Teachers:  An Evaluative
Study, 1985186
4.    An Evaluative Study in Educational Materials Training Workshop for FCs
and BPs, 1986/87
5.    Seminar for Neadmasters of Resource Centers, 1986/87
6.   Evaluation of Training in Project Implementation Strategies and Teaching
Methods for RPs, 1986/87
7.    An Evaluative Study Report on Materials Development (Refresher Training)
Workshop for FCs and RPs (1985 Group), 1986/87
8.    Data Profile of Baseline Surveys 1985/86
9.    Data Profile of Baseline Survey 1985/86s  1986/87
10.   Training Data Profile, 1987/88
11.   12-Day In-Service Teacher Training at Project District (1985 and 1986
Group), 1987/88
12.  Nodule III Supervision Training for PCs and RPs (1985 Group), 1987/88
13.  Module III Supervision Training for RPs (1986 Group), 1987/88
14.   10-Day Educational Materials Training Workshop for Primary Teachers
(1985 Group), 1987/88



- 39 -
Table 4 - coant.
15.   Evaluation Report on the Training of Learning Strategies and Learning
Evaluation (Module 5th and 6th), 1988/89
16. Learning Strategies and Learning Evaluation Training for FCe and PPs
(1985 and 1986 Group), 1988189
17.   An Interim Evaluative Study Report on Primary Education Projects  CERID,
1988/89
B. Years 1989190
1.   Evaluation of Educational Materials Training Vorkshop for PC9 and RPs,
1989/90
2.    Analysis Report on Educational Materials Training Workshop, 1989!90
3.    Analysis of Baseline Data, 1989190
4.    Evaluation of District Level Training (150 hrs.), 1989190
5.    Evaluation of District Level Training in Materials Development
6.    Analysis of Scores of 150 hrs. Training, 1989190
7.    Preparation of District Selection Criteria for Proposed Primary
Education Project, 1989/90
8.    Development of class observation form, November 1989190
9.    Preparation of Summary Sheet of Training, December 1989190
10. Preparation of Summary Sheet of Training, December 1989190
11.  Development of Computer Program of Teachers Behaviors in Classroom,
January/February 1990
12. Revised Quantitative Performance of Project (1989/90)
13.   Baseline Survey of Selected School (PEP and Ron-PEP Comparative)
14. Non-formal Education Need Assessment (Dang, Illaka No. 9)
C. Years 1990/91
1.   An Impact Study of PEP Inputs on Student Achievement, February 1991
2.    An Impact Study of the Training (Basic Needs) on Teachers Behavior in
Classroom, January 1991



- 40 -
Table 4 - coat.
3.    A Comparative Analysis of Students Data:  Repetition, Promotion and
Dropout Ratee (Baseline Survey of Schools), January 1991
4.    Revised Quantitative Performance of the Project, December 1991
5.    First Phases  New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials Evaluation, July 1991
6.    Profile of Training Data
D. Program for 1991192
1.    New Grade 1 Curriculum Materials Evaluation School Survey
2.   New Grade 2 Curriculum Materials Evaluation
3.    Utilization of Resource Centers and RPe
4.   Non-formal Education Program:
Advance Level Women Education Program
Advance Level Out-of-School Education Program
5.    Quantitative Performance of the Project
6.    Baseline Data
7.    Training Data Profile
8.    Inter-District Grade 5 Test
9.    Introducing Criterion Reference Tests on Grade 1 Materials



- 41 -
Table 4 - cont.
OF SWUNTISS (OMt
A. Tpalnipa ad RnaaCrd tit
Iosn mf JrnltnIii&5anmlnanM.r              Zsaiwar                         I
1. Subject TrainIng for               ritih Cnltete. am             0l1                                      T       Sbjet
Examinaer                         Spool llao and Resource                                         144   Teihort/Sub
(Eastern,, ad Contral)           Pereans                                                                 regin
a. PElac.of SsC                      OhE Speleiite=i dI                                                11   Tea hor/Subject
ExAmnlatiao (Rule. and                                                                                   Exp e,h ruJet
Regultlon e   ef Examinatien)                                                44 PT5ru
8. SubjeY Trainin  for SLC          lCE Sp e lt                    10                         134     14   Teher/Subject
Exalinero  - moths, sce          Resource  Per7                                                           epert.
end 8ubJ  rla  (central and                 Edn_          e9
Vector Region Spend)
4. SemInar for Hadol saedtisn        Britieh Coneunlt. Head                                   71       71   Teacher/Subject
=     9boe L r th               nndtr  EOCminer Cenueetion   tter                                           ert.
S. "Wd i qu.tlon Paer                Ned Eamuilner betln                                     11*      11*    Teacher/subjet
onetruetlen workib"            Poter een    d
(xe tem..      33              ierrellte Ce"rD ibrtern Sco 
end Nid.'s.teorn region based)
S. Seminar for  Srmration                    *nd Examiner btion                  44           is      142    T&acher/Subject
of olti-Al"""achme        etter aNd OC                                                           Ep.
construction  erkehop            Spocistoil.tsr
(aC;nt:l Region based,
7.    eminatIon refo, mminer         tnd  xinr         at                       1                           TnherSubjet
(Central. *  batnd Wectorn   81tter aW OC                                                                   cher/t.bj
and For Western Region baso oed)
S. Adailnetrative Saff Training      OC! specieoIIata and                        2                      2 Teacher/Subject
(Central level Keth.andu)        Rameures Peraeen                                                         xet
9. SemInar for Innal Model           OCC SpeIall .t. end                                      10       10   Teacher/Subject
cluestion PaperReorepfw
(Central level. Kothsendu)                                                                              Export.
10. SubJect TraInIng for S.C         OCE SpecIal lots               100                               100   Teacher/Subject
11. SubJect Training for MeC         OCE Special lafte ed Resource               17                    17   Te*achr/Subject
Exmi nor.                        Person                                                                  Expert
(Emnatern Regional)
12. Subject Training for SLC         OCE SpecIalleft and Raeourc                 17                    97   Teacher/Suject
examinor.           ereent s                                                                             Expert
18. Pellcy of S.C Examination        amI Spec Il Its and Reource                 1i                    11 Tehr/boc
(Rule. sod RegulatIon.           Person                                                                  Expe*rtSbo
of Exaualnatlena)                                                                                         xr
14. subject Training for SLC         British Conaultent. eNd                                   3       U      echrSujc
Exealner., (Kath, Science and     ce special letowpr
Mol elab Kathanu based)lxer
18. SubJect TrainIng for MeC          British consultant                                      71       71   Teacher/Subject
Examinter. CPo&hara)             and OCE Conelulnt.                                                       xpr
16. SemInar for Model bastion        OCE Special lot., beeatleo5                                       5     Teacher/subject
Paper ConatructIon               Setter Heand ExamIner and                                               Expert
(lCthsNdu bamad)                 British Conultonto
17. Seamecr for Model Eusotlon       OCCIlSpocollet.I D  and Reo"urce                         a        as   Teacher/uject
Preparation 0(athumnul bae.d)    Person                                                                  Expert Sb
1*. Model QueStIon Paper             CCIL Specialists and Raeaurc                             20       OS   Teacher/Slubject
Construetion Workshop             PaersnEpr
(Pohere baed)                                                                                            IXO
19. model Question Paper             OCE Special late aWd Remource                           8So             Teacher/Subject
Construction Workshop            Person                                                                  Epr
(Nape bun) baasoed)r
20. Model buetles Paper              OmI Specialeto and Reesrce                               80        0   Teasher/ Gobec
Construction Werkahopor.                                                                                 Ea      Surt
O(athmnd  based)                                                                                          hr
21. Model beetilon Paper             OM! Special lets and Reource                             20       25   Teacher/Subject
Construction Workshop            Person                                                                  Epr
(orert based)Esr



i,X    8  a  |         S 
*1  I idg5ii5j1



- 43 -
Table 4 - cont.
OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER OF EXAMINATIONS (OCE)
Activities
1989/90
1. Prepared (MS) marking scheme for model questions (Eng + Math + Science)
2. Prepared statistics of 1988
3. Prepared MS for 20 subjects of 1989
4. Planning of co-ordination meeting of Head Examiners
S. Preparation of Item Bank (English + Math + Science)
1990191
No. of
Types of Trainig/Seminars/Workshops         Trainers               Particigants
1.  Reform in the Question Papers     Read Examiners, Question          30
Seminar (Nepali, History and      Setters & OCE Specialists
Geography)
2. Seminar for the Preparation                    0                     30
of Marking Schemes
3. Coordination Meeting of            Head Examiners                    30
Examiners and lead Examiners      and Examlners
(Math, Science and English)
Activities
1. Preparation of Item Bank
(English, Math, Science)
- Field test of item In
Katbmandu, Lalitpur,
Bhaktapur, Sindhupalchovk,
Surkhet, Kaski and Bank.
2. Printing and distribution                                             75
of Statistics                                                     districts



- 44 -
Project Costs and Financina
Table 5s PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
SAR                     Actual
Expense Category                 GON   IDA  UNICEF  TOTAL  GON   IDA   UNICEF  Total
1.  Civil Works                 0.55   3.13    -      3.68  0,49  2.68    -       3.17
2. Building Materials
and Furniture               0.17   2.28    -      2.45  0.42  1.31    -       1.73
3. Equipment, Books and
Journals                    0.09   2.01    -      2.10  0.01  0.96    -       0.97
4. Professional Services and
Project Studies              -      0.80    -     0.80   -    0.04    -       0.04
5. Technical Assistance, Local
Consultants and
Miscellaneous Costs          -      1.69   1.70   3.39  0.03  0.38   1.70    2.11
6. Educational and Other
Consumable Materials        0.14   0.56    -      0.70  0.22  0.63    -       0.85
7. Staff Salaries, Allowances,
Training and Operating
Costs                       1.01   1.03    -      2.04  1.69  2.39    -       4.08
8.  Preparatory Activities       -       -      -      -     -    0.22    -       0.22
9.  Unallocated                 0.24   1.28    -      1.51   -     -      -        -
Total Proiect Costs         2.19  12.78   1.70  16.67  2.86  8.61   1.70   13.17
Less Taxes and Duties     0.77    -       -     0.77   -     -      -        -
Total Net ProJect Costs     1     1La    a.2  aL.2J  &&M  L&i   ^IIQ   JaLZ



- 45 -
Table do POJECT COSTS al
Appraisal Estimates          Actual Costs
CUSS Million)             (US$ Million)
ComDonents                                   Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Poreein  Total
A. PRIMARY SCHOOLS AND
RESOURCE CENTERS                          1.12    1.92    3.04      0.77    2.39    3.16
B.  FIELD ADMINSTRATIVE OFFICES
1. BEGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICES
Eastern Regional Office                0.20    0.18    0.38      0.06    0.20    0.26
Western Regional Office                0.11    0.12    0.23      0.05    0.21    0.26
Sub-Total                            0.32    0.29    0.61      0.10    0.41    0.52
(Regional Education Offices)
2. DISTRICT EDUCATION OFFICES             0.56    0.34    0.91      0.82    2.43    3.25
Sub-Total                            0.88    0.64    1.51      0.92    2.84    3.77
(Field Administrative Offices)
C. CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
1. Ministry of Education & Culture        0.64    0.73    1.36      0.14    0.39    0.53
2. Curriculum Textbook                    1.56    2.04    3.60      0.64    1.89    2.53
Supervision Development Center
3. office of the Controller of
Examinations                           1.37    1.08    2.44      0.36    1.02    1.38
Sub-Total                            3.56    3.85    7.41      1.14    3.30    4.44
(Central Administrative Offices)
D. STUDIES                                     0.50    0.06    0.55     0.03    0.08    0.11
Total BASELINE COSTS                    6.06    6.46   12.52
Physical Contingencies                0.61    0.65    1.25
Price Contingencies                   1.48    1.42    2.90
TOTAL  MROJECT COSTS                          8.14    8.53   16.67      2.86    8.61   11.47
al Costs financed by UNICEF not included.



- 46 -
Prolect Results
Table 7s PROJECT BENEFITS
1. Impact of Training on Teachers' Professional Knowledge
The following table reveals that the grand average score is 33Z in
pre-tests whereas it is 592 in the post-tests,31 indicating that the teachers
have benefited from PEP training by improving their professional knowledge and
skills.
Table 7.1i PRE- AND POST-TEST SCORES (K) OF TEACHERS PROFESIONAL KNOWLEDGE
IN PEP DISTRICTS
(Total Number of Examineess  154)
District                        Pre-Test       Post-Test      Z Gain
Thapa                              37             70            89
Tanahu                             31             53            71
Kaski                              34             58            71
Dang                               29             54            86
Grand Average (X)             33            59             79
3/ Pro-tests are administered before the intended training and post-test are
administered to participants once they completed the training course.
Source: Evaluation Unit. PEP, MOEC.



- 47 -
Table 7 - cont.
Data in Table 7.2 indicates that dhe grand average percentage score
of teachers' knowledge of the PEP districts is 59 whereas in the non-PEP
districts it is 26.
Table 7.28 AVERAGE SCORES OF TEACMERS' PROFESSIONAL KNOWLEDGE IN
PEP AND NON-PEP DISTRICTS
(Number of PEP Teachers: 154; non-PEP: 165)
Average         Difference
Districts                          Score (2)       in Scores (2)   X Difference
Thapa (PEP)                          70 )               44               169
Morang (Non-PEP)                     26 )
Tanahu (PEP)                         53 )               29               120
Tanahu (Non-PEP)                     24 )
Kaski (PEP)                          58 )               31               115
Lamjung (Non-PEP)                    27 )
Dang (PEP)                           54 )               27               100
Dang (Non-PEP)                       27 )
Grand Average - PEP             59 )               33               127
Non-PEP        26 )
Sources Evaluation Unit, Primary Education Project, MOSC.
2. Impact of Training on Teachers' Behavior in the Classroom
Table below (7.3) shows that the PEP trained teachers' behavior in
classroom have been significantly improved.



- 48 -
Table 7 - cont.
TABLE 7.3: RATINGS OF TEACUERS' BEHAVIOR IN PEP AND NON-PEP DISTRICTS
PEP Districtst  Kaski and Tanahu       Non-PEP Districtes  Lamjung and Gorkha
No. of PEP Schooles   30               No. of Non-PEP Schools:    26
No. of PEP Teachers:  60               No. of Non-PEP Teachers*  52
Maximam Scores 100
Min=mum Scores    0
Mean Difference in
Components of                                  Score  Score Mean   Difference
Teachers' Behavior                                (1)       (Z)           (Z)
1.  Lesson Plan Preparation and Use       PEP   63.7
NPEP   2.7      60.9         95.7
2.  Types of Teaching Methods Used and    PEP   70.5
Appropriateness to the Lesson Taught  UPEP  33.0       37.4         53.1
3.  Use of Educational Materials           PEP   71.4
NPEP  37.9      33.4         46.8
4.  Students' Participation in            PEP   74.8
Learning Activities                   NPEP  48.5       26.2         35.0
5. Evaluation of Lesson Taught            PEP   74.5
NPEP  32.7      41.8         56.1
6.  Homework Assignments                  PEP   72.5
NPEP  23.1      49.4         68.1
7.  Overall Achievement of Lesson         PEP   66.2
Objectives                            NPEP  33.9       32.3         48.7
8. Overall Impression of Observers
(classroom management,                PEP   66.7
motivation and presentation)          NPEP  32.7       34.0         51.0
Sourcpi  Sources  Evaluation Unit, Primary Education Project, MOEC.



- 49 -
Table 7 - cont.
3. Imgrovements in Students' Promotion, Repetition and Dropout Rates
In March 1990, a study to determine the impact of the PEP inputs in
terms of repetition, promwtion and dropout rates, based on student data of PEP
and non-PEP adjacent districts, was conducted. The study showed that PEP
inputs have contributed to a reduction of wastage in the primary education.
Repeater rates are lower in all classes of PEP districts, by gender and
irrespective of gender, compared to the non-PEP districts. The combined data
show that in the non-PEP districts the repeater rates are greater by 8.OZ
compared to the PEP ones.
The promotion rates of all classes by gender and irrespective of gender
are higher in the PEP districts compared to the non-PEP districts. According
to the combined data (grades 1 to 5) there is 12.9Z greater promotion in the
PEP districts compared to the non-PEP districts.
The new entrant rate of class 1 in the PEP districts is higher by 6.5Z
than non-PEP districts. The new entrant rates of other classes (grades 2 to
5) of PEP districts are lower than non-PEP ones, and this is because of
greater rates of promotion from lower grades and lower rates of repeaters in
grade 1 in the PEP districts.
The dropout rates within an academic year (i.e. computed taking the
difference of initial and end of academlc year enrollment) are lower for all
classes irrespective of gender in the PEP district compared to the adjacent
non-PEP adjacent districts. The grand total data (grades 1 to 5) show that
the dropout rate is greater by 6.7Z in the non-PEP districts than PEP ones.
The dropout rates between academic years, irrespective of gender, for
all classes in PEP districts, are lower than non-PEP districtst there 8.41
more dropouts in the non-PEP districts compared to the PEP adjacent districts.



- 50 -
Table 7 - cant.
4.  BmLrovement in Students' Achievements.
A study published In February 1991 vas aimed at detemining student
achievements in the subjects taught at prlmry level (i.e. Nepali, Social
Studies, Mathematics, Health Education, Science and Health Zducation and
English) and at comparing student achievement levels in PEP and non-PEP
districts.
Table 7.4: DIFFERENCES IN STUDEN S' POST-TEST SCORES IN
PEP AND NON-PEP DISTRICTS
PEP       Non-PEP
Post-Test   Post-Test Difference In
Diff mean   Diff Mean      PEP and
Subj ect                       Score (Z)    Score (Z)  Non-PEP Scores  Diff I
Nepali                             62.5        47.5          15.0        31.6
Social Studies                    60.2         39.5          20.7        52.4
Health Zducation                   67.3        46.4          20.9        45.0
Mathematics                        57.5        36.3          21.2         58.4
Science and Health Education      70.2         56.3          13.9        24.7
English                            61.7        37.3          24.2        64.9
Grand Total                  63.2         43.9          19.3        43.9
The findings indicate that the academic achievement levels of the PEP
students in all subjects In the post-test are significantly higher than the
non-PEP students.



- 51 _
status of Coeante
Table 8S COMPLIANCE WITH MAJOR COVENANTS
Credit
Agreement   Status     Description of Covenant                Comments
Section
3.02          ok    Employment of consultants
satisfactory to the Association.
3.03(a)       ok    Insurance of Imported goods.
3.03(b)       ok    Goods and service to be used
exclusively for the project.
3.04          ok    Establish a Project Implementa
tion Board (PIB).
3.05          ok    Establish a Project Implementa-
tion Unit (PIU) with such power.
staffing and funds as shall shall
be required.
3.06          ok    Prior to the establishment of a
cluster of schools establish a
Resource Center Management Comittee.
3.07          ok    Prepare and furnish full working
drawings of the buildings.
3.09(c)       Ok    Use its best efforts to, upon
completion and based on actual needs.
appoint such staff as regular staff
at adequate levels of seniority.
3.10(a)       ok    Furnish, plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents,
construction and procurement schedules.
3.10(b)       ok    Maintain records and procedures,
disclose use of goods and services,
enable IDA to visit facilities and
sites and examine records and documents,
furnish Information, etc.
3.11          ok    Carry out the development of the Sano
Thlm. Campus in accordance with the
Master Plan.



- 52 -
Table 8 - cont.
Credit
Agreement   Status       Description of Covenant               Comments
Section
3.12          ok    Take all such action necessary
to acquire such land and rights
for carrying out the project
and furnish evidence.
3.08(a)      not   Evaluate the adequacy of the        )  NOEC was reminded
ok    organizational structure of KOEC  )  about this covenant
regional and district offices...  )  during consecutive
for cost effective Implementa-    )  supervision mis-
tion of the borrower's            )  sions.  MOEC agreed
decentralization policies.         )  to conduct the
3 evaluation lime-
3.08(b)      not    Furnish for review the results of )  diately after the
ok    the above evaluation and a draft  )  March 1987 Super-
comprehensive plan for the        )  vision mission and
Improvement of primary education  )  subsequently to pre-
and its administration.            )  pare the plan. At
) the time of the
3.08(c)      not    Thereafter taking into accouAt    )  January 1988 super-
ok    IDA's comments implement the said )  vision, MOEC had not
recommendations and adopt and     )  done so.  The need
utilize such comprehensive plan.  )   for the reform vas
) considered not great
X enough to cause IDA
) to take harsher
) measures and the
) covenant was dropped
) as unenforceable.
3.09(a)  partially  Select suitably qualified              Partial compliance.
ok      candidates fromthe education
cadre of MOEC for training under
the project.
Other Covenants
4.01(a)       ok    Maintain records and separate
accounts to reflect resources
and expenditures.
4.01(b)       ok    Ci)  maintain records on
statements of expenditures;
(ii) retain such records until one
year after the closing date;



53 -
Table 8 - cont.
Credit
Agreement  Status        Description of Covenant              Comments
Section
(iii) enable ID  to ezine
such recorde.
4.01(c)       ok    Have the accounts referred            Often delayed.
to In 4.01(a) and 4.01(b)
audited and furnished to IDA.
ok - Covenant complied with.



- 54 _
Use of Bank Resources
Table 9J MXSSXON DATA SY STAUG OF PPOJECT
Total                     Performance
Stage of        Mouthl   No. of   Days In   Specialization      Rating         Types of
Project Cycle      Year    Persons   Field    Renresented 4/    Status 51       Problem 6/
Identification
Mission          U1187      2         30     ED, C                 -             -
Post-Identifi-
cation Mission     03182      1         23     RD                    -             -
Preappraisal
Mission          11182      4        112     ED(2), A, MS           -            -
Preparation
Mission          04183      1         15     ED                     -            -
Appraisal Missiua  07/83       3        80     ED, A, MS              -            -
Follow-up
mission          05184      2         15    ED, A                   -
Follow-up
Mission          11184      1         10     ED                     -
Supervision I      05185      1          9     A                     -
Supervision II     07185      1         17     ID                    3           P, x
Supervision III    02/86      1         11     RD                    4           m
Supervision IV     04/86      2         20     ED, A                 3           F
Supervision V     07-08186    3         26    A, PO, RD              2           P
Supervision VX     03187      2         32     SD, PO                2           N
Supervision VII   06-07/87    2         16    A. PO                  2           M
Supervision VIII   01/88      2         25    A, RD                  2           x
Supervision IX    10-11188    2         26     RD, A                 2           K, PR
Supervision X     10-11/89    2         40     ID, SC                2           K, F
Supervision XI    01-02/89    2         30     RD, A                 2           F, PR, M
Supervision nIl   05/90       1          5     SC                    3
Supervision XIII   10190      2         12     EC, PO                3           F, x
Supervision XIV   03-04191    2         52     IC, PO                2           x
Supervision XV     09191      1         19     RC                    2
Supervision m      05/92      1         14     IC                   1I
4/  ED - Educators A - Architect; C - Division Chief; PO - Program Officer;
A - Architect;
MS - Management Specialist; XC - Economist.
51 1 - problem free or minor problems 2 - moderate problmss 3 - major problems;
4 - problem project.
61  M   malnasgerial; P - political; F 8 Financial; PR a procurement.



ft55 m
ho 1d10  Pivlr       w     J_fe d_ FAF PM    PM/ 41o   pv                  1mm
Thu.uoh Ak..eatl               0.1   8.2  90.8  90.4                                                    5.1
Apperail.lhv.ub Wth_ ti,.noae                   18.8                                                    18.5
Suverulelon (Buek 6f)                      0.1   4.4   8.6  11.0  14.0  10.8  12.8  18.8  12.0   5.2   92.5
fw_e"Ilon (ololdoot NIeu)                                                      9.6   6.9   B.2   0.5   15.9
TSAL                      0.1   6.1  90.0  49.8  5.6  11.0  14.0  10.8  14.9  2.5  17.2  5.7   181.8
-__ __          ___                                 _    __



IBRD 17639
59'                  N*%%                                     82                                                             841                                                                                                                                M       9 MARCH 1964
"'c' >,  -                  '-                    C         H         I    N              A                                                                       NEPAL
fOA5CKULA 0  ,  .                       H U M L A                                                                                                              P 'RIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                          30
S2 '                                                                                                                                                                l A   t  |  <>   X    ' Kaoski  Project districts
*i .r            9AJNANG          -'.AJHANG |-                               N                                                                                                    f     Ptoject site5
gB A I T A D I  'A\   <X   J  B A J U R A T        <   M  U G  U              g         \                                                                                               Selected highways
{_.gY;     ~~'  >IP       /                                                                                                      * _  _  8 r \ w1  r     69    National cpitoal
4 MA                                                                                                                      Regional headquarters
DOELI)HUR    ,J0 < T I  r :v ;,.,/  gp   ) .    j U 8A L A  \      g                  \              Z ,z,                                                              0    Selected towns
aACHHAM  )  KALIKOT                       S_*          CO                   \ P A  r                                                                         -District boundaries
__   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                                                                                                **-'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.  nal boundaries
..A NCHJU5)                                 SALE KH                                                                 5 T                                                                        -Regional boundaries
KA  ILHA LPUi|                                           ,   /  @    '@-                                                                                                          lnteesrAJA KO T  Inte aotiono l  boundaries
>. S K A I      L A L I  {                       /                                - ---'                  "
\ n ^fE }t~~~~~~~rkhet    t   9 U K U M                                                                                                                                                                                                                       D        /,   \    
X                                                                  f - A   D   I   Y   A   \ 5 k   g;5 A L Y~~~~~~~~~~~A     A   N   .}\\8._>pMYA G     \      j;
d~~  *<AR12IYA~~~~~~  SALTA    50/tAY  G 
'>   ab   >~~~~,  ,_         ! ~~R O L I A     \,            <.      )           *_2    G   -  ' 6    ANK                                                                                                                        ,
\ ,-    -       / x A'        P           r .       A GLUN         $        g                           9 KAMJUNG/ 005K
BANKS =-\0                                                                           t                             RASUWA    T   I /                                                                              2
N%                                        Lm2Wi   U
GHAKHANCH ~ ~       ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~                                  \OLKH 
9 i  r    r-   NxfAW  rt OK71        Rke,stser  .-.'-f< thbosoN      rS                               0LNT _PALOK AK
S7w.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/-,   r>f                                                                           D1                                          twto saaD huaolF rbO,iJi
Bhei~~gI,e,ee  *~~CH/TAWAN         A.kA AUR  K         A9HR  jf .cl- !                a U   UMUSANKHU   SAWAf    ALJN 
Lrs beAA 1 6Xrx 01 OV wilOV rwr 3rmon! r,r 7bnce olAMECHA                                                                                                               -
S,2-  64-A NIW 1                             8,6          ALONU .              OK
S5INDH U/I                   HTPO                   Y        ACTA\
ARLAHi  ----  ~~~~~~'  ~~                               [LA
KILOMETERS 0   20    40    40    80    100   120   140   16                                                                                                                     0tUDTPU    ,  
MILESO         2 o   0         40              go 9      10                                                                                                                             '         SiRAtI
Fnenc Cswseh-n The des,hshss used es' te bs,eIe'se eAse ee ti ftoe 'o ee
ii'et. e- fte es,t em Th.s' KBes ed the kthteeOeaithes  Cs.ps,hth-Wfs e f9je1te
soth BeOst.o sth, sIssY hehe   M~s eode,eee, s, euetesue of thed boeseee
Sn'                                             5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94'                                              55'                                                                9



