Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3762-NEI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 12.10 MILLION
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
April 5, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1           =  NRs 14.90
NR 1           =  US$0.067
NRs 100,000   =  US$6,700
NRs 1,000,000 = US$67,000
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
SCHOOL YEAR
January-December
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB         -   Asian Development Bank
CTSDC       -   Curriculum, Textbook, and Supervision Development Center
DEC         -   District Education Committee
DEO         -   District Education Officer
FC          -   Field Coordinator
HMG         -   His Majesty's Government
IDA         -   International Development Association
JTA         -   Junior Technical Assistant
JEMC        -   Janek Educational Materials Center
MOEC        -   Ministry of Education and Culture
NESP        -   New Education System Plan
NPC         -   National Planning Commission.
OCE         -   Office of the Controller of Examinations
PIU         -   Project Implementation Unit
PMU         -   Primary Materials Unit
PSTU        -   Primary Supervision & Training Unit
RC          -   Resource Center
RETT        -   Radio Education Teacher Training
RP          -   Resource Person
SBU         -   School Building Unit
SEDEC       -   Science Education Development Center
SLC         -   School Leaving Certificate
SMC         -   School Management Committee
SOE         -   Statements of Expenditure
TA          -   Technical Assistance
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO      -   United Nations Educational Scientific and
Cultural Organization
UNICEF      -   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:       Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:          Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) 12.10 million
(US$12.78 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:   The project, which represents the first intervention by
IDA in primary education in Nepal, has been designed
as a pilot project, which would seek to: (a) achieve
low-cost qualitative improvements in primary education;
and (b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity
in the education sector. The project would provide assistance
to about 700 primary schools in six of Nepal's 75 districts
through the provision of effective in-service teacher training
systems with follow-up supervision, better school management
and community support, better teaching materials, and improved
physical facilities. Communication problems and economic
constraints would be addressed in part through the clustering
of schools around a resource center which would assume some of
the educational responsibilities for teacher training and
supervision. Technical assistance would be extended to the
Curriculum, Textbook, and Supervision Development Center and
other agencies of the Ministry of Education and Culture
respomsible for project planning and implementing the
Government's educational policies. A reform of the examina-
tion system for the School Leaving Certificate would be
undertaken.
Benefits and
Risks:        Project benefits could be considerable if ways to address
difficult issues under conditions of tight financial con-
straints and difficult communications are successfully
developed. In the long-term these developments will assist
in raising Nepal's low literacy level (19%), improving agri-
cultural productivity, and creating an effective primary
education subsector, which would provide the base for
improved secondary and higher education. The project is
spread over six districts with poor communications and
the absorptive capacity of the Ministry is limited. While
the most accessible districts have been selected for the
project and the strengthening of the Ministry is one of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
the objectives of the project, the risks due to these
limitations cannot be entirely removed. Risks will, how-
ever, be reduced by inter alia,(a) a simplified delivery
system for inservice teacher training and supervision;
(b) the provision of technical and management assistance;
(c) intensive monitoring and evaluation; and Cd) the
appointment of well qualified and motivated staff.
Estimated Cost:              Item                        US$ Millions
Local /a Foreizn Total la
…     US$ million------
Primary Schools and Resource
Centers                          1.12      1.92     3.04
Regional & District Offices        0.88      0.63     1.51
Central Offices                    3.56      3.85     7.41
Studies                            0.50     0.06      0.56
Total Base Cost                    6.06      6.46    12.52
Physical Contingency               0.61     0.64      1.25
Price Contingency                  1.48      1.42     2.90
Total Proiect Cost                 8.15      8.52    16.67
Financina Plan:                                         US$ Millions
Local   Foreign  Total
…U-----S$ million…-----
IDA                                5.45     7.33    12.78
UNICEF                             0.50 Lb  1.20 lb  1.70
Government                         2.19               2.19
Total                              8.14 /c  8.53 /c 16.67
La  Includes duties and taxes of US$0.77 million equivalent.
Lb Still subject to agreement between Government and UNICEF.
UNICEF financing will be on a parallel basis.
/c Totals differ from that shown in the estimated cost
due to rounding.



-iii-
Estimated
Disbursements:                                              US$ Millions
IDA FY               1985  1986  1987   1988   1989
Annual               0.78  2.56  3.82   3.44   2.18
Cumulative           0.78  3.34  7.16  10.60  12.78
Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  4785-NEP; Nepal - Primary Education Project (March 27, 1984)
Map: IBRD 17639R



I.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TLE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal in an amount of Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 12.10 million (US$12.78 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a Primary Education Project. UNICEF would provide
US$1.7 million equivalent on a parallel financing basis towards meeting the
technical assistance cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report, "Nepal:  Recent Developments and
Selected Issues in Trade Promotion" (Report No. 4663-NEP), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on October 19, 1983. The principal features and
recent performance of the economy are described below. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.      Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at US$150 (1981) and health and education
standards are below the average for South Asia: life expectancy at birth is
only about 45 years; infant mortality, about 148 per thousand; and adult
literacy, only 20%. The population., estimated to be 15.0 million (1981),
grew at a rate of about 2.6% per year during 1971 and 1981. About 95% of the
population lives in rural areas.
4.      Population density with respect to arable land (356 per sq. km) has
reached very high levels, and cultivation has been extended on to marginal
lands and forests. Forests have been further denuded to meet the growing
demand for fuelwood, on which Nepal depends for over 90% of its energy
consumption, mostly for household cooking and heating. On account of
deforestation and excessive grazing on the hills and mountains, with high
rainfall, there is accelerated soil erosion leading to silting of rivers,
downstream flooding and loss of agricultural productivity all along.
5.      Agriculture, largely rainfed, still accounts for nearly 60% of
Nepal's GDP and 80% of merchandise exports, and provides the main source of
livelihood to over 90% of the populal:ion. Crop production accounts for about
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. P-3737-NEP) dated March 1, 1984 for the
Karnali Preparation Project - Phase I in Nepal.



-2-
60% of agricultural output, livestock for 30%, and forestry for 10%. Paddy
is the principal food crop (planted on about half of the total cropped area),
followed by maize, wheat, millet and barley. Cash crops (oilseeds, jute,
sugarcane and tobacco) are grown on about 10% of the cropped area. About 15%
of total rural incomes rise from nonagricultural activities, of which cottage
industries are one of the more important and engage over one million people
on a part-time basis.
6.      Apart from agricultural land, NepalVs only other important
exploitable resources are hydropower and tourist attractions. The exploita-
tion of the vast hydropower resources beyond that required to satisfy the
country's own power demand, however, will depend crucially on Nepal's ability
to enter complex financial exploitation and export agreements with neighbor-
ing countries. The tourism sector, based on Nepal's mountain environment and
its rich cultural heritage, has been dynamic, though it accounts for only
about 1% of GDP. Tourism now provides about 20% of the country's foreign
exchange earnings. About 60% of earnings from tourism are retained in Nepal.
7.      Following centuries of self-imposed isolation, efforts to develop the
economy of Nepal began in the micl-1950"s against extremely heavy odds. The
country had virtually no physica'L infrastructure, an ancient administrative
system, and very limited educational and health services. The resource base
is relatively narrow and its development hindered by the difficult topography
and landlocked position. Against this background, Nepal's primary develop-
ment objective for twenty years, betweien 1955 and 1975, was to build basic
infrastructure and lay the groundwork for future economic growth. The
country has made good progress in pursuit of that objective. It now has a
basic road network linking many economic centers.  Kathmandu and a few other
towns have basic utilities and public trans'port. Schools have been built for
almost half of the primary school age children and there are a number of high
schools and a national university. A rudimentary hospital system, including
rural health posts, has been built. Some progress has also been made in
establishing the institutional framework for agricultural and industrial
development, including extension and research activities, financial institu-
tions and industrial enterprises. Yet in all these areas, the country has a
long way to go to achieve a level of development comparable to other develop-
ing countries: thus', for example, theb public and private institutions in
Nepal must continue to expand and upgrade essential physical facilities,
acquire the necessary expertise in handling economic and financial affairs,
build up adequate technical and managerial  cadres, and establish merit-based
systems of personnel management.
8.      The Fifth Plan (1975/76-1979/80) marked a shift in development
objectives, with increased emphasis being pLaced on acceleration of economic
growth, employment creation, and raising the living standards of the
population. These objectives have been reiterated in the Sixth Plan
(1980/81-1984/85). Moreover, the stated strategy of the Sixth Plan quite
appropriately (a) accords high priority to developing agriculture, small-
scale industries and Nepal's abundant water resources; (b) stresses soil
conservation and population control; and (c) emphasizes full utilization of
existing infrastructure and alleviation of absorptive capacity constraints,



-3-
including human resource development. The development strategy also calls
for increased involvement of the private sector in agriculture,
manufacturing, trade, tourism, construction and transport operations.
Investment expenditures, supported by growing foreign assistance, have
increased rapidly over the last two Plans, from $146 million (9% of GDP) in
1974/75 to about $390 million (15% of GDP) in 1981/82, and there have been
substantial shifts in the composition of spending away from transport to
agriculture, power and social services. GDP growth, however, has barely kept
up with that of population.
9.      Part of the explanation for this stagnation lies in factors beyond
Nepal's control such as, for example, the difficult topography and the poor
resource base.  But factors within Nepal's control have also contributed to
the stagnation. Severe project implementation problems have been encountered
by Government and donors alike in most sectors of the economy, thereby lower-
ing the rate of growth of capital formation. In addition, the expected
returns on those investments which took place often did not materialize
largely because necessary complementary investments or current spending were
lacking, and because of managerial deficiencies. A good example is the
agriculture sector. In the past, insufficient attention was paid to bringing
water down to the farm level and this was compounded by inadequate support
services such as extension and research, by the lack of timely supplies of
improved seed, fertilizer and other inputs such as credit, by the lack of
farm-to-market roads, and by very low producer margins. Future development
of irrigation and agriculture would therefore need to emphasize complementary
investments, improvements in agricultural input supplies and adequate
producer margins.
10.     The shortage of funds for current spending needs to be addressed by
further efforts at domestic resource mobilization. In recent years, Nepal's
efforts at resource mobilization have focussed on tightening income tax
assessment and collection; on discretionary measures largely in the area of
indirect taxes; and on reducing subsidies to public enterprises. While there
has, as a result, been a steady increase in revenues, the tax structure
remains inelastic. Some scope exists for increasing Nepal's tax elasticity
by shifting items on the indirect tax schedules from specific to ad valorem
basis. There also seems to be scope for increasing yields from the land tax,
urban property taxes and income taxes.
11.     Over the past two years, several positive steps have been taken to
strengthen public sector management. These steps have included increases in
the traditionally very low civil service salaries, establishment of public
service training facilities, simplification of budgetary procedures accom-
panied by stricter enforcement of expenditure accounting, and granting of
more autonomy to public enterprises in matters concerning personnel and
pricing policies. The implementation of these administrative reforms would
have to be pursued by a high-level monitoring of important administrative
issues such as appointment of competent staff, job security and decision-
making authority. Also, public enterprise reform needs to be pursued by
measures aimed at reducing costs and increasing efficiency. In this regard,
the Government has taken initial steps, subjecting public enterprises to



-4-
.increased competition from the private sector through liberalization of
licensing in industry, transport and smnall-scale hydropower generation. At
the same time, in September 1983, the Government announced its intention to
involve the private sector in the owneirship and control of public enterprises
through the sale of some public enterprise shares to private investors.
12.      Because of slow economic growth, Nepal's balance of payments has been
characterized by widening trade deficit:s, partly offset by surpluses from
invisibles. The current account deficit (averaging $100 million annually
during 1979/80-1981/82) has traditionally been more than matched by inflows
of official grants and concessional loans (averaging $128 million annually
during 1979/80-1981/82), leading to surpluses in the overall balance of
payments in most years. Nevertheless, foreign exchange reserves have
declined from being equivalent to about one year of imports in the early   -
1970's to six months in 1982, and four months in mid-1983.
13.      To sustain and further develop its economy, Nepal must therefore
mobilize additional free foreign exchange through export promotion and effi-
cient import substitution. Improving agricultural production, rural incomes
and food distribution within the country is a major way of doing so, if only
to avoid the need to import and distribute large quantities of foodgrains in
the future. Agricultural development also remains the key to a gradual
expansion of Nepal's traditional merchandise exports. In addition, develop-
ment of energy resources is a major means to strengthening the balance of
payments by reducing the need to import fuel and opening up an export
potential. Recently, Nepal has legislated a wide range of fiscal and
administrative incentives for industrial investors and exporters, par-
ticularly in the private sector. The implementation of these incentives,
aad the alleviation of the severe transport and transit constraints facing
the country's trade sector, must constitute essential elements of a trade
promotion strategy for Nepal.
1,4.     Nepal is faced with highly challenging prospects and tasks in
addressing its multiple long-term development problems. While it attempts
to mobilize domestic resources to finance about 40-50% of development
expenditures, external assistance, at concessional terms, will continue to be
a vital factor in financing investment and effecting economic growth. In the
last three years, aid commitments to Nepal have averaged about $250 million
per year, almost entirely in the form of grants and concessional credits with
grant elements in excess of 70%. Aid diisbursements have grown from about
$110 million in 1979/80 to an estimated $175 million in 1982/83. Nearly 70%
of total aid disbursements have come from members of the Nepal Aid Group,
formed in 1976 and now comprising eight DAC countries and four multilateral
agencies.
15.     As of December 31, 1982, Nepal's official foreign debt outstanding
was $297 million, of which $251 million was due to multilateral agencies. As
virtually all loans have been concessional, diebt service payments, including
payments to the IMF, have remained small in relation to exports of goods and
services. In 1982/83, debt service payments were about $15 million, equiv-
alent to 7% of exports of goods and services. Over the medium term, these



-5-
payments are projected to remain at less than 10% of Nepal's exports of goods
and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL 1/
16.     Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit of
US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then, 32
additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$369.5 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide
4          variety of sectors.  Six of these sectors account for about 86% of IDA
credits by amount: irrigation/agriculture (US$170.1 million for fourteen
projects); water supply and sewerage (US$46.8 million for three projects),
power (US$40.8 million for one project); telecommunications (US$21.7 million
for three projects); highways (US$19.2 million for two projects); and rural
development (US$19.0 million for two projects). The proposed credit would be
the third in FY84. It will bring the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal
to US$393.3 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have
been made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal (US$3.1 million)
in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. In addition, IFC approved a loan of
US$6.23 million equivalent to Nepal Orind Magnesite (Private) Limited (i.e. a
private company) on March 16, 1982. The loan was to help finance a US$24.9
million project to mine and process magnesite ore.
17.     Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level com-
pared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development
and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a major bottleneck. The main
constraint on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and
implementation. The Bank Group has provided assistance to the Government
in project preparation through a Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No.
659-NEP) and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical assis-
tance projects financed by UNDP. Furthermore, the present Resident
Representative in Kathmandu has had a significant impact in improving project
implementation performance. As a result, the rate of disbursements is
improving; during FY82 and FY83, US$28.5 and US$37.4 million equivalent,
respectively, was disbursed compared to an annual average disbursement of
about US$17 million during the previous five years. Project completion
reports have been prepared for five projects--First Telecommunications
(Credit No. 166), First Highways (Credit No. 223), Tourism (Credit No. 291),
Birganj Irrigation (Credit No. 373) and Settlement Project (Credit No. 505).
All five projects experienced delays in implementation, and institutional
improvements were less than anticipated; however, all five generated accept-
able rates of return.
11  As of September 30, 1983.



-6-
18.     The Bank Group's current lending strategy places major emphasis in
assisting the Governmenit in its efforts to contain the high level of popula-
tion growth, address major constraints in the country's development of human
resources and promote agricultural developmenat. Selected infrastructure
investments, mostly in transport and power, will also be undertaken to
alleviate serious development constraints. 1n population, a project is being
prepared with Government and donor interest to cofinance components has
already been expressed. For the development of human resources, in addition
to the proposed project in primary education<, projects under preparation
include an agricultural manpower project, engineering education, vocational
education and a secondary education project. For agriculture, the basic
strategy is to assist Nepal maintain overall foodgrain self-sufficiency,
where possible promote exports of agricultural products and encourage afores-
tation efforts. Projects under preparation would extend the assistance
provided so far in building the irrigation infrastructure in the Terai mainly
to increase paddy production and help reduce the food deficits in the Hills,
both through rural development projects which emphasize increasing food
production and through specific Hill food projects.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
19.     The structure of the educational system in Nepal consists of three
distinct levels: primary, secondary and tertiary education. Primary (6 to
13 years of age) consists of five grades. Thfe secondary level is divided
into two components, lower secondary, which consists of grades 6 and 7 and
upper secondary which consists of grades 8 to 10. A School Leaver's
Certificate (SLC) is awarded by examination at the end of 10th grade. The
certificate entitles entry into the tertiary level which provides for one of
three possible qualifications: certificate level, diploma level and a
university degree. The Ministry of Education and Culture is directly respon-
sible for the administration of the primary and secondary levels.
Administration of the tertiary level is the responsibility of the Tribhuvan
University.
20.     Nepal's low literacy level (19%) and acute skilled manpower shortages
reflect the historic neglect of education in the country. At the end of the
Rana regime (1951), which opposed schooling of the general population, less
than one percent of the school age population (only 10,000 children) were in
school. Since then, however, enrollments have expanded rapidly. By 1980,
the end of the Fifth Plan period, about one million children (equivalent to a
gross enrollment ratio of 80%) were enrolled in primary schools; during the
FifEth Plan period (1975-80) enrollments at lower and upper secondary schools
increased 97 percent and 58 percent, respectively, reaching about 340,000 at
lower and about 110,000 at upper secondary levels. About 37,000 students are
now enrolled at tertiary level at Tribhuvan University. Present enrollment
figures (1982) indicate that the demand for education is being sustained.
This significant growth in enrollments was achieved under the New Education



-7-
System Plan (NESP) which the Government adopted in 1971 to help overcome
deficiencies in the education system. Under the NESP, the Government assumed
greater responsibility for financing of education, providing free textbooks
to all primary school children and paying nearly all the teachers' salaries.
21.     The growth in enrollments achieved under the NESP, however, was not
matched by qualitative progress in the education system. In fact, educa-
tional standards have declined. Primary education now suffers from excessive
dropout and repeater rates, with the result that only about 30% of entrants
complete the three year primary cycle and completion of the cycle takes an
average of about 6.5 student years. Furthermore, the three year primary
cycle has been found to be inadequate to achieve permanent literacy and
numeracy, and poorly prepares students for further schooling.  In recognition
of these problems, the primary cycle has recently been extended to five
years. Only about 60 percent of entrants to the secondary cycle complete the
course, and even these students are generally deficient in mathematics,
science, and English. In recent years, the average success rate in the
School Leaving Certificate has been around 30 percent. Significant dis-
parities also exist in access to education opportunities based on sex and
region. In 1979/80, females accounted for only about 27 percent of total
primary enrollments, though this represents significant progress over the
situation in 1974/75 when females represented only about 17 percent of
primary enrollments.
22.     The high growth rate in enrollments has not been matched by com-
parable increases in budget allocations and this has contributed greatly to
low quality of education. Compounding this difficulty is the problem of
communications, which increases costs at district level and inhibits the
dissemination of ideas and educational reform. From experiences gained over
the previous decade the Government has decided to encourage decentralization
of certain responsibilities for sector development including financing,
managing and improving the education system. Many of these responsibilities
hitherto borne by the central government will soon be undertaken by district
offices and village communities. Educational policies will still be promul-
gated centrally and support will be provided in areas where local technical
competence does not exist, or where tasks can be better undertaken at lower
cost centrally (e.g. textbook production). Decentralization of respon-
sibilities to district and village levels will permit greater scrutiny and
economy in expenditures (e.g. teachers who are continually absent can now be
fired by School Management Committees with the approval of the District
Office). The project would support the decentralization concept and
encourage greater community participation in education, as well as strengthen
district and regional offices.
Education Issues
23.     Because of declining quality of primary education, recent increases
in enrollments have meant little in terms of improvement in literacy levels
and skill training. It is estimated that no more than 20-30% of those
children who now attend primary school learn anything of lasting value.
Under such extreme conditions the demand for education, which has been very



- 8-.
great in the recent past, could diminish as disillusionment sets in. Also,
writh possibly only 20-30% of the school leavers retaining any knowledge of
lasting benefit, the cost effectiveness of the education system is poor.
Poorly motivated teachers, inadequate teacher training, the lack of educa-
tional materials and satisfactory school buildings are major causes of poor
educational quality at primary level.
24.     The culture emphasizes absolute recognition of authority; arguing
with superiors and asking them questions is not encouraged.  Therefore,
teachers find it difficult to encourage students to express their curiosity
and child-centered methods of teaching are difficult to introduce.
Traditionally teaching in Nepal involves the transmission of knowledge from
teacher to pupil and learning is considered to mean memorization. In the
absence of enhanced training, adequate reward, recognition or encouragement
teachers are unlikely to try different classroom teaching methods.
25.     The manifestations of an absence of adequate training penetrates the
entire structure of school administration. Thus few superiors understand or
can carry out their designated role and few can gain the respect of teachers
or Kleadmasters. In addition, primary supervisors are expected to cover far
too many schools (40 schools in the Terai, 30 schools elsewhere) when walking
is the principal means of travel. Exacerbating the problem is the inability
of the supervisor's superior, the District Education Officer (DEO), to
provide professional advice, because he is usually an administrator belonging
to the general cadre of civil servants and has no experience or professional
qualifications in education, The impact of the supervision system in the
schools is consequently very slight.
26.     The quality of school management by headmasters is equally poor.
Virtually no headmasters have had any special training in school management
and have little appreciation of their proper role. They provide no guidance
or encouragement to their staff, they do not schedule training, take steps to
get substitute teachers, maintain contact with parents, or seek help from
their School Management Committees (SMCs). While SMCs have a wide respon-
sibility requiring their involvement in all aspects of the school's affairs
including curriculum matters, their impact so far has been slight. After
providing school buildings from community rescurces and getting children
enrolled thereby qualifying the school for one or more government paid
teachers, the SMCs leave the educational aspects of schooling to the
teachers. Consequently potential community effort is not mobilized effec-
tively and lacks a sense of direction on educational issues, although there
is plenty of evidence of parental and conmunity interest.
27.     School buildings and facilities in Nepal are of poor quality lacking
basic requirements such as adequate lighting, furniture, heating, and water.
Raising these low standards for local school facilities will prove extremely
difficult because:  (a) the central government cannot afford to erect or
upgrade about 11,000 primary schools throughout the country; and (b) most
local communities possess limited financial resources and no building design
skills to produce more suitable buildings.



-9-
Administrative Issues
28.     A number of problems beset the Government's policy to decentralize
responsibilities to district and community levels. The strongly hierarchical
civil service system does not encourage delegation of decision making nor the
exercise of individual initiative.. This problem is compounded by the lack of
trained manpower and rapid staff turnover in the education sector.l/
Furthermore, regional and district: office functions are not clearly
delineated and to a considerable extent overlap each other. The planning and
budgeting systems are not adequate to the task of predicting and allocating
resources to meet objectives of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC).
While some of this is caused by deficiencies in the overall Government plan-
ning and budgeting system, much improvement is needed in the Ministry's
process of defining needs and resource requirements, allocating resources and
evaluating results. The Ministry lacks a coordinated system of data collec-
tion and analysis appropriate to the needs of planning and national
development. Data collected are often inaccurate and inappropriately chosen.
Data collection activities are poorly supervised.
The Examination System
29.     A reform of the examination system is long overdue.  The level of
examinations vary from year to year and from subject to subject.
Furthermore, the questions set in, most subjects place heavy emphasis on the
recall of material and relatively little on the application of knowledge to
new situations, or on the use of thinking skills. Examination papers are not
always delivered at the appointecL place on time, leakages and cheating occur,
answer scripts get lost and it takes between 6 and 7 months before the
results are announced. Every year several hundred candidates have their
examination results "withheld" due to missing marks or scripts. The can-
didates which suffer this misfortune find themselves unable to apply for
university entry at the appointed time. The pressures in meeting deadlines
have tended to preoccupy all the staff of the Office of the Controller of
Examinations (OCE) and therefore there has been little professional input
aimed at improving quality aspects of the examination system. The OCE is
understaffed, no research staff exist and few staff have had appropriate
training. Also, the OCE is housed in unsuitable accommodation.
Education Policies
30.     The Government's Sixth Plan (1981-86) attaches considerable impor-
tance to the development of the education sector as part of its strategy to
meet minimum basic needs of the population and to support developments in
other sectors. Greatest priority is attached to primary education, work
1/ Only those civil servants who belong to the small educational cadre
are likely to remain within Ministry of Education and Culture. Other
general cadre civil servants frequently get transferred between
ministries.



-10 -
oriented adult education, and vocationaL and skills training. More
specifically, the Government will concentrate on: (a) improving educational
quality and reducing wastage; (b) impart:ing relevant skills and scientific
knowledge; (c) curricula and textbook revision to make them more relevant to
existing conditions of life as well as national and social values; and (d)
increasing educational opportunities in backward areas and to disadvantaged
groups, such as females. The Government s strategy aimed at achieving these
objectives will be to: (a) contain, within reasonable expansion targets,
enrollments at primary, secondary and particularly tertiary levels, so as to
permit greater emphasis on quality; (b) give priority to new physical
facilities for primary education, non-formal work oriented education, and
vocational and technical education; (c) encourage community involvement for
the expansion of general education; and (d) continue the policy that all
physical facilities (buildings and furniture), excluding technical schools,
shall be provided by the local community.
Sector Lending Strategy
31.     The project supports the Government's Sixth Plan strategy for primary
education and thereby addresses many of the quality issues inherent in the
present education system. While earlier lending in the sector was focused
upon shortages of technical manpower at technical and trade levels (urgently
needed for development of the infrastructure of Nepal) it is now of paramount
importance to create an adequate educational base at primary and secondary
level so as to feed higher levels in the education system. Other donors are
assisting in this process. ADB has financed a project which aims to improve
science education in secondary schools. UNICEF has financed primary school
textbooks for grades I through III and has provided limited support for the
improvement of school buildings (roofs, latrines and water supplies). Also
with assistance from UNDP and UNESCO, UNICEF has pioneered a small primary
project in the Seti zone of Nepal. The present project complements the
activities of these other donors at secondary level (with the reform of the
examination system) and at primary level with the extension of low-cost
quality improvements beyond the Seti zone. Because of its already extensive
experience in the primary sub-sector UNICEF will cofinance the present
project (para 45). The Bank also has developed a comparative advantage, over
the years, in primary education and our intervention in Nepal will benefit
from previous field experience. In supporting primary education due regard
will be paid to improving management of the education system and raising
efficiency generally to reduce the inordinate waste of educational resources
which the country currently experiences.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.     The proposed project was identified and defined in outline by an IDA
identification mission, which visited Nepal during November 1981. The
project request was prepared on behalf of the Government in March 1982 by
UNESCO under the cooperative program. An extensive survey of schools in the
six project districts, agreed at the time of identification, was financed
under an IDA technical assistance credit and conducted by the Institute of



-11-
Education of MOEC during June and July 1982. The project was pre-appraised
by an IDA mission in November 1982 and appraised in July-August 1983. A
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions are
given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from March 16
to March 21, 1984. The Nepalese delegation was headed by Dr. N.N. Singh,
Acting Secretary, Ministry of Education and Culture.
33.     The project would be implemented in only six (out of 75) districts in
Nepal and would adopt an experimental approach to find acceptable solutions
to some of the more serious issues in the sub-sector. The project aims to:
(a)  achieve a low-cost qualitative improvement in primary education; and
(b)  strengthen the administrative and technical capacity in the education
sector.
Quality improvements in primary education would be sought through the inter-
mediate objective of teacher effectiveness in the classroom. This would be
achieved through (a) increased teacher knowledge and motivation, and (b)
external support in the form of better management, instructional materials
and physical facilities. Teachers' knowledge would be improved through the
provision of: (i) integrated in-service teacher training and supportive
supervision; and (ii) teachers' guides, teaching guidelines and other suppor-
tive reading materials. Teacher motivation would be aided by: (i) improved
school management; (ii) greater community interest and support; and (iii) the
development of peer group support within the profession.
34.     A strengthening of the administrative and technical capacity of the
sector would be achieved primarily through: (a) administrative and technical
support services for improving primary and secondary education; and
(b) support for the Government's policy to decentralize administrative and
technical responsibility to district and community levels. It would also be
achieved through extensive support for the OCE with the prime objective of
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of secondary school leaving
examinations. This latter component would help to provide better qualified
entrants to higher education and better qualified manpower for development.
School Clustering and Resource Centers
35.     Central to the design oE the project is the concept of primary school
clustering into groups of 8-12 schools with a Resource Center (RC) school l1
centrally located to provide on-going teacher training and supportive
supervision. The RC would constitute the main delivery venue for teacher
1/ The Resource Center concept is already in use in the Seti project, a
UNICEF/UNDP/UNESCO project in one district in the Fifth Development
Region. After an experimental period in the Seti Zone and the six
project districts, the RC concept will be considered for adoption in the
remaining districts.



-12--
training under the project and for the supply of education materials to the
cluster schools. Each RC school would have its physical plant augmented by
one room which would serve both as a classroom (of larger size than usual)
and as a location for RC activities. RC staff would be augmented by one
additional person, who would receive special training to act as a resource
person (RP). The staff of the RC would: (a) provide in-service training to
all cluster school teachers on a number of special topics; (b) bring the
supervision system close to schools through regular classroom visits of RPs;
(c) assist teachers in making simple instructional materials; and (d) build
community support for schools through work with School Management Committees
(SMCs) and parents. To assist RC staff in their work, a special RC manage-
menit committee with representation from the SMCs for each of the schools in
the proposed cluster would be established. At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that such committees would be established, prior to
inclusion in the project of the school cluster concerned, and assigned such
powers, functions, responsibilities and representation to enable them to
manage their respective RCs. To provide a link between the RCs and DEOs, who
are responsible for primary schools, selected primary school supervisors in
the DEO's office would be designated as Field Coordinators (FCs) and given
special training. Each FC would supervise up to six school clusters.
36.     School buildings and other school facilities would be improved
employing mostly local labor and materials; they would be built to new stand-
ards and designs supplied by the Ministry's School Building Unit (SBU).
SchDol construction would be supervised by overseers and/or tradesmen
employed in the DEO's offices. Limited supplies of school building materials
would be financed centrally under the project, such as roofing materials and
waterpipe. Only materials that are not available locally would be supplied
under the project, thus preserving community responsibility for the provision
and maintenance of schools.
Training
37.     An integrated traiining program to involve primary teachers, super-
visory staff, headmasters, DEOs, school managers, the community and parents
would be introduced at District Offices and at RCs (as appropriate) in the
six project districts so as to: (a) instill greater teaching and management
skills in the primary subsector; and (b) bring about changes of attitude
among the whole range of persons who can, and do, influence the success of
primary education. Thereby, the training program and the development, in
parallel, of educational materials would begin to:
(a) increase the knowledge and skills of classroom teachers by
teaching new content and techniques, and supervising the practice
of these in the classroom;
(b)  increase the effective use of teaching materials in the classroom
through teacher training and supervision, and by ensuring the
availability of textbooks, teachers' guides, guidelines, supple-
mentary reading materials and teaching kits, which would be
financed by the project;



-13-
(c) improve the motivation of teachers to perform well by: (i)
increasing their knowledge and skills; (ii) enhancing the
leadership skills of headmasters and other supervisory personnel;
(iii) improving peer-group relations and professionalism among
teachers; and (iv) building community support for improved
education for children;
(d)  improve the capacity of school managers to support improved
teaching practices and to maintain effectively functioning school
facilities;
(e)  increase the interest of the community in its schools and its
willingness to support the effective functioning of schools by
community action programs to encourage direct contributions to
the improvement of facilities and increase parental demands for
high quality education for their children; and
(f)  increase the management capacity of administrators at the district
and central levels.
38.     The project would finance additional staff salaries (including
central trainers, FCs, RPs and teachers), all training costs (e.g., travel
and subsistence), the production of all teaching and training material, and
teaching and training equipment.
Technical Support Services
39.     While the focus of activity to improve the quality of primary educa-
tion is at district and school level, technical support services would be
required, especially during start-up from the central government. These
would consist of: (a) training oE district staff such as administrators,
school managers, field coordinators and resource persons; (b) the production
and distribution of training materials and equipment for the RCs and schools;
and (c) advisory services for the construction of school buildings. Prime
responsibi'lity for the first two of these technical services would rest with
the Curriculum Textbook and Supervision Development Center (CTSDC) of the
MOEC in Kathmandu. Additional staff would be appointed to two new primary
education units, which would be established within CTSDC: (a) the Primary
Supervision and Training Unit (PSTU) in the Supervision and Training Section
of CTSDC; and (b) the Primary Materials Unit (PMU) in the Curriculum and
Textbook Section. These staff would take prime responsibility for educa-
tional experimentation under the project particularly in relation to the
training program and educational materials development. To ensure their
continuity of service within MOEC, where possible, suitably qualified can-
didates for these positions would be selected from the education cadre of
MOEC (para 28).
40.     The present Engineering Unit in the MOEC would be upgraded to become
a School Building Unit (SBU) and would handle: (a) design changes to the
available standard UNESCO primary school design drawings and construction



-14-
guidelines; (b) the design of DEO and Regional Directorate facilities and the
modifications of central ministry premises; and (c) the supervision of
related construction operations. The project: would finance some refurbishing
of the Ministry of Education and Culture building. CTSDC is housed in part
of an old government building with poor lighting, crowded and inadequate
accommodation and leaking roofs. The project would finance new buildings,
furniture and equipment and the production of all training materials,
textbooks, supplementary reading materials, teaching equipment, teachers'
guides, additional staff salaries, training and travel costs and additional
recurrent costs for the CTSDC.
Strengthening the Ministry and its Agen:ies
41.     The second project objective, to strengthen administrative and tech-
nical capacity of the educational system, would require additional skilled
staff and technical assistance if future development of the sector is to be
successful. The MOEC would need a staff training capability and assistance
in the redefinition and reorganization of its administrative system. These
changes would aim to: (a) refocus staff effort on priority tasks; (b) remove
unnecessary duplication; (c) eliminate unnecessary complexity; and (d)
improve general operational efficiency. Particular functions such as data
collection, planning, management, budgeting, monitoring and evaluation would
be strengthened in the Ministry. Specific management sub-components to be
provided under the proposed project would:
(a)  strengthen the capacity of the Ministry and the National Education
Committee (NEC) to provide well analyzed policy alternatives to
NEC, the highest policy-making body of the Ministry;
(b) provide capacity within the Office of the Secretary of Education
by staffing a Project Implementation UJnit, which would assist the
Secretary in organizing and administering all special educational
projects;
(c) strengthen the Ministry in the development of a more effective
planning, budgeting and human resource management system by
providing appropriate technical assistance to develop: (i) an
administrative plan; (ii) a data collection system; and (iii) an
in-house training capacity; and
(d) strengthen the capacity of the CTSDC to provide support for the
primary education system.
To provide stable district and regional support services for both the project
and non-project activities (e.g. training), IDA would finance new buildings
for four out of the six project districts offices (which are presently in
rented accommodation) and for two of the five regional offices (Pokhara and
Dhankuta). Regional and district offices would be given assistance in the
revision of their organization structures so as to accommodate their new
responsibilities under thie Government's decentralization policy especially in
regard to primary education.



-15-
The Office of the Controller of Examinations (OCE)
42.     Support would be provided for the OCE in order to address issues of
efficiency and quality in the exarnination system especially at secondary
level. To assist the OCE in achieving this objective, technical assistance
including foreign advisers and overseas training at similar examination
centers would be financed by the project. The project would also finance
additional professional staff and a specially designed building with neces-
sary furnishings and equipment for the specialized needs of the OCE including
a library, secure storage areas for about 3 million examination scripts,
secret data processing and printing rooms, training space, hostels,
cafeteria, etc.  Preliminary designs of the building have been prepared as
a condition of negotiations.
Experimentation and Evaluation
43.     Because the issues in this project are more than usually intractable
(paras 23-28) and because of the severe economic and communication con-
straints in Nepal the odds against successful achievement of the project
objectives are more than usually great. For this reason an experimental
approach to achieving the project objectives has been adopted for the primary
education component. Flexibility has been built into the project design, so
that adaptive evolutionary change can be made during implementation. These
changes would be based on the results of continuous monitoring of field
activities, which would produce an accumulation of acquired insights. But
the best solutions to all the problems will not be found in the life of one
project. There will remain some unexplored potential solutions as well as
issues that have proved to be totally intractable during the limited
experimental life of one project. The process of experimentation and evolu-
tion must be viewed as spanning the life of several projects. Only in this
way will the full scope of experiments be explored. It is anticipated that
over a series of such experimental projects a gradual approach to more
optimal solutions will be obtained.
Education Proiect Studies and Evaluation
44.     The project would provide financing for studies to prepare possible
future education projects and to evaluate the project. Provision would be
made for a survey of primary schools in another twenty districts during the
first three years of project implementation. A study on teacher education at
primary and secondary levels would also be undertaken to provide recommenda-
tions on the consolidation, improvement and tailoring of current teaching
programs of the Institute of Education so as to meet future demands for
teachers. Financing would be provided for the preparation of annual evalua-
tion reports, which would analyze field data and make recommendations for
design changes or experimental interventions to be introduced in the primary
education component in subsequent years. Experimental design changes would
be based upon insights gained during earlier years of implementation and may
consist of removing or changing inputs, which are shown to be unsuccessful
and adding new inputs, which it is thought would be beneficial. Evaluation



-16-
reports on the primary education component and similar reports, on the educa-
tion administration component, would be discussed and decisions taken on
suitable adaptive process changes at annual tripartite reviews by the
Government, UNICEF and IDA. Before July 1, 1987, the Government would, based
upon accumulated evaluation results of previous years, draft a comprehensive
proposal for the Improvement of Primary Education and its Administration in
Nepal (Section 3.08 of draft DCA).  This document would constitute the basis
of a subsequent Government proposal for possible IDA assistance to primary
education in the future. Before July 1, 1987, with the assistance of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) consultants and UNICEF, the MOEC would
evaluate the adequacy of regional office structures, staffing and budgets to
provide cost effective implementation of the Ministry's goals and objectives
(Section 3.08 of draft DCA).  After evaluation,, the Ministry would, with the            4
assistance of the PIU consultants, establish more appropriate organizational
structures, staffing and budgets Eor the Regional Headquarters. Similarly,
District Offices would be assisted in the redesign of their organizational
structures to accommodate their new responsibilities in the primary sub-
sector.
Technical Assistance
45.     UNICEF's knowledge of the education sector in Nepal and its previous
experience with the Seti project uniquely equips it to provide essential
educational services in support of the project. As the cofinancing agency it
has agreed to provide technical assistance in support of the project and
provide continuing institutional support on a day-to-day basis from its
Kathmandu office. In particular UNICEF would assist specially appointed
CTSDC staff and the PIU, during the early stages of project implementation,
to refine the training program to suit the perceived needs of each district,
to develop training materials and revise the training content if necessary.
Furthermore, a monitoring and evaluation plan would be developed to monitor
this experimental project throughout all aspects of its implementation and
eventually lead to an improved project design for subsequent financing. By
maintaining a continuing relationship with the Ministry of Education and
Cu,Lture and the CTSDC, UNICEF would assist and strengthen the CTSDC so as to
achieve a major reform in the quality of primary education throughout the
project districts. UNICEF would also assist the PIU in establishing an
eff'ective system of project management. In addition, there would be one half
staff-year of foreign consultancy services for the OCE, as well as local
consultancy services and overseas short-term training financed by IDA. These
services would be used at the discretion of the PIU, according to Bank
guidelines, and would help to strengthen the administrative service at
central and district levels.  The Government would sign a Project Agreement
with UNICEF for educational services amounting to about US$1.7 million. The
provision of evidence that all effectiveness conditions in that Agreement
have been fulfilled would be a condition Df effectiveness of the IDA Credit
(Section 6.01(a) of draft DCA).



-17-
Civil Service Expansion
46.     Because of the need to contain the expansion in civil service
appointments under the severe economic constraints which are being
experienced in Nepal, local employees would be appointed on short term con-
tracts for the life of the project pending the successful outcome of the
project. Subsequently, after it is known which of these appointees need to
be given permanent positions to ensure the continuity and replicability of
the project, more permanent arrangements for their employment would be made.
The Government agreed that it would use its best endeavors to provide per-
manent government positions at adequate levels of seniority for contracted
staff upon successful completion of the project (Section 3.09 of draft DCA).
Pro ject Manazement
47.     The project would be implemented over a period of five years.  To
ensure effective implementation a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
would be formally established in the MOEC and an architect, an examination
specialist from OCE and an educator from CTSDC would be appointed to it as a
condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of draft DCA). Because
of the high priority and importance given by HMG to this comprehensive inter-
vention in primary education, the PIU would operate under the immediate
direction of the Secretary of Education. The PIU has been designed to be the
future administrative unit for all education projects. Also, as a condition
of Credit effectiveness, a Project Implementation Board would be established
(Sections 3.04 and 6.01(b) of draft DCA) and have representation from the
Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Commission (NPC). One of its
main functions would be to help expedite matters (such as civil works
contracting) requiring the clearance of other ministries.
Imp Lementation Requirements
48.     Budget allocations would be made available to the project on an
annual basis, in accordance with the Forecast of Expenditures and
Disbursements. The Government agreed that the necessary funds would be made
available so as to ensure prompt project implementation during the life of
the project.
49.     The CTSDC and OCE buildings are to be constructed on an area of about
10 acres at Sano Thimi near Kathmandu. Working drawings, bidding documents
and specifications for the buildings for the CTSDC and OCE would be furnished
*         to the Association as a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of
draft DCA). The site is already owned by the MOEC. It is the location for
the Janek Educational Materials Center (JEMC) which is a parastatal
organization. Also to be built on this site will be the Science Education
Development Center (SEDEC) to be financed by ADB. Because of the need to
develop the site in an orderly fashion, the Government has prepared, as a
condition of negotiations, a Master Plan for the Sano Thimi site and
topographical surveys for all other major sites. The Government agreed that
it would carry out future developments on the Sano Thimi campus in accordance
with the Master Plan (Section 3.11 of draft DCA). Sites have been acquired



-18-
for the regional offices and some district offices; evidence of acquisition
of all major sites has been provided to the Association as a condition of
negotiations.
Cost Estimates
50.      The total project cost, based upon January 1984 prices, is estimated
at US$16.67 million equivalent, including contingencies and US$0.77 million
in taxes and duties. Foreign exchange co;sts are estimated at US$8.53 million
or about 51% of the total project cost. The proposed IDA credit of US$12.78
million equivalent would finance US$7.33 million in foreign exchange and
US$5.45 million of local costs, or about 80% of the total project costs net
of taxes and duties. UNICEF would Ifinance US$1.7 million equivalent for
technical assistance and other miscellaneous supporting costs. The cost of
individual foreign consultant services is about US$8500 per month and local
consultant services average at under US$600/month, both of which are
reasonable.
51.      To assist the Government in setting up and operating the project
institutions, IDA would finance recurrent incremental expenditures on a
declining basis (para 54) to cover: (a) salaries of additional professional
and support staff for the Ministry of Education and Culture, CTSDC and the
project districts; (b) project trainLing arnd travel costs; (c) local consult-
ancy costs; (d) costs of consumable training materials; and (e) operating
costs during the project period from the estimated date of Credit effective-
ness (July 1984) to June 1989. The incremental recurrent costs (mainly
salaries of additional staff and allowances, consumable training materials
and maintenance of physical facilities) generated by this project when fully
operational would amount to N. Rupees 10 million per annum in 1983 prices
which is equivalent to less than 2% of the total estimated public sector
expenditures for education in fiscal year 1982/83. Given the increasing
importance of human resources in the development process in Nepal the
Government will make additional budget allocations to meet these costs. Site
development, technical assistance and salary costs incurred between January
1984 and the date of Credit signing would amount to US$350,000. At the
Government's request these costs would be financed retroactively through the
project.
Procurement
52.      ICB and LCB for Civil Works. Building Materials and Equipment.
Contracts exceeding US$800,000 equivalent for c:ivil works and US$50,000
equivalent for equipment would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (totalling about US$4.85 million) in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Local manufacturers or contractors would receive a margin
of preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing
imports or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower for building materials
and equipment and a margin of preference of 7.5% in bid evaluation against
competing foreign contractors for civil works construction. Past experience
in Nepal has shown that contracts for civil works (below US$800,000) and
furniture (below US$250,000) do not attract foreign bidders if they cannot be



-19-
consolidated into large packages. Therefore, these contracts, some building
materials, some educational materials and all furniture (totalling about
US$3.69 million) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
following procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association and do not
exclude foreign bidders. Construction would be carried out under one
integrated contract per building by private contractors. Only prequalified
contractors would be allowed to bid for civil works contracts in excess of
US$200,000 under this project. Because a large variety of small items of
building materials and equipment will be needed for school construction and
teaching purposes and because there will be an immediate need for start-up
vehicles, which cannot be met through ICB, the Government will procure some
building materials, equipment and vehicles locally (totalling about US$0.30
million).  Contracts which cannot be grouped into packages for bulk procure-
ment of at least US$50,000 not exceeding in aggregate US$300,000 (equivalent
to about 13% of the estimated total cost of equipment) would be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
53.     Other Procurement Methods including Direct Purchase and Off-the Shelf
Shopping (Local and International) (US$5.89 million). Off-the-shelf items
of building materials, furniture, equipment, and educational/consumable
materials, not exceeding US$30,000 equivalent for each contract and aggregat-
ing to a maximum of US$0.55 million (equivalent to about 11% of the estimated
total cost of building materials, equipment, vehicles and furniture) would
be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price quotations.
Books and instructional printed matter (US$0.71 million) would be purchased
directly from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest possible
prices on the basis of at least three competitive price quotations, if
applicable. Professional services and other consultancy services (US$0.88
million) and technical assistance (US$2.03 million) would generally be
obtained according to Bank Group guidelines; in addition UNICEF would finance
about US$1.7 million (of which about US$1.2 million in foreign exchange costs
and US$0.5 million in local costs) towards the cost of technical assistance;
for these services, UNICEF procedures would be followed. UNICEF could act as
an agent in handling overseas training. There will be only six staff months
of foreign consultants under IDA financing for which direct hire by the
Government would be practiced according to Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
54.     The proposed Credit of US$12.78 million would finance 90% of total
project costs net of customs duties and taxes and US$1.7 million contributed
by UNICEF. The disbursement profile is based upon the average profile of
education projects Bankwide but adjusted to allow for early implementation,
already underway, including civil works, which reached the preliminary design
stage by the date of negotiations. The proceeds of the proposed IDA Credit
would finance the various categories as follows: (i) Civil works--100% of
foreign expenditures, 80% of local expenditures; (ii) Building materials,
equipment, furniture, vehicles, books and journals--100% of foreign
expenditures, 80% of local experiditures (ex-factory), 65% of other local
expenditures (off-the-shelf purchases); (iii) Expert services for technical



-20-
assistance for evaluation and improvement of the examination system, profes-
sional services for architectural design and supervision, and studies--100%
of expenditures; (iv) Technical assistance for other components of the
proiect--100% of local expenditures; (v) Educational materials (including
consumable materials)--80% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), off-the-
shelf purchases--65% of local expenditures; and (vi) incremental staff
salaries and allowances, training costs, and operating costs--on a declining
basis (FY 84/85 - 100%; FY 85/86 - 100%; FY 86/87 - 85%; FY 87/88 - 20%; FY
88/89   0%) but averaging at 50% over five years.
Documentation of Expenditures, Accounts aLnd Audits
55.     With the exception of recurrent costs [para 54 (vi)], all withdrawal
applications for contracts equal to, or in excess of US$10,000 will be sup-
ported by full documentation. Withdrawals to meet recurrent costs and for
contracts below US$10,000 in value would be made against statements of expen-
diture (SOE) certified by the Project Director. Documentation in support of
SOEs would not be submitted to the Association but would be retained by the
PIU for review by IDA's supervision missions. In addition, this documenta-
tion would be subject to independent auditors reports which would be sub-
mitted no more than nine months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year
in which the expenditures covered by the SOEs were paid (Section 4.01 of
draft DCA). To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications under SOEs
would be aggregated in amounts equivalent to US$50,000 or more (and not less
than US$20,000) prior to submission to IDA for reimbursement.
56.     Project accounts would be recorded in accordance with sound account-
ing practices. The Goverrment agreed that: (a) accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) certified copies of the audited
accounts and financial statements, for each fiscal year, together with the
auditors' report would be furnished to the Association as soon as available,
but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Section
4.01 of draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
57.     Because the project objectives and scope are narrowly focused, the
projject's probability of success is increased and evaluation of its direct
short-term benefits is also simplified. Successful evaluation of the project
would indicate ways of achieving more cost-effective project designs for the
future. The possible benefits of this first project in the primary sub-
sector, therefore, must be viewed over the long-term when a second or even
third Droject is nearing its completion. Over the long-term, through
improved teacher performance, school management, technical backup support,
and administration at the Ministry level a gradual quality improvement would
be achieved at relatively low cost. This in turn would raise literacy
levels, which would facilitate agricultural extension work and improve farm
productivity. Similarly improved primary education would contribute to
improvements in health and hygiene, all of which are necessary for long-term
national development.  In aiddition, the project, and subsequent primary



-21-
projects, would accelerate the Government's decentralization policy in educa-
tion by creating a greater awareness and self-dependence at district and
village level and by strengthening district and regional office
responsibilities. An equally important long-term benefit would be to create
adequately qualified entrants to secondary schools and this quality improve-
ment would filter upward to higher education. A reform of the examination
system would serve to reinforce this benefit particularly at secondary level,
thereby enabling qualified manpower to be trained in sufficient numbers to
meet the demands of a developing society.
58.     The project is spread over six districts with poor communications,
the absorptive capacity of the Ministry is limited and a weak civil service
administration exists throughout Nepal. While the most accessible districts
have been selected for the project and strengthening the Ministry is one of
the project objectives, the risks due to these limitations cannot be entirely
removed. They will be reduced by: simplifying the delivery system for
inservice teacher training and supervision; by employing UNICEF throughout as
the anchor institution for technical assistance; by introducing project
management procedures which will institutionalize change in key divisions of
the Ministry; and by the appointment of well qualified and motivated project
staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
60.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
61.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 5, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-22-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1
T A B L E 3A
NEPAL                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                         (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
494Q/b  1970/b  RECENT  lb             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
L960-        1970-  ESTIMATE-             ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                   140.8        140.8        140.6
AGRICULTURAL                             35.3         36.8         41.2
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        60.0         80.0         150.                276.7                       1028.6
ENERGY CONSUFPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            3.0         15.0         13.0                398.4                        792.8
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    9447.0          11355.0      15029.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)             3.1          4.9          6.4                  21.5                        32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                   24.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     73.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                           67.1          80.6        104.0                161.7                        26U.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND               267.4         308.6        355.7                363.1                       1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                             39.1          42.0         42.4                 36.6                         39.4
15-64 YRS                             57.4          55.0         54.6                 59.2                         57.2
65 AND ABOVE                           3,5           3.0          3.0                  4.2                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                   1.3          1.8          .-5/c                1.9                          2.3
URBAN                                  4.4           6.3          5.0                  4.0                          3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             43.6         45.5         43.6                 29.3                         31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             26.5         23.7         19.8                 10.9                          9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.7          3.0          3.1                  2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUV)                ..         37.4        146.0/d
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..          0.71f        4.3Ie5f             48.1                         46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          106.0         101.0         82.0                111.4                        125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          94.0          94.0         86.0                 98.1                        114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              51.0          51.0         45.0                 56.7                         57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             9.0           9.0          8.0/e               13.9                         14.1
ClilLD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE             32.6         27.8         22.5                 12.2                          7.6
HEALTi
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            37.6         40.5         44.6                 59.6                         60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          194.5         172.5        147.7                 96.6                         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..          2.0          8.0/j               32.9                         37.1
URBAN                                 47.7          53.0         81.07j               70.8                         54.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..          5.07j               22.2                         26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          1.0          1.0/h               18.1                         41.4
URBAN                                    *-         14.0         14.07T               72.7                         47.5
RURAL                                    ..           .,            ..                 4.7                         33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             73800.0       51380.0/i   30060.0/e?             3506.0                       7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                    ..      70530.07T   33420.oT;              4797.9                       2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               8290.0        6940.0       6390.0               1100.6                       1047.2
URBAN                                290.0         390.0        450.0                298.4                        651.1
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..               5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..           ..            ..                  ..                         27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..          5.5
URBAN                                   5.4           ..
RURAL                                    * **
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                  2.0            ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                 30.2            ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..
------.._---------------------------------------------------------------__----__---------------------------------------



-23-
ANNEX I
Page 2
T A B L E 3A
NEPAL                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/        1970- ESTIMATE/k            ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY;   TOTAL                      10.0         26.0         91.0                 96.1                       101.2
MALE                      19.0         43.0        126.0                107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                     1.0          8.0         53.0                 82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       6.0         10.0         21.0                 30.2                        44.9
MALE                      11.0         16.0         33.0                 37.3                        50.0
FEMALE                     2.0          3.0          9.0                 22.2                        44.6
VOCATIODiAL (X OF SECONDARY)             0.2          5.8          6.8/e                2.3                        18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               33.0         22.0         38.0                 34.4                        32.7
lb                          SECONDARY                             32.0           ..          31.0                18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  8.8         14.3         19.0                 53.5                        72.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.1          0.4           .,                  1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TLOUSAhD POP             3.0/j        4.6         20.5                 96.3                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..           ..                  9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                 0.7          2.4          7.3/2               16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..           ..                  3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)             4875.0       5537.0       7140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      40.5         39.2         39.0                33.3                         33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 95.0         94.0         93.0                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     2.0          2.0          2.0                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.6         48.8         47.5                 42.5                        38.6
MALE                                  61.5         58.8         57.6                 54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                                41.8         38.6         37.3                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9          1.0                  1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT UF PRIVATE LN;COME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         35.3/g               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..         59.27j               43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..          4.6/g                6.9                         6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..         12.67                17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         95.0               133.9                        194.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..         45.0               111.6                        155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..         41.0                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         55.0/e              43.8                         24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         61.07;               51.7                        41.1
N0OT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N  T E S
la  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Host Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Estimated annual growth rate for 1972-79 is 2.6%; /d 1978; /e 1977; /f Government program only; /g 1976; /h 1975;
/i. Personnel in government services only; /j 1963.
May 1983



-24-                                                                         AN~NEX I
Page 13
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL IfNIlOATOsS
Ncoot'  Alhoy   todaaar   rur  Sit  core "getet"elly...            jugdth    ot  uhoeto  anddreiable, 15sol  also be notd ohms1 they may not be tot-rotlooaly
dd-st-toodos   aud        th    In ic-a  ac-do, art ah-r-aert              ...crilr. -uits dlff-roce  ho--.tasen      i
The slo rots ~tupo   at :) tha.m.c.  nt..  gcc.   ofls(btt           2rredC) a l. asry gro-p cith  -cosh-t hLgrer -o-sge  cna-m  tha    .sounty grop of the
caEd (chru....d 000.)Pyalc   erpyic ian - PopulaltIo  dicided hy nuebor of psscslclng
fca       oalsro-ra   rylst   ord are  aod ilood eaes  16,phmceo   u                                                        .If''o a1 ordaca1 eaolh        stacraa.lal
1S7T urd 1980 dcsI,                                                                                ftpalastia  poe N.,"apemn-paue,n   diaided bpyubro  petaa
it, --a, p       n_slos an   tti    rdadn  o   o  i   oc;1950,                                   umlg aoltre
1970 co  1980 d-fo.                                                                                -oplaIo  s    osItal Ne"I          oa,uba.adrrl-reoesstrO
"Ih,a, and ecro.l)  bode  hy1 she   -2espeacn  ouMber of hospifa   beds
Ih   lcCPTo0)  - ONr Per cayrca aslae   a   usr  crs5pls,aa lala  In pRblla en   rcs  gord                                                                  speolesee1dlhospl tal a-d
cct.ordh   ea   onsIos nda -h-rl-   boO  Aslls (1979-h   hel);rhhlllftaso    eer.    optl   r _salhene   er                                                                 _enl  staffed
ho  ,   o  191Ot.by as Ie..t ar hoyslae-   E-lblisoe-ts p-iodlig prIncI pally ouaodoll
case are oat  Inlued    Rso  na-lost.j, hossr, lacdo h.sIthen
t-ncOh CtoONLrPTIOS PRo colFlTA -   -1oa  apaacrnuylno_cnsoa                                               ela   enrsntpoeeaysald by aIPI,,loIa  lb,, bye, eedias
rrtnarerrry  Icul or  Ilglto,   eorolot,  etcro  oatead rdra-,ocolss                 aslasat , orso,  ldele, en,) slob ofer s-patleos  saomodaaRI e_
b96l, 1070, ucd  9016  luau,                                                                           ura   aplaelcld   gm  rnle/genrll                       sla        o   ae
P0PUI'LAICh  dOl     r   TTbISSe                                                                                  le   o I_pl5tsar  Inc 'lludd       yi sodas Ottl.9
Tona   PccurthI- ha   slhuc-Ido   - As of Jotly 1; 1960, 1970, -ad 1991                                            Ifsos  a   oola   e    - Tasl ruher- ofsdalst.lootaaIf'dlsoh-gsl
aco.                                                                    feoo bomplnels~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I dtalded by Ohe ro- r  fbes
crcaren   doftoocone  of usherur-- raY of ou  c-par-illsy of dstu                               HOUhSIN
ocrnorlot; 1960, 1900, -cd 19(1 dos.                                                         crrarSeeoIHoeb                       I           .nr.n.prhoshol)"" cl   rbn   0   us
psopolt ctcn Oryour 0071 - Ouroos  populo.h .. prjor 5ior  ua  "Illh or198                ead tress malt insle.  A boader or Illdgo  oap as o   oat b  seoloded JIn
ocal  nptatc    y aosordsotai  crels, --rllty  -ad f-rlllsol                                       she hoomohold dor-i stseloa   purposes
r_  Pr-eco.  arse _r_(s  ooolry  -rur   -ceyle of throc                                     corsonsarfyssn  po  rosso                      ,  eboa, end sorelatg    -ubes
sst.    apuuats  for for ti toy rusalso1 boos hOrr bomb                                           __,,ouplsd furls.
aoctr -allro  ic far-oly actor log r. 000000  sc-l ard post fa-ily                          u.ncesoot  fl-scslclat ory     o  of d-ellIaas  - socl, orhac  ea d  -osl 
plcrolog yarytrunco .  710cc cttsno t a chscoshgc    to   hes  clot                  EI.tonsho-s  dalhlngs ohsh ehacolchy  o i            t  quersersos          ....
tcnttrsctcotfnnrcolloo --farstlRorrtfopc-             sttp-oes.ofoal   chu,ndurldo                                               tlraos Healel..
cr0-at     f 0soe't0 ..       r 0  oot-I Lto f ha___ oje Thodraa her- _roosr  sIfool-ea                              - poul  r h.  lisrsly  Inlude R hcd_   e  see  b-.ltV
0010, u f fto  ynutohlcmct  tos  1000,  Ir rho roeo  dc  e   f_er   u  a josd  o dlp drselo sna uf1,1-                                       pslsdsryehd-s lot; far
farhollot roc cc  coaconnl locl                                          oocsrlesc.h   slcr    ed _cn to enum to el.y e......10                  flO05
,o_tcotocor -    ou    cct    nho       o  yaaaItorllsnh..aa                                          sInc       soc hyoliu set hooosal      n  hr- - o..  Il.f  a  sn-od sge-. -
cccoot-t  ol  bso-chod.                                                                      Senooeorschol   hte.a        sal  end  fel- Cop-nd  -sab-n;eosId,r,
Otcc<05 lot Or talcy                                                           sda~~~~~~~.tes-o-seit-ss    leas-t four pears of  ppro-d peeey  St. losrolca;
Fo as h. - 'id-oaspnu- -n   oR-   --ar   il-ose  (100 hecar-o  of                                  PrIcidee genera, nca"Ia,ornas,   trIh                    In "trnloal a
stout 000     960, 17,T  and  98C d_ha                                                               pol psoooally of 12 so 17  Ier   f sgel;osepnncouaee
ora0   to  orroot  cc,  and  coyutotuoo~~~~~~~~~~b-utrgrttcrladgooeolyoa-luded.
ony  1910, 19'0 t-O   99HtoOt  ltlorlles1hreO   fscoey      nalsll luls
Po  lclr'   05.cr  'aran'    mt lrs  1-I  yasl,codIng-od -d5-laclud rednca, Inutal ornhrpuss   15oeaeldea-
-t , 1-rt lc 096   IT 7 and 1991 do~ o                                                            Pyl'-reher stI    polser,~  aad secodary  - T-sa  ssdetI caoledIs
Icultcr-occ cac-1 (Ecst,     I   oco -'oI         u Iaroth sao f socI old-                         yoloe.   an  moanay  lanls dlolded by roabe-  of n-ath-t  In, c   coo
yo-s ynya-rIt  190 -60,  ~96c0    on  17-8                                                            opondlg 1-snl.
P2p     --r ro Roa-asc--ct  --rbu-dcnIogrtsshsaseofur,bhaMU Iduhlle-syae  (ser-enslI,lsera                                                      dos(ahletIIre-dstdoriselos
pcy la  or  los 19561,193, an1901.aPor-ra-g  of sslaul   osaIaae  15 peers R                                                                                     nr
<cOo  ~~  Onto yc0n                 tousho  por ott-,dr of mcd-y-a                          rasoe'Er   so   rasc    calsol-Pmegr noncoplo   ao
r,poocuo          91, 060 7'  crd 1(6'I dot                                                                 - stlog less o~horeght peron; eouos lce     ere   n
r~~,r~~d~~,ooaslct00-roscsag-Iposflcsatl  Roclners (par th-osad yPcPlaatia(- Alt aypo- ofoseo  fo -rdIo
-      r--grc-           o  n      onua  urdlog ir 1961', t1970, and                             broad,:saintsnoonra  pblI  pr  bo-d of  paplastIan; rocladesa
199'                                                                1 Iseosed  sacs ness Issouaslesri   und 11In:ees,he,,eorelo If eadlo.
F-i0cr  orto-;cctc              -rutsootclMtlubo-  ad c-poor                                           cessta   iaelEfet; dahaforre--n  frar  aecan  bIOprsblss,lno    nt
0o-asrt       oo      co   ro   u   otc   a   otbol  ytnl-n1                                         rotss e  uo.Ibd II. Ineaelag
TVseecesLearhaadomaOo                  TV' ....eilIe.s foe bsaaooss 5 to
'is-aapor Clrctb,osto   ye  thousand  Ioo tlaolnl   1- trs   ha storag
Fau cro ~    1i                                                                                             aroaurC~ ly   ee  lOera5ta p075-', dofioed tsapol,                            lo
ui cnt-   urof         rot1dtdtnccstts.    rtoccctrcloboant-d adeallolf--pearItessfaunidsesed
£oOur       orcl-u   osur bat t,~          oc-ditiot coco  primary 8000  ye.g.                     CSoen  fArr-a  As-encc  per.p~ EaIt          Y..e ho -gosd  o  nha  -uobr of
_a ~hoc,  ar   dodllocrIotaIsuoos   eg.ok-t  aold durlog sho Year, iInluding odoa-lor  so drla-in dilo..nas and
cufn   o'occoa'c-         .adsogoPe IrduocuorIffsuch co-nay 15                               ochille unts.
huod  c rclrolutr-tlsosooc ripcalu   ca   1961-h5, 1970, ond 1981
rto tuPit   oput   ub000lotn  o   ousnoo   - C-op-sd from                                            T         IeT ,So  Por-  (--aads) - Eonnamioally OOo   esm     old                re
en-gy oquc-lo-  of nrfood supplIes aallhlt In . atocr  pro spuhs par                                 forces aadi uomplored bun sooludiog bhse-         e   aoems ea.   otso
dcr.  hollartlo-b   oc,ploot creyri- dceo                                                                                                                    -tfric.In.mooslo  aol  Ioo  alae.~   lllt   loslnconls rono
osoc   aocug   I oook   bar   py Orasocud  octoa I   fod   ed,                              opsbe  169, 170 aa             981 dta
qoco_s cu   o   ro   so sr.g ,ardII_ne  In dehabun Ion.                                       Pnam(ecnb - Pmle labor f....e .. p                         Iccog f  -os1 leb-rfre
a-oracouroo at co-re  ry Out bud 00 physilolgloal a-de for coroa                              AsriIculsus  (yeart-  5  - labor foes  so, feeog, f-reesy, hu.tIng  od
orbt-rod too~loh trunodacc    noni       eo    eprsas   oy  egh                                    flehlngae~P         "Ieoag   If fal Ilabo  force; 1960, 1971 sad 1991dea
so -rocohod 1linol  26-0,1172 enO  1(82 dor.                                                          aodeleor iiloy, asse  sod Resa  pa Iesg    f s-se  labsr Earn; 1960,
Pr rcalo   -uyl  cf yoar Odospe   a) -y  telo  c--sn   of  -s  ca.pIta190n  1981 data,
10950rostfc  ul  uon 000otoblscd  y  OIcrerle  ornlnoo                      oalis  rage  ar   opted as. totl, al, and feal  laorfsss
oloaooo   0   oe  o  Ott-' proonlc Rs oar and 21 5roao  sloal sod                             nr_etages of  -oa1, mele sod fema I le  yIP"t", o  all1 Ygeepes l;
pot se poosln 00 001cc 10 gams ohotlf h b olalproolo,  Tesa                                 11;01, 1971, saa 1991 de.-   Tbeh      r  basod an1W5ps  aptIt   ao
TIrd uorlt Otto   un;IC-f,17   r   90d  o                                                          somalpoecnO RtIn  -  otla of popalstiloromder If sod 61 amd Ism  so
Fo   oos   nrni  otply fm0  rtolcd polas  ?- rsel  s-pply of food'                               efhr o-n1 laborfce
derlfod  from  o--eul  and pul-  Or gram   lro  day; 1911-tb, 1,970 and 18077
dos-                                                                                             INCEOMN  lISTIOlIlT1Ic
10110  0000 10  Tcnr 00001000 oootu-    ( -co-at d-oto  par tccusand In                     Pacesae  f  r   s  InaInee (bash 10 sah aad kird) - feselnod ly eldest 
ago gs'c1-0 year', too tOlrro  tr tIo  00royfcrosdnlpugperceat , rlhbeot 20 p-saenn, poor-es  20 pe-ert , sad Pooes                                                  eots of
ourlndoo  do,lc-l fr-c lofc  ablos; 1960, 1971 u-d 1901 dst.-                                   hca-ho1ds
E.                                    A--gl  -bl, -g -raEaV!lig r-f i5
''l'7 r -p haooolocI ar y-noceuoo    f  e                       of lIfe  esooclodIbfo losdIng  os hlmsasta ar  nosy epp-aima-  nesrem  ef p-etly le-el, am
asbso .80   970 und I'81 uat.shadbasne presd oseh onsid-al le  aslt
jae  i of o Po patauco. .Itto bsrnbs; 1960, 1d70  -ad 1991 daa.Oslct oea    tts   om h....a n, ihocomo                                                     Iso llbab   mHlcoolh
'oeso  Safe Ocs   prooo  outtuo-cc L,obo, _ocd-ruso  -n silelly cdsq-ah   dIes plusesssa  no-odrqclsom....s. mo
N-ho  ofpul   Los, ro,  n   ud of-'rrsan                           .....oseaacsf                     affordable.
toco  o-yl   tolor   oroa   orcootaau  o-_ce_d ht                                                 hnaed Relastc- Ponsety Imans  -eas  (US! yes cal-it   - orba  and ro-1 
,occrcn IrteO  oOor sct asthat fine prnhectad bosahol-a  eros,otuRal. oatl.                                     poneroy ssm    ee  gIoethr           f aners9   Per apsa
e _toYIolo(  ec Pscr--gss of lbs,i -rrlp-cli-  apoplsolona   Or or                                personal.-om   of ohen-assy.  Orb-n 1-1a is de-l-d  fraathtra-sl
urbsc o-s  -, puhl t  fturO.alor osanp-s  1ocosd 005 'soe soa  101 setr-len    ales adi-cn..nI fos high., oaet of ljing  It arbsoaItas.
h   I,  - r racr..ot  ..ot sonbl   co      td   ml   thI  ohe hou-oifeor                         am.rra -.  PIodo  of popalatina  (arb.m  and rura) aho r.            'Ia  n
-        Icrofr l  Isutul, orbon, and strol  se-d byaoes
naYutls c         -erot-ro - ord d Osyos.   os f1h oroihta.  treaoes .    , of                                                              E.onamia an  Solia1 D-s  Dirlaion
htnocoosanuao-u-t- by c- -r-lcsos -oasaorc~heum-  If pit                                                                              El_oaoooelmsadrejs                  bprmn
aonlltt~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 7rrluas,ay183



-25-                           ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - NEPAL
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981:  US$150
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981182                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH, 1970-1981 8/
%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.    _
GDP at Market Prices                  2,514       100.0                                   2.1
Gross Domestic Investment               389        15.5
Gross Domestic Saving                   216         3.6
Current Account Balance (exc.
official grants)                      -120       -4.8
Exports of Goods, NFS                   277        11.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                   450        17.9
OUTPUT , LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/80
Value Added
Value Added              Labor Force b/           Per Worker
US$ Mln.    _%_              Mln.       x                US$
Agriculture                           1,065         57             6.9       93                155
Industry c/                             251         14             0.1       2               1,696
Services                                543         29             0.4        5              1.468
Total/Average                   1,859        100             7.4      100                251
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
X of GDP
1979/80       1980/81       1L981/82      1982/83       1982/83
Current Receipts                        1,853         2,403         2,866         3,001           8.3
Regular Expenditures                    1.055         1.264         1.589         2,025           5.6
Current Surplus                           798         1,139         1,277           976           2.7
Development Expenditure                 2,309         2,731         4,034         4,808          13.2
External Assistance (Net)               1,318         1,374         1,953         2,607           7.8
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1979          1980          1981          1982          1983
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                                   4,512         5,285         6,308         7,459          8,780
Bank Credit to Government                               1,176         1,362         1,357         2,132          3,185
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                         436           501           668           618            981
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           1,976         2,547         3,231         3,363          3,717
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                        20.3          22.6          21.7          22.9           24.2
General Price Index (1974/75 = 100)                     116.6         125.5         148.0         159.7          180.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                                      10.0           7.6          17.9            7.9          13.0
Bank Credit to Government                                21.8          15.8          -0.4          57.1           49.4
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                        24.3          14.9          33.3          -7.5           58.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            24.3          28.9          26.9           4.1           10.5
Note: All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
|j World Development Report 1983.
b/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Includes mining, manufacturing, construction and utilities.
.. not available



-26-
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1981/82 k/
us$ Mlp.      x
1980/81    1981/82      1982/83  it/
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. c/                       134.4       115.4        67.3              Agricultural products                    92.0       80.0
Imports, f.o.b. cj                       352.6       363.6        408.3             Manufactures                             23.0       20.0
Trade Balance                     -218.2      -248.2       -341.0                  Total                               115.0      100.0
Services, net                             75.4        87.3        78.1
of which:  Tourism                      64.5        51.4        61.4              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1982                              v
US$ Mn.
Transfers, net                            46.4        40.5         37.6
of which:  Private Remit.               38.9        34.5          ..              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                296.6
Indian Excise Refund        4.7          3.1         2.5              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 _
Current Account Balance            -96.4      -120.4      -225.3               Total Outstanding & Disbursed               296.6
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                           71.7        89.3       102.5
Official Capital, net                     52.8        59.3        72.1
Private Capital, net                     -12.0        10.8        14.6              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1982/83 !]               x
Chanae in Reserves                 -16.1       -39.0         36.1              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                  7.0
(- - Increase)
Gross Official Reserves (mid-July)   195.8           232.6       159.7              IBRD/IDA LENDING, September 30. 1983 (Millions US$)
US$ Mln.
IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                    -        175.1
Undisbursed                                -        194.4
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed             -        369.5
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975         From March 20, 1978           From September 19, 1981          From December 17, 1982
ThSoub October 1967          to   rch 20  1978           ,Se              1981       to December 16  182                $          
US$NR -MR                                   12.11)     U 1.O NRB 12.00               NS$.0      Rs 13.2              U~.0NRs  14.3
NR 1.00 - US$  0.095        NR 1.00 - US$ 0.08         NR 1.00   US$ 0.083           NR 1.00 - US$ 0.076             NR 1.00 - US$ 0.070
a/ Estimate
4   Customs basis.
cl/ Payments basis.
J   Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Services,
not applicable
not ivailable
South Asia Programs Department
October 1983



ANNEX II
Page 1
-27--
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.  STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of September 30. 1983) I/ /a
US$ million
(net of cancellations)
No.    Year       Borrower              Purpose                      IDA    Undisbursed
Eight credits fully disbursed                                       71.3
470   1974   Kingdom of Nepal  Water Supply and Sewerage           11.8       1.3
617   1976   Kingdom of Nepal  Rural Development                    8.0       1.6
659   1976   Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Assistance                3.0        0.1
704   1977   Kingdom of Nepal  Second Water Supply & Sewerage   8.0           2.5
705   1977   Kingdom of Nepal  Industrial Dev. Corporation         4.0        0.8
730   1977   Kingdom of Nepal  Second Highway                     17.0        2.7
772   1978   Kingdom of Nepal  Technical Education                  5.7       3.0
799   1978   Kingdom of Nepal  Telecommunications III             14.5        7.6
812   1978   Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Sunsari-Morang)        30.0       18.2
856   1978   Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Narayani Zone)         14.0        8.1
939   1979   Kingdom of Nepal  Second Rural Development           11.0       10.0
1008   1980   Kingdom of Nepal  Community Forestry                 17.0       15.8
1055   1980   Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Mahakali)              16.0       14.6
1059   1980   Kingdom of Nepal  Tlhird Water Supply & Sewerage   27.0         17.5
1062/c 1980   Kingdom of Nepal  Grain Storage                       6.2        4.6
1093/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation (Babai)                  3.5        0.6
1100/c 1981   Kingdom of Nepal  Agricultural Extension & Res.   17.5           8.8
1101kc 1981   Kingdom of Nepal  Hill Food Production                 8.0       5.2
1191/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal  Cottage & Small Industries          6.5        5.5
1198/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal  Second Education                   14.3       13.1
1260/c 1982   Kingdom of Nepal  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  9.2           7.5
1316/c 1983   Kingdom of Nepal  Irrigation VII-Bhairawa-Lumbini 16.0          15.3
1339/c 1983   Kingdom of Nepal  Cash Crop Development Project    6.0           6.0
1379/c 1983   Kingdom of Nepal  Second Technical Assistance
Project                         6.0        6.0
1400/c Id     Kingdom of Nepal  Second Forestry Project             18.0      18.0
Total,                                               369.5     194.4
of which has been repaid                             0.2
Total now outstanding /b                             369.3
Total now held by IDA                                369.3
Total Undisbursed                                              194.4
/a  No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in U.S. dollar
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in President Reports, and
Disbursed amounts shown in US dollar equivalent at the rate of exchange
for the SDR on September 30, 1983.
/d Not yet effective.
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA projects in execution, which is updated twice
yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and
October 31.



ANNEX II
-28-                             Page 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of September 30, 1983)
Amount ($ millions)
Year           Obligor               Type of Business   Loan        Equity       Total
1975   Soaltee Hotel (Pvt) Ltd.   Hotel                     2.7        0.4        3.1
1982   Nepal Orind Magnesite         Mine and process    6.2            -         6.2
(Private) Limited          magnesite ore         8.9         0.4        9.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                   8.5        0.4        8.9



ANNEX III
Page 1
-29-
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to Prepare the Project
one year
(b) The Agency which has Prepared the project
Ministry of Education and Culture with the assistance of
UNESCO, the Insti.tute of Education and various independent
consultants
(c) Date of First Presentation to Bank Group
May 1982
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission
July 6, 1983
(e) Date of Completion of Negotiations
March 1984
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness
July 1984
Section II      Special IDA Implementation Action
None



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III    Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  Provide evidence to the Association that all conditions
of effectiveness of the UNICEF Project Agreement have
been fulfilled (para 45).
(b)  Establishment of the Project Implementation Board (para 47).
(c)  Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit and the
appointment of additional. staff of this Unit
(para 47).
(d)  Furnish to the Association the working drawings, bidding
documents and specifications for the buildings for the
CTSDC and OCE (para 49).
Other Conditions
(a) Prepare by July 1, 1987 a draft comprehensive plan
for the Improvement of Primary Education and its
Administration in Nepal and thereafter seek to
implement such plan in a suitable manner (para 44).
(b) By July 1, 1987, with the assistance of consultants
and UNICEF: (i) evaluate the adequacy of the
organizational structures of regional and district
offices, staffing and budgets to provide cost effective
implementation of the Ministry's policy to decentralize
its education system; (ii) furnish to the Association,
for its review and comments, the results and recommenda-
tions of such evaluation; and (iii) thereafter, taking
into account the Association's comments, implement such
recommendations (para 44).
(c) Carry out future development of the Sano Thimi Campus
to conform to the approved Master Plan (para 49).



IBRD 17639R
s ro                                                               80 rdi                                                                                                                                   i o-                                                                     MAARC H  19 84
, N \ >  r                      ->                     c    H    I    N    A                                                                                                     NEPAL
rJuRcHuv                                OIM L I A                                                                                                                         PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                   3
sJDARCHULA  %t                            H1                      >
- _    '-   >  ,-          !              /       N                                                                                                             Kaoski   Project districts
B AJH-ANo                                                                                                                                                                                 Project sites
'RAJURA N3  <    8  B A J H A N G e    t-     ,   (          . +_,                                                                                                   Selected highways
A B A DI                                                                                               T A                                                                                             Rivers
-.)    National captal
K>          ®tdn,vo. "4   -4  I0                                                                                                                                                                ® r    S  \.  0  Regional headquarters
CuLDHURA                                                           J  M L A      i                /             k              r                                                                        0      Selected towns
r'~~~~;   ~~~1                                CAT I                                       cOLPA 
D O T I  -'  A -   H HAM     KALI KOT                        _           D   L P A                                                                                                 -  --  D5strict boundares
I         /.t-           -                             !'                                                                                                                       Zonal boundaries
sArle-HANpuROl  <   >;               ;AJAKOT    ,r-/    \                                 i   MUNIAt4C'        /                                                                     Regional boundaries
L-K WAAiA I                                   Aq   I LAsEc-K-HInernationalf boundaries
I |  A  I A L I T .     z,lP4k
p                                                                _ /)               Vrkr         o t u:          .!        ~ ~~ ? t    \ - -   A it  N A N    r
L,  -   B A R D I YSL N'                                                                                                                       /
T S AtOiA      - 'AvAN   I   R O L P A                                                                    N      .)   A
- z t           l    A  A        P      7         »Bvu          J      FArBAT)      Pc/tar yi           dcA ° r       /    -._ JT    '<
-25'                                                                     ¾               -  -     PsU    AN   '                -3-1
V E                                   GU L ~' M  Y.,11i 
_zov                                                                                              NCVOAKOt  di7;  ' 2 ~                    r Y' u Cp / Ar G  A
\ ,.                             4; Z R,,HAKHANCHI                                                               iJAnoT
N _.--N -                                                                                                   S5,  C  OATM'      c      XA H,/ ,A,H/ Dtoj    ANU/
KAN  tA         /h,h^ NJtC TAWANAA    Z'  Roinvo  f 'o   KothasEHndv  ;oOoi5td,t                            >                 -  
40                           It  sal                                                        /1 >;                       '        3 ru -                        )Li                   TAPCJJt' C BHOJPUh    -   yT|
L.  /        Rhorotoowo      'W     ICH  TAWAN                     HAnodoHH-P
Lid .,]                                                 I          N           D          I          A                         Lf,,g9  nd AuR A                                           JLtAHA\ s i ,L                                         22 A  4  A
hLOCMETERS04    20    40    AC    80    tOo    120    i40   lA0G2    j   fz                                                                                                                           j    DllAtlUSHA1      %>         I      /                   UHSRIA
/ tooo'o   II  /PANE>    oo
MILES 0         20          44         AC          dO         100                                                                                                                                _       r   S.        s.                t                hAC hANC. r   Jfla 7a A
nho -vp hIo lIen prparlvd b, Thv Wood OauO o siatt oovius,vOy uor tvhonv. r .
toe vei   qn soy o voc usout duo duo vovol 000 ust 3ev Wo-rld o-k Iod tho k trvoo.o dl
Kivuev   u      Coouvord't-v T he    iou u e i-,uo  500 00 thOO-e' ,  thon uhmao out
oOAo 'I tho parl Id Tl- WovIe Povk Iod tho Aiuturb- Fsoatuu Poe Cuoporont- -0y ,udgme-
.010 6lo oglrate  oi 10 Ioo,to '   any ondoroemei y  r  ovvveioo cod such ruousr,ou
3d'                                                                    Fto                                                                     Ato                                                                      Po



1



