Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4785-NEP
NEPAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
March 27, 1984
FILE COP
South Asia Projects Departmett
Education and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
N.Rupee 14.9 = US$1
FISCAL YEAR
1984/85
SCHOOL YEAR   Jan - Dec
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB      -    Asian Development Bank
CTSDC    -    Curriculum, Textbook, Supervision Development
Center
DEC      -    District Education Committee
DEO      -    District Education Officer
FC       -    Field Coordinator
HMG      -    His Majesty's Government
IDA      -    International Development Association
JTA      -    Junior Technical Assistant
JEMC     -    Janek Educational Materials Center
MOEC     -    Ministry of Education & Culture
NPC      -    National Planning Commission
OCE      -    Office of the Controller of Examinations
PIU      -    Project Implementation Unit
PMU      -    Primary Materials Unit
PSTU     -    Primary Supervision & Training Unit
RC       -    Resource Center
RETT     -    Radio Education Teacher Training
RP       -    Resource Person
SBU      -    School Building Unit
SEDEC    -    Science Education Development Center
SLC      -    School Leaving Certificate
SMC      -    School Management Committee
SOE      -    Statements of Expenditure
TA       -    Technical Assistance
UNDP     -    United Nations Development Programme
Unesco   -    United Nations Educational Scientific
and Cultural Organization
UNICEF   -    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID    -    United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND ................ ..  ................   1
A. Introduction     .     .  .. .  - ..... .. .  -    1
B. Assistance to Primary Education   .............        1
C. Bank Strategy and Lending for Education ........ .. 2
D. Education Finance .................  ... ... so 2
II.  EDUCATION ISSUES AND POLICIES .................... ...  3
A. Efficiency and Equity in Primary Education ....... 3
B. Quality of Primary Education   . ..............  3
C. Education Administration ................ ........ * 6
D. Education Policies ...................  7
III.   THE   PROJECT   ..................... *....@.....        8
A. Project Objectives, Strategy and Scope ........... 8
B. Primary Education Inputs ........         ..........  9
C. Institutional Development and Management
Assistance ................................. .-o.......*.-. 13
D. Education Project Studies .........    .............. 16
E. Project Evaluation ...... ........................ 16
F. Technical Assistance ......... .. . .   ............... . . 17
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING         .......................... 18
A.   ProJect   Cost  ........... 60...    ......... 0  18
B. Financing ................  20
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT,DISBURSEMENTS
AND AUDITING ..........                     ......  22
A. Project Implementation ......  .... 22
B. Architectural Design and Construction Supervision
Services  ..............  ... 6.......   * .    23
C. Procurement ...       ....... ........                24
D. Disbursement and Auditing           ........         25
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ............ .. . ............ ...... .. . 27
VII.  AGREED ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT ........ 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii--
ANNEXES
1  -  Educational Indicators
2  -  Criteria for the Selection of Project Schools
and School Clusters
3  -  Organization of the Ministry of Education and
Culture
4  -  Organization of the Office of the Controller
of Examinations
5 -  Project Cost Tables
6  -  Project Procurement Plan
7  -  Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursement
8  -  Implementation Bar Chart
9  -  Structure of Project Management
10  -  Technical Assistance
11  -  List of PIU Staff
12  -  List of Working Papers
13  -  Map of Nepal



-iii-
NEPAL
Basic Data 1/
Population
Estimated total (1981)                     15.0 million
Annual growth rate (1970-81)               2.6%
Average density  2/                        104 per sq km
Literacy rate (1977)                       19%
Enrollments (1982) 3/                      Total   Male   Female   % Female
Primary (grades 1-5)              1,475  1,068      407        28
Lower secondary (grades 6-7)        200    157       43        22
Secondary (grades 8-10)             170    137       33        19
Higher (1981)
Certificate (grades 11-12)       44.8  36.6      8.2        18
Bachelor Degree
(Two-Three Years)              11.0   8.7      2.3       21
Higher Degree                     3.5   2.8      0.7        20
(Two years or more)
Education Expenditure Regular and Development (1981-82) 4/ 5/
As a percentage of GDP                          1.4
As a percentage of total
Government expenditure                          9.7
Percentage        Approximate
of Education    Cost per Student
Budget        Rupees      US$
Primary education                     29.0            112       7.8
Secondary education                   15.2            234      16.4
Higher education                      35.6          3,412    238.6
Other budgeted expenditures           20.2
100.0
1/ See Annex 1 for comparative education indicators.
2/ Average population densities vary from 24 per sq km to 103 per sq km from
the mountains to the hills respectively and 356 per sq km on agricultural
land (mostly the Terai and some valleys)
3/ Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.
4/ Source: Ministry of Finance.
3/ N. Rupees 14.9 = US$1.



a
S



I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01    Nepal faces one of the worst demographic situations among less
developed countries. The present population of about 15.0 million is
estiwated to be increasing at over 2.6% per annum and there is no evidence
that the fertility rate is likely to decline. High fertility rates and
population growth mean an increasingly younger population, resulting in
greater pressure to provide schooling. Based on current trends, the popula-
tion under 15 years (which comprised nearly 40% of the total population in
1971) will reach 45% by 1990, The concentration of the population in the less
accessible hill and mountain regions also makes the provision of education and
other social services more difficult and expensive.
1.02    The past decade has been characterized by a rapid quantitative expan-
sion in terms of enrollments and schools. In the Fifth Plan (1975-80),
primary enrollments (including overage studernts) increased from 43% to over
80% of the age cohort. Nearly 2000 primary schools (16% increase) were estab-
lished, mainly with local financing.  The number of primary teachers (includ-
ing untrained school leavers who were hired as teachers) increased by 40%.
Training capacity was inadequate to provide the required number of trained
teachers (which has been the sole responsibility of the Institute of Education
of Tribhuvan University), trained school supervisors or competent managers for
the enlarged education sector, particularly at the primary level. These
issues, elaborated below, will become a foca:L point for improvements during
the Sixth Plan (para 2.18).
B. Assistance to Primary Education
1_03    Apart from limited assistance with school building programs through a
number of integrated rural development projects in Nepal, the only major
interventions in the primary subsector have been financed by UNICEF and UNDP.
UNICEF currently finances the supply of paper, the preparation, printing and
distribution of all textbooks for grades I through III. It finances a project
for the physical iimprovement and sanitation of primary schools which consists
of school reroofing, and provision of water supply and latrines. This project
will cost about US$1.8 million over 1982-86. Also being financed by UNICEF is
a program to provide greater access for women to the teaching profession,
which provides scholarships, the improvement of women's hostels at campuses of
the Institute of Education and support for the Women's Education Unit in the
ministry. Financial support will amount to about US$1.7 million over 1985-87.
1.04    UNDP and UNICEF have jointly financed an on-going UNESCO primary
education project in the Seti zone which aims to support quality improvements
in about forty primary schools, to improve adult literacy through an adult
education program and provide some basic rural skills training. The current
project budget for the 4.5 year project, which started in 1981 is in excess of
US$2 million. The Seti project aims to achieve quality improvements in the
primary subsector by providing, among other things, teacher training, teaching
materials and improvements to school buildings. Its scope and objectives are
broader and more ambitious than the proposed primary project to be financed by
IDA, and it is being implemented in an area which is less accessible; but it
is showing signs of success, although an independent evaluation study has not



-2-
yet been carried out. Both projects fit within overall government development
policies for the sub-sector.
C. Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.05    While this is the first IDA intervention in the primary sub-sector,
IDA has identified two other general areas of priority where assistance is
being introduced--technical and vocational skill training, and agricultural
and forestry training. Technical training for manpower development has been
assisted in the First Education Project financed by IDA. It became effective
on July 13, 1978 and is now approaching completion. The project focuses on
quality and quantity improvements in the supply of technical manpower at
certificate and diploma levels in an attempt to meet the demand for trained
middle and senior level technicians. It is now being implemented success-
fully, despite earlier shortages of building materials. A one-year extension
of the closing date has been granted to allow successful completion of the
project. The Second Education Project financed by IDA, became effective on
July 23, 1982 and focuses on increasing the supply and improving the quality
of training for craftsmen and technicians in electrical, mechanical and civil
engineering. This project is progressing satisfactorily. Forestry skills
training is to be provided under Credit 1008-NEP (which became effective on
September 18, 1980) for the development of community forestry. This project
will finance a new training center in Pokhara to train about 40 foresters
(diploma) and soil and water conservation officers per annum as well as 100
technicians; a further 100 technicians will be trained through upgrading a
similar training center at Hetauda. The project has suffered initial delays
of about 18 months on civil works construction due to slow contractual proce-
dures. An Agricultural Manpower Development Project has recently been
appraised and will finance the improvement of middle and higher level training
in agriculture. The project will: (a) produce about 600 Junior Technical
Assistants (JTAs) per annum of which about 70 will be female; (b) improve the
quality of the general agricultural degree; and (c) establish a degree program
in animal husbandry.
D. Education Finance
1.06    The rapid growth in enrollments for all levels of education during
the Fifth Plan (1975-80) (around 17.5% per annum) has not been matched by a
corresponding annual increase in education expenditure, which averaged about
11% per annum, in real terms, during this period. The greatest contribution
to this increase was in 1975/76 (48.8%), when a higher proportion of teachers'
salaries was first paid by the central Government (para 2.07). Since then
the annual increase, in real terms, has fluctuated down to 6%. The proportion
of the national budget allocated to education decreased from a peak of 12.1%
in 1975/76 to 9.7% in 1981/82. Within the education budget for 1981/82 the
allocation of resources has favored higher education (36%) at the expense of
primary education (29%), which has been consistently underfunded.
1,07    Although present education expenditure of 9.7% of the national budget
or about 1.4% of GDP is not as high as in other Asian countries (Annex 1) this
expenditure is supplemented by contributions, both capital and recurrent, from
local private sources. While no figures are available, these contributions
must be significant, since they cover the cost of construction and maintenance
of primary and secondary school buildings and a significant proportion of



-3-
teachers' salaries at lower and upper secondary levels. Thus, the aggregate
figures given above understate the total flow of resources to education and
consequently, the burden of education on the community, which is greatest at
primary and secondary levels.
II. EDUCATION ISSUES AND POLICIES
A.  Efficiency and Equity in Primary Education
2.01    Primary education suffers from excessive dropout and repeater rates.
A school survey, 1/ undertaken in 1982, shows dropout and repeater rates are
12% and 38% respectively in grade 1 and 8% and 18% in grade 2, with the result
that only about 35% of entrants complete the three year cycle. Low attendance
is also widespread at all levels, especially in primary schools where studies
have shown discrepancies between enrollment and attendance in a number of
districts. Contributing causes are the lack of properly trained and motivated
teachers, poor physical facilities, perceived irrelevance of curricula, the
high opportunity cost of child labor and the debilitating effect of poor
health among children. Furthermore, the three year primary cycle is inade-
quate to achieve permanent literacy and numeracy and serves merely to produce
semi-literate school leavers and entrants to lower secondary education, who
are poorly prepared for further schooling. In recognition of this problem,
the Government has recently decided to extend the primary cycle to five years,
but the success of this policy will depend primarily upon the Government's
ability to obtain financing to meet capital and recurrent costs, especially
teachers' salaries.
2.02    Significant disparities exist in. access to educational opportunities
based on sex and region. In 1982, females accounted for only 28% of total
primary enrollments and although this figure is low it nevertheless represents
progress over the last five years (in 1974/75 female enrollment was only
17.3%). Regionally, the female primary enrollment in 1982 was about 14% in
the Far Western Region compared to 32%, 25% and 31%, respectively, in the
Western, Central and Eastern Regions. Similar regional disparities are found
in gross regional enrollment ratios. Some of these inequities are due to: (i)
the traditional prejudice against education for girls, whose place is in the
home until early marriage; (ii) the opportunity cost of attendance for
children of both sexes particularly among poor rural families; and (iii) caste
differences, which tend to inhibit schooling among lower caste groups, par-
ticularly in rural areas.
B. Quality of Primary Education
2.03    Poorly motivated teachers, inadequate teacher training, the lack of
educational materials and satisfactory school buildings are major causes of
poor educational quality at primary level. Although 98% Rf the project
schools have textbooks, only 70% have teacher's guides, some of which do not
2/ A survey of 650 of the project schools, was conducted in July 1982 by the
Institute of Education, Kathmandu, Nepal.



-4-
match the textbooks, 67% have some charts or maps or other educational equip-
ment. Some chalkboards and writing materials are also lacking and only 40%
have any supplementary reading materials. The problems are a result of inade-
quate operational budgets, most of which must be provided by local com-
munities. Buildings, provided by school committees under the local Panchayat,
tend to be of low quality and poor design, consistent with the poverty of the
area.
2.04    Teaching.  Teacher training has not managed to reform teaching methods
and create a significant departure from traditions. The culture emphasises
absolute recognition of authority; arguing with superiors and asking them
questions is not encouraged. Therefore, teachers find it difficult to
encourage students to express their curiosity and child-centered methods of
teaching are difficult to introduce. Traditionally, teaching in Nepal
involves the transmission of knowledge from teacher to pupil and learning is
considered to mean memorization. These ideas are still widespread. Teachers
are authorities in the classroom, the students follow their dictates and learn
by rote; in over 95% of the schools surveyed. The student, the teacher and
the trainer have all been taught by rote, the tradition is difficult to break.
It is also a less demanding method of teaching and without reward, recognition
or encouragement teachers are unlikely to try different classroom teaching
methods.
2.05    There is a clear difference between what is taught during teachers'
training and what, in fact, they practice in class. From observations of
trained teachers in the classroom, it is concluded that their activities are
confined to reading from the textbook, lecturing, explaining, questioning and
using the chalkboard. Little use is made of the teacher's guide, or the
curriculum. The following activities are too rarely seen: (a) preparation
and planning of lessons (which is practiced in 40% of the schools visited);
(b) use of instructional materials; (c) class demonstrations; (d) field trips;
(e) provision of individual help; (f) multi-grade teaching (which is practiced
in only 41% of the schools visited) when very few schools have a teacher for
every grade; and (g) involvement in community relations. Teachers complain
that these activities involve facilities and help not available in the schools
(such as space, time, money and moral support).
2.06    Teacher Training.  The teacher training curriculum needs revision; it
lacks relevance and an innovative approach; for instance, there is no instruc-
tion on how to manage a multigrade class, or how to teach reading and writing
at primary level (although 40% of the primary curriculum is devoted to these
topics) and there is inadequate emphasis on the kind of knowledge or skill
needed at village level. Teacher trainers often have no school teaching
experience or understanding of the problems faced by a teacher in a remote
village school and there is no task analysis of the responsibilities and
functions of the teacher. Books and texts used for teacher training are
inadequate and outdated.
2.07    Supervision.  Because of difficult communications, responsibility for
school supervision necessarily rests predominantly with district authorities.
The authorities are: (a) the District Education Officer (DEO),
(b) Supervisors, (c) the District Education Committees (DEC) and (d) the
Distr:ict Panchayat members or the newly created School Management Committee
(SMC). Under a recent policy decision, the SMC will have responsibilities at



--5-
ocaBl level for all aspects of running the school, including hiring and pay-
ment of teachers against a block grant.
2.08    The supervisor's prime responsibility, to help improve the quality of
classroom teaching, is almost impossible to achieve because in most instances
supervisors lack teaching experience and appropriate qualifications and have
not received any special training in supervision. Thus few supervisors under-
stand or can carry out their designated role and few can gain the respect of
teachers or headmasters. In addition, primary supervisors are expected to
cover far too many schools (40 schools in the Terai, 30 schools elsewhere)
when walking is the principal means of travel. Exacerbating the problem is
the inability of the supervisor's superior, the District Education Officer
(DEO), to provide professional advice, because he is usually an administrator
belonging to the general cadre of civil servants and has no experience or
professional qualifications in education. Some school teachers are openly
critical of the DEO as a result. The impact of the supervision system in the
schools is consequently very slight.
2.09    Management.  The quality of school management by headmasters is
generally poor. They provide no guidance or encouragement to their staff,
they do not schedule the teaching, take steps to get substitute teachers,
maintain contact with parents or seek help from their SMCs. Virtually none
has had anv special training in school management.
2.10    School Management Committees have a wide responsibility, published
under amendment 7 of the Education Code, to get involved in all aspects of the
school's affairs including educational matters. However, their impact so far
has been slight. After providing school buildings from community resources
and getting children enrolled thereby qualifying the school for one or more
government paid teachers, the SMCs leave the educational aspects of schooling
to the teachers. SMCs neither interfere nor act in a supportive fashion.
Because of the SMCs' inactivity at this stage, community support declines
rapidly once the school is functional. Community effort is not mobilized and
lacks a sense of direction on educational issues, although there is plenty of
evidence of parental and community interest.
2.11    At district level there is too little professionalism mainly arising
from the lack of educational experience of the DEO (para 2.08) and the members
of the District Education Committee (DEC), which has broad responsibilities,
but is ineffective in fulfilling its obligations.
2.12    Buildings and Building Services.  School buildings in Nepal are
generally of very poor quality. Most of them have been built with local labor
and materials, to local designs. In general, their design and construction is
similar to local domestic accommodation; both reflect the level of poverty of
their district. Most primary school buildings consist of two or three small
classrooms (each about 150 sq. ft.) while the school survey shows grade I
enrollments often reach 80 children per class; other data from the survey
reveal that: 79% of the schools surveyed have mud floors; 21% have small
windows providing inadequate lighting; 33% of the windows are without glass or
shutters; 80% have leaking roofs; less than one percent have heating; 69% have
no store room; 61% have water, but only 28% have toilets; 84% have land for a



-6-
play area or garden; and 20% of the schools are in a state of collapse. Rais-
ing these low standards for local school facilities may prove extremely dif-
ficult because: (a) the central government cannot afford to erect or upgrade
about 11,000 primary schools throughout the country; and (b) most local com-
munities possess limited financial resources and no architectural skills to
produce more suitable buildings. However, at nearly 86% of the schools
visited it was stated that the creation of a conducive environment for teach-
ing would be a more important contribution than a pay increase for teachers in
making teaching more effective.
C. Education Administration
2.13    Effective administration of the education system is constrained by:
(a) the strongly hierarchical civil service system resulting in a lack of
de:legation in decision making and reduction of individual initiative;
(b) imprecise job descriptions resulting in duplication of effort; (c) the
lack of trained manpower to meet the needs of the administrative system;
(d) rapid staff turnover which inhibits any lasting effects of training; (e) a
generalist tradition within the public service which has limited the growth
of a more technically oriented specialized administration; 1/ and (f) lack of
clearly defined functions especially for regional headquarters and possible
overlapping functions with the district offices.
2.14    The planning and budgeting systems are not adequate to the task of
predicting and allocating resources to meet ministry objectives. While some
of this is caused by deficiencies in the overall government planning and
budgeting system, much improvement is needed in the MOEC process of defining
needs and resource requirements, allocating resources and evaluating results.
The ministry lacks a coordinated system of data collection and analysis
appropriate to the needs of planning and national development. Data collected
are often inaccurate and inappropriately chosen. Data collection activities
are poorly supervised.
The Examination System
2.15    Complexity.  The Office of the Controller of Examinations (OCE) has
the responsibility of administering annually a nationwide Secondary School
Leaving Certificate (SLC) examination for about 85,000 candidates at 109
examination centers. The examination covers the major subjects English,
Nepali, mathematics, science and social science as well as a number of voca-
tional subiects (such as poultry keeping, agriculture etc.) which are provided
for students of the 125 vocational schools. Because of recent curricula
changes, the examination papers are still being prepared for both the new and
old curricula. Because of the limited size of some of the examination centers
separate papers are prepared annually in most subjects so that three separate
sittings in the same centers can be held. In addition, because some remote
areas are snow-bound in January when the examinations are normally taken,
further sittings for most subjects are provided for remote area students in
I/ There is a small education cadre of civil servants in the MOEC, who can be
retained in the ministry; other general civil servants normally receive
promotion across ministry boundaries.



-7-
April. Thus annually about 500 papers are prepared in more than 40 subjects
covering old and new curricula and providing for a number of different sit-
tings. The burden upon the OCE staff is therefore considerable.
2.16    Efficiency.  The OCE is housed in rented and unsuitable accommodation.
The accommodation lacks the space, equipment and layout to permit an effi-
cient, secure and flawless handling of the distribution of both examination
papers and answer scripts. The organizational problem is exacerbated by
difficulties of distribution of examination papers and the collection of
scripts in a country with few roads and very difficult mountainous terrain.
In consequence, examination papers are not always delivered at the appointed
place on time, leakages and cheating can more easily occur, answer scripts get
lost and it takes between 6 and 7 months before the results are announced.
Every year several hundred candidates have their examination results withheld
due to missing marks or scripts. The candidates which suffer this misfortune
find themselves unable to apply for university entry at the appointed time.
Thus there is hardship and justified complaint.
2.17    Quality.  Under the severe constraints listed above, the pressures of
organizational and administrative issues have tended to preoccupy all the
staff of the OCE. Designated professionals in the OCE are thus engaged
totally in administrative tasks. In addition, the OCE is understaffed with
professionals, no research staff exist and few staff have had appropriate
training. The professional input to the SLC examination comes entirely from
externally appointed item writers and moderators who work as individuals with
little consultation with each other. Consequently, the level of difficulty
of the papers varies from year to year and from subject to subject. Further-
more, the questions set in most subjects place heavy emphasis on the recall of
material and relatively little on the application of knowledge to new situa-
tions, or on the use of thinking skills.
D. Education Policies
2.18    The government's Sixth Plan (1981-86) attaches considerable importance
to the development of the education sector as part of its strategy to meet the
minimum basic needs of the population, and to support developments in other
sectors. Greatest priority is attached to primary education, work oriented
adult education, and vocational and skills training. More specifically, the
government will concentrate on: (a) improving educational quality and reduc-
ing wastage; (b) imparting relevant skills and scientific knowledge;
(c) curricula and textbook revision to make them more relevant to existing
conditions of life, as well as national and social values; and (d) increasing
education opportunities in backward areas and to disadvantaged groups, such as
females.
2.19    The government's strategy to achieve these objectives will be to:
(a) within reasonable expansion targets, contain enrollments at primary,
secondary and particularly tertiary levels , so as to permit greater emphasis
on quality; (b) give priority to new physical facilities for primary educa-
tion, non-formal work oriented education, and vocational and technical educa-
tion; and (c) encourage community involvement for the expansion of general
education, and continue the policy that all physical facilities (buildings and
furniture), excluding technical schools, shall be provided by the local com-
munity.



-8-
2.20    Specific plans involve:  (a) the opening of 620 reading centers with a
view to maintaining literacy; (b) the revision of curricula for primary and
secondary schools; (c) the introduction of reforms in the administration and
supervision of adult and primary education; and (d) the provision of free
education for girls up to secondary level in remote districts and the provi-
sion of special hostels at model schools.
2.21    With known manpower and budget constraints, the government's Sixth
Plan may not be fully realized without considerable foreign support in the
form of technical assistance and financing. For this reason, early in the
Sixth Plan period, the government (a) is seeking donor support for the estab-
lishment of all new technical schools as well as for the improvement of exist-
ing technical schools; (b) is seeking support from donors and IDA for the
primary education subsector, in order to address identified issues (paras
2.01-2.12); and (c) intends to conduct feasibility studies on secondary educa-
tion and non-formal education to identify issues more clearly.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01    The proposed project was identified and defined in outline by an IDA
identification mission, which visited Nepal during November 1981. The project
request was prepared on behalf of the government in March 1982 by Unesco under
the cooperative program. An extensive survey of schools in the six project
districts, agreed at the time of identification, was financed under an IDA TA
credit and conducted by the Institute of Education during June and July 1982.
The project was pre-appraised by an IDA mission in November 1982 and appraised
in July-August 1983.
A. Project Objectives, Strategy and Scope
3.02    The proposed project is designed to:
(a) achieve a low-cost qualitative improvement in primary education;
(b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of the sector.
3.03    In pursuit of quality improvement in primary education the project
would focus closely upon the intermediate objective of improved teacher effec-
tiveness, which would be achieved through (a) increased teacher knowledge and
motivation, and (b) external support in the form of better management,
instructional materials and physical facilities.
3.04    Teachers' knowledge would be improved through the provision of:
(a) an integrated in-service teacher training and supportive supervision
program; and (b) teacher's guides, teaching guidelines and other supportive
reading materials. Teacher motivation would be aided by: (a) improved school
management; (b) greater community interest and support; and (c) the develop-
ment of peer group support within the profession.



-9-
3.05    Strengthening the administrative and technical capacity of the sector
would aim principally to provide the necessary: (a) administrative and techni-
cal support services for improving primary and secondary education; (b) sup-
port for the government's policy to decentralize administrative and technical
responsibility to district and community levels; and would also include:
(c) extensive support for the Office of the Controller of Examinations (OCE)
with the prime objective of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
secondary school leaving examinations. This latter component would help to
i        provide better qualified entrants to higher education and better qualified
manpower for development.
3.06    The project would aim, in the short-term, to find low-cost ways of
effectively addressing primary educational quality issues in the sub-sector
and initiate a gradual strengthening of sector administration, which would
then be capable of absorbing the benefits of subsequent interventions in the
system. The objectives and scope of the proposed projent are necessarily
limited, so as to increase the probability of successful implementation under
existing national constraints namely: (a) a weak economy; (b) poor communica-
tions; and (c) an inadequate public service system. Its design would incor-
porate an evaluation and monitoring system, which would aim to provide valu-
able insights into the potential for further low-cost development of primary
education and would lead to firm proposals for the next stage of development
of the sub-sector.
3.07    In a country with a largely rural population, long-term development
depends, among other things, upon: (a) raising farmer productivity; (b) con-
taining the population growth; (c) improving health services; and (d) expand-
ing and improving the base of the educational pyramid, which feeds secondary
and higher educational institutions. In this project the focus on primary
education and the examination system would, in the long-term, contribute to
meeting such needs.
3.08    Because of the experimental nature of the proposed primary project
component and the risks associated with the constraints listed above (para
3.05), the project would be limited to about 700 schools in six districts
located in three regions. The choice of districts and regions, agreed at the
time of identification of the project, was based predominately upon acces-
sibility criteria (Annex 2).
B. Primary Education Inputs
3.09    To achieve the project objectives for the primary education component
an integrated set of project inpujts was designed to provide a mutually rein-
forcing effect. Central to the design is the concept of primary school
clustering into groups of 8-12 schools with a Resource Center (RC) 1/ school
1/ The Resource Center concept is already in use in the Seti project, a
UNICEF/UNDP/UNESCO project in one district in the Fifth Development Region
(para 1.04). After an experimental period in the Seti Zone and the six
project districts, the RC concept will be considered for adoption in the
remaining districts.



-10-
centrally located to provide on-going teacher training and supportive supervi-
sion. The Resource Center would constitute the main delivery venue for
teacher training under the project and for the supply of education materials
to the cluster schools. Cluster schools and the Resource Center have been
chosen according to criteria given in Annex 2. Each Resource Center school
would have its physical plant augmented by one room which would serve both as
a classroom (of larger size than usual) and as a location for RC activities.
RC staff would be augmented by the addition of one person, who would receive
special training to act as a resource person (RP).
3.10    The staff of the RC would:  (a) provide in-service training to all
cluster school teachers on a number of special topics; (b) bring the supervi-
sion system close to schools through regular classroom visits of RPs;
(c) assist teachers in making simple instructional materials; and (d) build
community support for schools through work with School Management Committees
(SMCs) and parents.
3.11    To assist RC staff in their work, a special RC management committee
with representation from the SMCs for each of the schools in the proposed
cluster would be established prior to, and as a condition for, the estab-
lishment and adoption of that cluster within the project. At negotiations,
the government provided assurances that, such committees would be so estab-
lished and assigned such powers, functions, responsibilities and repre-
sentation to enable them to manage their respective RCs.
3.12    To provide a link between RCs and District Education Officers (DEOs),
who are responsible for primary schools, selected primary school supervisors
in the DEO's office would be designated as Field Coordinators (FCs) and given
special training. Each FC would supervise up to six clusters.
3.13    School buildings and other school facilities would be improved employ-
ing mostly local labor and materials; they would be built to new standards and
designs supplied by the ministry's School Building Unit (SBU). School con-
struction would be supervised by overseers and/or tradesmen employed in the
DEO's offices. Limited supplies of school building materials would be
financed centrally under the project, such as roofing materials and waterpipe.
Only materials that are not available locally would be supplied under the
project, thus preserving community responsibility for the provision and main-
tenance of schools.
Training
3.14    An integrated training program to involve primary teachers, super-
visory staff, headmasters, DEOs, school managers, the community and parents
would be introduced so as to: (a) instill greater teaching and management
skills in the primary subsector; and (b) bring about major changes of attitude
among the whole range of persons who can, and do, influence the success of
primary education. Thereby, the project would begin to:
(a) increase the knowledge and skills of classroom teachers by teaching
new content and techniques, and supervising the practice of these in
the classroom;



-1 1-
(b) increase the effective use of teaching materials in the classroom
through teacher training and supervision, and the availability of
textbooks, teachers guides, guidelines, supplementary reading
materials and teaching kits, which would be financed by the project;
(c) improve the motivation of teachers to perform well by: (i) increasing
their knowledge and skills; (ii) enhancing the leadership skills of
headmasters and other supervisory personnel; (iii) improving
peer-group relations and professionalism among teachers; and (iv)
building community support for improved education for children;
(d) improve the capacity of school managers to support improved teaching
practices and to maintain effective school facilities;
(e) increase the interest of the community its schools and its willingness
to support the effective functioning of schools by community action
programs to encourage direct contributions to the improvement of
facilities and increase parental demands for high quality education
for their children; and
(f) increase the management capacity of administrators at the district
and central levels.
3.15    The constant presence of trained and active RPs and FCs operating from
every Resource Center and District Education Office respectively would ensure
that all teachers in the project schools would receive in-service training and
related in-class supervision on a continuing basis. Throughout the school
year, Resource Centers would conduct: (a) information meetings, 2 to 3 hours
in length, held regularly (at least once a month), attended by representatives
of all satellite schools; (b) follow-up support visits by Resource Persons to
teachers in their classrooms; and (c) short residential courses held at
Resource Centers. In addition, RPs would provide support to teachers enrolled
in Radio Education Teacher Training (RETT), 1/ through classroom visits.
3.16    To avoid the dilution effect which is characteristic of "cascade"
training systems 2/ where large numbers of teachers have to be trained, the
project would appoint additional staff (para 3.18) at the Curriculum, Textbook
Supervision Development Center (CTSDC). CTSDC staff would be instrumental in
conducting direct-contact training at both central level and in the six
project districts in a phased sequence. They would provide: (a) orientation
training for all administrators and others whose support is necessary to make
the RC concept function, from MOEC officials, regional and district officials,
to SMC members and parents; and (b) training for field people (Field Coor-
dinators and Resource Persons) who would work directly with teachers. Where
possible, the training program would use materials and techniques developed by
the Seti project (para 1.04).
1/ RETT is currently being financed by USAID.
2/ Where trainers train trainers, who train trainers etc.



-12-
3.17    The project would finance additional staff salaries (including central
trainers, FCs, RPs and teachers), all training costs (e.g. travel), the
production of all teaching and training material, and teaching and training
equipment. Ways to facilitate prompt and effective implementation, including
the establishment of a small revolving fund at each RC, would be explored and
if practicable the Government would make provision to set up these funds at
each Resource Center prior to its establishment.
Training Responsibilities
3.18    The ultimate responsibility for all training at district and RC level
(except building construction) and materials development would rest with the
CTSDC. To assist the CTSDC in taking on these responsibilities, educational
advisory services including technical assistance would be provided by UNICEF
throughout the project. But, because of its experience of primary education
projects in Nepal, UNICEF would be able to provide more than technical assis-
tance and advisory services. Through its local office it would provide a
broad based institutional strength in support of project implementation and
adapt its role to meet whatever special needs may arise during the life of the
project. In particular, before the project becomes effective, field inves-
tigations and consultations with field personnel to identify training needs
and develop appropriate strategies for different audiences would be organized
and supervised collaboratively by UNICEF and CTSDC staff, employing locally
hired personnel. Based upon the results of this study the proposed project
would train CTSDC staff (paras 3.15 and 3.19) during a three-month course in
Kathmandu conducted by UNICEF, employing expatriate trainers in collaboration
with local Nepali consultants recruited for this purpose by UNICEF (para
3.39).
3.19    To enable CTSDC to undertake its additional responsibilities in the
primary subsector with the minimum disruption of its existing work, the addi-
tional staff would be appointed to two new primary education units, which
would be established within CTSDC: (a) the Primary Supervision and Training
Unit (PSTU) in the Supervision and Training Section of CTSDC; and (b) the
Primary Materials Unit (PMU) in the Curriculum and Textbook Section. The PSTU
would consist of ten staff, one of whom would serve as unit chief, specially
recruited for the project, and nine others, some of whom would be drawn from
the Supervision and Training Section. The PMU would be made up of one cur-
riculum specialist for each major subject taught in primary schools (five
people) with a sixth serving as unit chief. While the PMU would be concerned
primarily with providing materials for use in primary classrooms; both units
would collaborate in the training program at school level. During nego-
tiations the government provided assurances that, where possible, it would
select suitably qualified staff for such positions and subsequent training
from the educational cadre of MOEC.
3.20    Towards the end of their training, the staff of the newly established
CTSDC units, with UNICEF assistance would undertake the detailed design of
subsequent training activities at central and district level, including con-
sideration of training content for different audiences, scheduling and logis-
tics (para 3.16) and begin the preparation of the required materials. Within
six months of completing their training course, the CTSDC staff would have
planned and prepared materials for two of the three major training activities
namely, workshops for field coordinators and for resource persons, and would



-13-
have conducted orientation sessions for Ministry officials (Annex 8). There-
after, training would be closely coordinated with the establishment of
Resource Centers, which would occur in two or more phases. In phase 1,
approximately 24 centers would be opened, in phase 2 (and possibly subsequent
phases) approximately 46 centers would be opened. In the six months prior to
opening a Center, orientation courses for district and school officials, for
staffs of satellite schools, and for SMC members and parents would be con-
ducted and in-depth training would be given to field coordinators, resource
persons, and headmasters of satellite schools. After the opening of the
Centers, refresher courses would be conducted regularly by CTSDC for field
coordinators, resource persons and headmasters. Informational meetings to be
held with Ministry officials and SMC members and parents would also continue
on a regular basis.
Educational Materials
3.21    Beyond textbooks, which are distributed free to all students in Grades
1 through 3, Nepali primary schools have few teaching materials. The project
would contribute to alleviating this shortage by: (a) supporting the design
and field trial of prototypes of simple materials by the Curriculum Section of
CTSDC; (b) including in the activities of the Resource Centers, special
workshops for teachers on making and using materials; (c) providing for each
prolect school an equipment kit for use in preparation of materials; and (d)
providing about 70 library sets, consisting of about 10 dissimilar school
libraries, which can be rotated among the schools in each cluster.
3.22    To support this effort, the Primary Materials Unit (PMU), would be
trained in the development of special materials: (a) to program teaching so
as to improve teachers' classroom behavior; and (b) to suit early primary
grades. The PMU training program would be planned and conducted by UNICEF
(para 3.18) together with four locally contracted Nepali experts.
Training Schedule
3.23    On completion of training for the CTSDC staff, UNICEF and its consult-
ants would collaborate with the PSTU in planning the training course for
Resource Persons (para 3.20). Members of the PMU would also participate in
training sessions, contributing both general background information about
working with young children and specific techniques for making one or two
learning aids. Thereafter the group would experiment more widely with
prototype materials, using Resource Centers for field testing the type of
instruction needed to help teachers to make and use them effectively. The PMU
would draw on the experience of the Seti project and other CTSDC efforts to
stimulate teachers to make and use materials (para 1.04).
3.24    The project would finance the production of all training materials,
textbooks, supplementary reading materials, teaching equipment, teachers
guides, additional staff salaries, training and travel costs, some equipment
and additional recurrent costs for the CTSDC.
C. Institutional Development and Management Assistance
3.25    To achieve the second project objective (para 3.02), the effective
management of educational systems of HMG would require additional skilled



-14-
staff and technical assistance. The ministry would need a staff training
capability and assistance in the redefinition and reorganization of its
administrative system (Annex 3). These changes would aim to: (a) refocus
staff effort on priority tasks; (b) remove unnecessary duplication;
(c) eliminate unnecessary complexity; and (d) improve general operational
efficiency. Particular functions such as data collection, planning, manage-
ment, budgeting and evaluation would be strengthened.
Agencies of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC)
3.26    Specific management sub-components to be provided under the proposed
project would:
(a) strengthen the research capacity of the MOEC and its NEC to provide
well analysed policy alternatives to this policy-making body of the
ministry. Funds would be available under the project to finance spe-
cial studies, and procure some office equipment, which is urgently
needed;
(b)  provide capacity within the Office of the Secretary of Education by
staffing a Project Implementation Unit, which would assist the
Secretary in organizing and administering all special education
projects (paras 5.01 and 5.02);
(c)  strengthen the ministry in the development of a more effective plan-
ning, budgeting and human resource management system by providing
technical assistance to assist the ministry in developing: i) a rolling
three-year administrative plan which would detail expected outcomes of
the ministry programs, resource requirements, and which would serve as
a coordinating mechanism for ministry programs at all levels; ii) a
data collection system that would support policy planning and opera-
tional decisions; and iii) capacity to provide short courses in special
subjects appropriate to the needs of ministry staff, without duplica-
tion of available training elsewhere (e.g. the National Administrative
Staff College or the Institute of Management); and
(d) strengthen the capacity of the CTSDC to provide support for the primary
education system. This would be initiated by a UNICEF study to analyse
the organizational structure and the use of staff resources within the
center; a building, furniture and limited equipment would be financed
under the project for CTSDC, to enable its staff to undertake its new
responsibilities under this and other projects with adequate well lit
space, library, workshops and laboratories.
Regional and District Offices
3.27    Most district offices and some regional offices are using rented
accommodation which is inadequate. Also, because of rising rents, these
offices are frequently being relocated. To provide stable district and
regional support services for both the project and non-project activities
(e.g. training), IDA would finance new buildings for four out of the six
project districts offices (which are presently in rented accommodation) and
for two of the five regional offices (Pokhara and Dhankuta). Regional and



-15-
district offices would be given assistance in the revision of their organiza-
tion structures so as to accommodate their new responsibilities under tne
government's decentralization policy especially in regard to primary education
(para 3.37).
The Office of the Controller of Examinations (OCE)
3.28    More specific support, in pursuit of the second project objective,
would be provided for the OCE in order to address issues of efficiency and
quality in the examination system especially at secondary level (paras 2.16
and 2.17. The specific objectives of this project component would be to:
(a) simplify the examination system over the long-term by seeking to
reduce the number of separate sittings and the number of separate
examination centers;
(b) improve the efficiency of the organization so as to reduce: (i) the
time taken to publish examination results; and (ii) the number of
missing scripts and/or subject marks; and
(c) improve the quality of examining, professional input and research,
(thereby increasing the relevance of examination questions, which
would test such skills as the ability to reason and apply knowledge to
new situations) and raising the standard of moderating.
3.29    To address the issue of complexity will require a constant effort to
improve the size, location and coverage of examination centers. These must
be chosen to take account of such things as: (a) ease of distribution of
papers and collection of scripts; (b) size of examination centers in relation
to catchment area and travelling distance; (c) security, e.g., availability of
police services; (d) availability of postal services; (e) proximity to secon-
dary schools for invigilators etc. Over the long term: (i) the number of
examination centers would be reduced and their size increased thereby reducing
the transportation problems and the number of sittings; (ii) security would be
improved during transportation; and (iii) examination supervision would be
tighter. As a result, the problems in distribution and transportation of
papers and scripts would be minimized and, ultimately only one sitting nation-
wide would be necessary for each subject.
3.30    To achieve these objectives the project would finance surveys to be
conducted of facilities in every district, including police and postal serv-
ices and buildings for examination centers. The surveyors would assess the
success of the distribution and delivery system during the past year and
analyse the causes of problems which come to light. Every year improvements
based upon the survey would be made.
3.31    To address the efficiency problem the project would finance a spe-
cially designed building with necessary furnishings and equipment for the
specialized needs of the OCE including a library, secure storage areas for up
to 3 million scripts, secret data processing and printing rooms, training
space, hostels, cafeteria etc. The building would have three principal areas
for: (a) the public; (b) administrative and professional offices for its staff
(Annex 4); and (c) a secure, entry-controlled area for examination scripts and
papers.



-16-
3.32    To address the quality issue; (a) the number of professional staff in
the OCE would be increased to include moderators and research staff; (b) an
archives library and a research library would be established; (c) foreign
consultants on two month assignments would be employed to advise on specific
issues; and (d) overseas visits would be financed for OCE staff to receive
training at examination centers in other countries.
D. Education Project Studies
3.33    Under the project, financing for project studies would be provided, to
permit the preparation of possible future education projects and for the
eva:Luation of the project. Under the first category, provision would be made
for a survey of primary schools in another twenty districts during the first
three years of project implementation. The results of this survey would be
needed in the preparation of a possible second primary education project.
Concurrently, under the second category, evaluation field studies of the
proposed project would be conducted from the outset of project implementation
employing a locally contracted agency. These studies would continue through
the full period of project implementation (paras 3.35 and 3.36).
3.34    A study on teacher education at primary and secondary levels would
alsD be undertaken to provide recommendations on the consolidation, improve-
ment and tailoring of current teaching programs of the Institute of Education
so as to meet future demands for teachers. Financing for the preparation of
othier possible education projects would also be provided under a general
project preparation category.
E. Project Evaluation
3.35    Because of the experimental nature of the primary school component of
the project, flexibility has been built into the project design, so that
evolutionary change can be made during implementation. These changes would
be based upon continuous monitoring of field activities, which would produce
an accummulation of acquired insights. Similarly, an adequate final evalua-
tion, which draws upon all implementation experiences would be undertaken
towards the end of the project.
3.36    During negotiations, the government agreed to establish a project data
collection system, acceptable to the Association, by January 1, 1985. The
system would provide for field studies to be undertaken employing a locally
contracted agency and would aim to record and collect field data needed in the
monitoring and evaluation of the primary project component. Both designed
project interventions and other coincidental changes in the process would be
studied to assess their effects upon both intermediate and final project
objectives, no matter whether the outcome is positive or negative. Also
during negotiations the government agreed to produce, by July 1, each year, an
evaluation report which would analyse the data collected and make recommenda-
tions for incremental design changes or experimental interventions to be
introduced in the primary education component in subsequent years. This
report would be discussed and decisions taken on suitable adaptive process
changes at an annual tripartite review, when the government, UNICEF and IDA
would be represented. During negotiations the government provided assurances



-17-
that by July 1, 1987, based upon accumulated evaluation results of previous
years, the MOEC would draft a comprehensive plan for the Improvement of
Primary Education and its Administration in Nepal. This document would con-
stitute the basis of a subsequent government proposal for possible IDA assis-
tance to primary education in the future.
3.37    Also, with the assistance of consultants and UNICEF, MOEC would
evaluate the adequacy of regional and district office organizational struc-
tures, staffing and budgets to provide cost effective implementation of the
ministry's policy to decentralize its education system. During negotiations
the government provided assurances that: (a) by July 1, 1987, the MOEC would,
with the assistance of the PIU consultants, furnish to the Association, the
results and recommendations of such evaluation including plans to establish
more appropriate organizational structures, staffing and budgets for the
regional and district offices to accommodate their new responsibilities espe-
cially in the primary sub-sector, and (b) thereafter the MOEC would implement
these plans.
F. Technical Assistance
3.38    UNICEF has agreed in principle to finance the cost of all the educa-
tional services for the primary component of the project and to provide any
other necessary educational and logistic services for the project through its
Kathmandu office, with the help of the UNESCO regional advisor in Bangkok. By
maintaining a continuing relationship with MOEC and the CTSDC, UNICEF would
assist and strengthen the CTSDC so as to achieve a major reform in the quality
of primary education throughout the project districts. UNICEF would also
assist the PIU in establishing an effective system of project management. The
government would sign a Project Agreement with UNICEF for educational services
amounting to about US$1.7 million and as a condition of effectiveness, the
government would fulfill all the effectiveness conditions of the UNICEF
Project Agreement.
3039    Under the proposed project, UNICEF would provide eight staff-years of
assistance to CTSDC and the PIU (Annex 10). UNICEF would assist the CTSDC by
providing (a) a long-term adviser to the PSTU; (b) short-term consultants for
the initial training program (para 3.18) and thereafter throughout the life of
the project. In addition, it would be responsible for the selection and
sub-contracting of ten staff-years of local consultant assistance to CTSDC
(para 3.18) and organizing 6 staff-years of short-term overseas training and
1.5 years of overseas study visits. These resources would be used to provide
36 staff-years of training in Resource Centers, and 300 staff-years of train-
ing in cluster schools. The government provided assurances during nego-
tiations that it would retain in post all CTSDC and PIU staff trained by the
project, at adequate salary levels, until the completion of the project.
3.40    In addition, there would be one half staff-year of foreign consultancy
services for the OCE, about 122 staff-years of local consultancy services and
10 staff-years of overseas short-term training financed by IDA. These
staff-years would be used at the discretion of the PIU, according to Bank
Guidelines, and would help to strengthen the administrative service at central
and district level.



-18-
3.41    Because of the need to contain the expansion in civil service appoint-
menLs under the severe economic constraints which are being experienced in
Nepal, local employees would be appointed on short-term contract for the life
of the project pending the successful outcome of the project. These appoint-
ments would include: 60 staff-years for the appointment of local building
supervisors, 2-3 in each district; 9.5 staff-years or equivalent financial
resources for one or two additional local staff and for local research con-
tracts of relevance to the NEC's policy making function; two staff-years of
local specialist services for strengthening the central ministry, and 50
staff-years would be used for the appointment of PIU staff. Tables 1 and 2
(Annex 10) show the distribution of all technical assistance services which
would be provided by the proposed project. At negotiations, the government
provided assurances that, where possible, regular government positions would
be provided at adequate levels of seniority for fixed-term staff listed in
this paragraph, upon successful completion of the project.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
Total Project Costs
4.03.   The total cost of the project is estimated at Rupee 248.39 million or
US$16.67 million equivalent (NR 14.9 = US$1.0). Detailed project costs by
component and time are given in Annex 5. Cost breakdown by project component
into local and foreign cost components is summarized in Table 4.1:
Base Costs
4.02    Cost estimates excluding contingencies refer to January 1984 prices,
and were calculated on the followings basis:
(a) Construction and Furniture - for office facilities of a similar nature
recently completed in Nepal. The average unit cost was estimated at
about US$200 per sq meter (excluding site development and contingen-
cies) based upon costs of similar buildings over the previous six
months. Cost estimates for building materials (to be purchase by ICB)
include delivery to Kathmandu.
(b) Equipment, Books and Journals - on preliminary lists prepared during
appraisal.
(c)  Consumable Materials - mainly training materials on appropriate cost
per book or other training aid when produced in Nepal.
(d) Architectural Design and Supervision Services - the estimated base
cost of about US$100,000 for architectural services is based on the
national fee scale of 7% of estimated construction cost (3-4% for
design and 3% for construction supervision).
(e) Specialist Services - Local and foreign technical advisory services,
which will be provided by individual specialists, are estimated to
require about 140 staff-years at a total cost of about US$2.0 million,



-19-
including those provided by UNICEF. The average staff-month cost of
long-term foreign specialists (based on the individuals' fees, inter-
national travel and local allowances) is expected to be about US$8,500
and for local consultants to be in the range of US$150 - US$1000
depending upon their role. The total estimated cost also includes
provision for the cost of vehicles, local travel and some other minor
items.
(f)  Operating Costs - on detailed breakdown of maintenance and other
relevant operating costs in similar institutio*s in Nepal.
(g)  Salaries - on agreed scales plus allowance laid down-by the Public
Service Commission (range NR 800 to NR 2,000 per month).
Table 4.1: Summary of Costs by Project Components
(Ru2ee Million)         (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total
A. PRIMARY SCHOOLS AND
RESOURCE CENTERS                16.69    28.64   45.33   1.12   1.92    3.04
B. FIELD ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
1. REGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICES
Eastern Regional Office       3.00     2.62    5.63   0.20   0.18    0.38
Western Regional Office       1.70      1.73    3.43   0.11   0.12    0.23
Sub-Total                        4.70      4.35    9.06   0.32   0,29    0.61
(Regional Education Offices)
2. DISTRICT EDUCATION OFFICES  8.36        5.13   13.49   0.56   0.34    0.91
(Four similarly costed)
Sub-Total                          13.07      9.48   22.55   0.88   0.64    1.51
(Field Admin. Offices)
C. CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
1. Ministry of Education         9.51    10.83   20.34   0.64   0.73    1.36
& Culture
2. Curriculum Textbook          23.22    30.46   53.69   1.56   2.04    3.60
Supervision Development
Center
3. Office of the Controller
of Examinations             20.35    16.05   36.39   1.37   1.08    2.44
Sub-Total                          53.08    57.34  110.42   3.56   3.85    7.41
(Central Admin Offices)
D. STUDIES                          7.42      0.83    8.25   0.50   0.06    0.55
Total BASELINE COSTS               90.25    96.28  186.54   6.06   6.46   12.52
Physical Contingencies           9.03      9.63   18.65   0.61   0.65    1.25
Price Contingencies             22.03    21.19   43.21   1.48   1.42    2.90
Total PROJECT COSTS               121.30   127.10  248.40   8.14   8.53   16.67



-20-
Custom Duties and Taxes
4.03    Goods not specifically imported for the project would be subject to
customs duties and taxes. Instructional equipment, consumable training
materials and building materials imported specifically under the project would
be subject to about 1% tax. The total estimated duties and taxes amount to
US$0.77 million. During negotiations the government provided assurances that
it would take the necessary steps to ensure efficient customs clearance,
including payment of such taxes.
Contingency Allowances
4.04    Estimated project costs include physical contingencies (US$1.25 mil-
lion), estimated at 10% of base cost for unforeseen factors, and price contin-
gencies (US$2.90 million), calculated using price contingencies by years as
listed below in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Price Escalation Estimates
84/85     85/86      86/87     88/89      89/90
Local Price Contingency        8%         7%        6%         6%         6%
Foreign Price Contingency    7.25%       6.5%       6%         6%        6%
Foreign Exchange Component
4.05    Based on detailed analysis of expenditures in similar projects in
Nepal, the foreign exchange component has been estimated as follows:
(a) civil works 40%; (b) furniture 50%; (c) equipment 85%; (d) books 85%;
(e) professional services 10%; (f) overseas training 85%; (g) local experts
10%; (h) foreign experts 85%; (i) salaries and allowances 0%; (j) educational
materials 70%. The foreign exchange component, including contingencies is
estimated at US$8.53 million, or about 51% of the total project cost.
B. Financing
Financing Plan
4.06    The total project cost of US$16.67 million equivalent would be
financed as follows:
(a) a proposed IDA credit of US$12.78 million equivalent would cover about
80% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties (100% of the
balance of foreign exchange costs after deduction of UNICEF's con-
tribution and 58% of net local costs).
(b) UNICEF would finance a major part of the technical assistance program
(fellowships and specialists' services) (paras 3.38 and 3.39)
estimated at US$1.70 million including contingencies;



-21-
(c) the Government would finance the remaining net costs of US$1.42 mil-
lion (about 9% of total net project costs), and all customs duties
and taxes.
4.07    The financing plan and IDA credit allocations by category of expendi-
ture is presented in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Project Financing Plan
US$ million
Government
of Nepal   IDA       UNICEF        Total
1. Civil Works                             0.55    3.13          -         3.68
2. Building materials  and                  0.17    2.28          -         2.45
furniture
3. Equipment, books and journals            0.09    2.01          -         2.10
4. Professional services and                 -      0.80          -         0.80
project studies
5. Technical assistance local                -       1.69        1.70       3.39
consultants and misc. costs
6. Educational and other consumable         0.14    0.56          -         0.70
materials
7. Staff salaries, allowances,              1.01    1.03          -         2.04
training and operating costs
8. Unallocated                              0.24    1.28          -         1.51
Total Project Cost a/                       2.19    12.78       1.70       16.67
Less taxes and duties                       0.77                            0.77
Total Net Project Cost b/                   1.42      12.78 c/  1.70 d/  15.91
a/ Totals do not add due to rounding
b/ Excluding taxes and land costs
c/ The Credit of US$12.78 million represents 90% of costs net of taxes
and UNICEF's contribution
d/ UNICEF estimate including contingencies



-22--
Recurrent Expenditures
4.M08    To assist the government in setting up and operating the project
institutions, IDA would finance recurrent incremental expenditures on a
declining basis to cover: (a) salaries of additional professional and support
staff for the MOECp CTSDC, OCE and the project districts; (b) project training
and travel costs; and (c) operating costs during the project period from the
estimated date of Credit effectiveness (July 1, 1984) to June 1989.
Recurrent Cost Implications
4.09    The incremental recurrent costs (mainly salaries and allowances of
additional staff and maintenance of physical facilities) generated by this
project when fully operational would amount to N. Rupees 10 million per annum
in 2.983 prices which is equivalent to less than 2% of the total estimated
pub:Lic se^tor expenditures for education in fiscal year 1982/83. These addi-
tional expenditures could be accommodated without undue financial difficulty
to the Government.
Retroactive Financing
4.10    To assist the government with early implementation of the project,
prof-essional fees, site development, technical assistance and salary costs for
incremental staff incurred between January 1, 1984 and the date of Credit
effectiveness, amounting to US$350,000, would be financed retroactively.
Local Budget Requirements
4.11    Budget allocations would be made available to the project on an annual
basis, in accordance with the Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements shown
in Annex 7. During negotiations, the government provided assurances that it
would make the necessary funds available so as to ensure prompt project
implementation during the life of the project and proper operation and main-
tenance of the physical facilities.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENTS AND AUDITING
A. Project Implementation
Project Management
5.01    The project would be implemented over a period of 5 years.  To ensure
effective implementation, a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been
established and a Project Director has been appointed. During negotiations
the government gave assurances that the PIU would thereafter be maintained in
the MOEC and that other senior staff would be appointed as a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Annex 11). Because of the high priority and importance
given by HMG to this comprehensive intervention in primary education, the PIU
would operate under the immediate direction of the Secretary of Education and
Culture (Annex 9). The PIU has been designed to be the future administrative
unit for all education projects. A Project Implementation Board (PIB) would



-23-
be established as a condition of Credit effectiveness ard thereafter be main-
tained; it would have representation from the Ministry of Finance and the
National Planning Commission (NPC). One of it's main functions would be to
help expedite matters (such as civil works contracting) requiring the
clearance of other ministries and to approve the Administrative Plan (para
5,02).
5.02    The PIU, working with the Director of the CTSDC, would prepare an
Administrative Project Plan for IDA clearance, by January 1, 1985.  The Plan
would detail all project activities and their schedule. Once the budget,
manpower, and major activities of this plan have been accepted by the
Secretary and the Implementation Board it could be changed only by that Board.
B. Architectural Design and Construction Supervision Services
5.03    The architectural design, construction and supervision of school
facilities (including modification, improvements and extensions) would be
handled by an "in-house" departmental technical unit within the Ministry.  The
present Engineering Unit would be strengthened and upgraded to become a School
Building Unit (SBU) which would handle: (a) variations of the available stand-
ard Unesco primary school design drawings and construction guidelines; (b) the
design of DEO and Regional Directorate facilities and the modifications of
central ministry premises; and (c) the supervision of related construction
operations. The emphasis would be on the supervision of field operations with
distribution and explanation of plans and guidelines, and the provision of
assistance to local communities in constructing adequate and structurally
sound premises.
504    In addition to any SBU staff required for other projects financed from
other sources, staffing requirements for this project are estimated as fol-
lows: (a) one director (acting also as the project architect para 5.01);
(b) one other qualified architect or structural engineer, (c) two draftsmen;
and (d) about twelve site overseers, to be stationed at district education
offices. The SBU could not provide architectural services and building super-
visory services for occasional major buildings. Therefore, a private architec-
tural firm would be selected to design and supervise the construction of the
CTSDC and OCE facilities. In a manner and substance satisfactory to the
Association, the government agreed to: (i) revise preliminary drawings of the
CTSDC and OCE facilities; and (ii) prepare, as a condition of Credit effec-
tiveness, full working drawings and bidding documents for the CTSDC and OCE
buildings.
IDA Review and Approval
5.05    IDA would review and approve all master equipment and furniture lists,
equipment specifications, fellowship programs, terms of reference of experts,
site layout plans and preliminary designs for civil works, draft tender and
contract documents, packaging of civil works equipment contracts, and all
related cost estimates.
Site Selection
5.06    The CTSDC and OCE buildings are to be constructed on an area of about
10 acres at Sano Thimi near Kathmandu.  The site is already owned by the



-24-
M-inl-stry (MOEC). It is the location for the main campus of the Institute of
h5Juca.eion and the location for the Janek Educational Materials Center (JEMC)
-zhi(h  is a parastatal organization.  Also to be built on this site will be
the OSience Education Development Center (SEDEC) to be financed by ADB.
6e-ause of the need to develop the site in an orderly fashion, the government
pas -reoared, a Master Plan for the Sano Thimi site.  At negotiations, the
o)7:ernment provided assurances that it would carry out all future developments
ofi the Sano Thimi campus to conform to the master plan.  Sites have been
ac-iired for both regional offices and some of the district offices; evidence
f acuisition of all major sites has been submitted to the Assoication.
C. Procurement
The project procurement plan, outlined below is summarized in tabular
fra  Annex 6).
LYocal Competitive Bidding (LCB) (US$3.69 million) 1/
>0X7   Civil Works and Furniture (US$2.90 million).  Past experience in Nepal
,a -own that contracts for civil works (below US$800,000) and furniture
(elow US$250,000) do not attract foreign bidders if they cannot be con-
solidated into large packages. Therefore, contracts for regional and district
oIffees, and all furniture would be awarded on the basis of competitive b:Ld-
d.ing ad-vertised locally, following procedures which are satisfactory to the
Association and do not exclude foreign bidders. Construction would be carried
;ulInder one integrated contract per building by private contractors. Only
p-ec.uail ried contractors would be allowed to bid for civil works contracts in
exaeoS of US$200,000 under this project.
90l    Building Materials, Equipment and Vehicles (US$0.30 million).  Because
e large variety of small items of building materials and equipment will be
oieedel for school construction and teaching purposes and because there will
be an immediate need for start-up vehicles, which cannot be met through ICB,
the gcovernment will procure some equipment locally. Contracts which cannot
be Srouped into packages for bulk procurement of at least US$50,000 and not
exceeding in aggregate US$300,000 (equivalent to about 13% of the estimated
total cost of building materials, equipment and vehicles) would be procured
by competitive bidding advertised locally, following procedures which are
satisfactory to the Association.
5.O0    Educational Materials and other Consumable Materials (US$0.49
million). Since timely production of educational materials and delivery of
consumable materials for laboratories, workshops and offices is critical, such
;laterials would be procured locally on a regular basis following competitive
bidding procedures advertised locally, following procedures which are satis-
factory to the Association.
I/ This and subsequent statements are estimates including contingencies.



-25-
International Competitive Bidding_(ICB) (US$4.85 million)
5.10    Civil Works, Building Materials and Equipment.  Contracts exceeding
US$800,000 equivalent for civil works, and US$50,000 for building materials,
vehicles and equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Local manufacturers or
contractors would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% of
the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever is
lower for building materials, vehicles and equipment and a margin of
preference of 7.5% in bid evaluation against competing foreign contractors for
civil works construction.
Other Procurement Methods including Direct Purchase and Off-the-Shelf Shopping
(Local and International) (US$5.89 million).
5.11    Off-the-shelf items of building materials, furniture, equipment
(excluding books and journals), and educational consumable materials, not
exceeding US$30,000 equivalent for each contract and aggregating to a maximum
of US$550,000 (equivalent to about 11% of the estimated total cost of building
materials, furniture, equipment and educational materials) would be purchased
on the basis of a minimum of three competitive price quotations. Books and
instructional printed matter (US$0.71 million) would be purchased directly
from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest possible prices on
the basis of at least three competitive price quotations, if applicable.
5.12    Professional services and other consultancy services (US$0.88 million)
and, technical assistance (US$2.03 million) would be obtained in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines; in addition UNICEF would finance about US$1.7
million towards the cost of technical assistance; for these services, UNICEF
procedures would be followed. There would be only 6 staff-months of foreign
consultants under IDA financing, for which direct hire by the government would
be practiced. UNICEF would act as an agent in handling overseas training for
the primary education component.
IDA Review and Approval of Procurement Decisions
5.13    Prior approval of the Association would be required for the award of
any civil works contract exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and for contracts
for the purchase of any equipment, books, furniture, building materials, and
consumable training materials exceeding US$50,000 equivalent resulting in a
coverage of about 85% of building materials and works contracts, and 75% of
other goods contracts. The PIU would be advised to forward bid evaluations and
recommendations for contract awards, allowing sufficient time (at least one
month) for the Association's review and approval. In addition, bid validity
dates would be established to allow the PIU or the evaluating body involved,
sufficient time to process bids received, prepare an evaluation and reach
agreement on award recommendations.
D. Disbursements and Auditing
Disbursements
5.14    The proposed Credit of US$12.78 million would finance 90% of total
project costs after deduction of US$1.7 contributed by UNICEF, net of customs



-26-
duties and taxes. The disbursement profile (Annex 7) is based upon the
average profile of education projects Bank wide but adjusted to allow for
early implementation, already underway, including civil works, which reached
the preliminary design stage by the date of negotiations. The proceeds of the
proposed IDA Credit would finance the various categories in the following
mann.er.
(a) Civil works
100% of foreign expenditures,
80% of local expenditures,
(b) Building materials, furniture, equipment, vehicles, books
and journals
100% of foreign expenditures,
80% of local expenditures (ex-factory),
65% of other local expenditures (off-the-shelf purchases);
(c) Expert services for technical assistance; professional services
for architectural design and supervision; overseas training and
studies
100% of total expenditures;
(d) Educational and other consumable materials
80% of local expenditures (ex-factory),
65% of other expenditures (off-the-shelf purchases); and
(e) Incremental staff salaries, training costs, allowances, and
operating costs
On a declining basis by years (FY 84/85 - 100%; FY 85/86 - 100%;
FY 86/87 - 85%; FY 87/88 - 20%; FY 88/89 - 0%).
Documentation of Expenditures
5.15    With the exception of item (e) (para 5.14), all withdrawal applica-
tions for contracts equal to, or in excess of US$10,000 will be supported by
full documentation. Withdrawals against item (e) and for local currency
contracts below US$10,000 in value would be made against statements of expen-
diture (SOE) certified by the Project Director. Documentation in support of
SOEs would not be submitted to the Association but would be retained by the
PIU for review by IDA's supervision missions. In addition, this documentation
would be subject to an independent auditor's report which would be submitted
no later than nine-months after the end of the Borrower's fiscal year in which
the expenditures covered by the SOEs were paid. To the extent practicable,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts equivalent to US$50,000
or more (and not less than US$20,000), prior to submission to IDA for reimbur-
sement.



-27-
Project Accounts and Audits
5.16    Project accounts would be recorded in accordance with sound accounting
practices. During negotiations, the government provided assurances that: (a)
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) certified
copies of the audited accounts and financial statements, for each fiscal year,
together with the auditor's report would be furnished to the Association as
soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01    Because the project objectives and scope are narrowly focused, the
project's probability of success is increased and evaluation of its direct
short-term benefits is also simplified. Successful evaluation of the project
would indicate ways of achieving more cost-effective project designs for the
future. The possible benefits of this first project in the primary
sub-sector, therefore, must be viewed over the long-term when a second or even
third project is nearing its completion. Over the long-term, through improved
teacher performance, improved school management, improved technical backup
support, and improved administration at the ministry level a gradual quality
improvement would be achieved at relatively low cost. This in turn would
raise literacy levels, which would facilitate agricultural extension work and
improve farm productivity. Similarly improved primary education would con-
tribute to improvements in health and hygiene, all of which are necessary for
long-term national development. In addition, the project, and subsequent
primary projects, would accelerate the government's decentralization policy in
education by creating a greater awareness and self-dependence at district and
village level and by strengthening district and regional office respon-
sibilities. An equally important long-term benefit would be to create an
adequate educational base at primary level, to supply secondary schools with
adequately qualified entrants and this quality improvement would filter upward
to higher education. A reform of the examination system would serve to rein-
force this benefit particularly at secondary level, thereby enabling qualified
manpower to be trained in sufficient numbers to meet the demands of a develop-
ing society.
6.02    The project is spread over six districts with poor communications,
the absorptive capacity of the ministry is limited and a weak civil service
administrative system exists throughout Nepal. While the most accessible
districts have been selected for the project and to strengthen the ministry
is one of the project objectives, the risks due to these limitations cannot
be entirely removed. They will be reduced by: (a) a simplified delivery
system for inservice teacher training and supervision (para 3.10); (b) employ-
ing UNICEF to provide, (i) technical and management advice, (ii) guidance
especially in the early stages of implementation, and (iii) institutional
support (para 3.17); (c) introducing project management procedures which-will
institutionalize change in key divisions of the ministry (paras 3.26, 3.28 and
3.37); (d) the appointment of well qualified and motivated project staff.



-28-
VII. AGREED ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT
7.G1    As conditions of Credit effectiveness the government agreed to take
the following actions, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Associa-
tion:
1)  fulfill all the conditions of effectiveness of the UNICEF Project
Agreement (para 3.38);
2)  establish and thereafter maintain the Project Implementation Board
(para 5.01);
3)  maintain a PIU within MOEC and appoint to it a project architect, an
examination specialist from OCE and an education officer from CTSDC
(para 5.01);
4)  prepare working drawings and bidding documents for the CTSDC and OCE
buildings, (para 5.04);
7702    During negotiations the government provided assurances that it would:
1)  prepare by July 1, 1987 a draft comprehensive plan for the Improvement
of Primary Education and its Adminstration in Nepal and thereafter
seek to implement such plan in a suitable manner(para 3.36);
2)  by July 1, 1987, with the assistance of consultants and UNICEF:  (a)
evaluate the adequacy of the organizational structures of regional
and district offices, staffing and budgets to provide cost effective
implementation of the ministry's policy to decentalize its education
system; (b) furnish to the Association, for its review and comments,
the results and recommendations of such evaluation; and (c) there-
after, taking into account the Association's comments, implement such
recommendations (para 3.37);
3)  prior to the establishment of a particular school cluster establish
and thereafter maintain a Resource Center Management Committee which
would be assigned such powers, functions, responsibilities and repre-
sentation to enable it to manage the Resource Center concerned (para
3.11)
4) (a) select suitably qualified candidates from the education cadre of
MOEC for training under the project (para 3.19); (b) retain in post
at adequate salary levels until completion of the project all CTSDC
and PIU staff who have been trained under the project (para 3.39);
and (c) upon successful completion of the project, endeavor to provide
regular government positions at adequate levels of seniority for all
staff on temporary appointments (para 3.41);
5)  take necessary steps to ensure efficient customs clearance, including
payment of customs duty and taxes on all equipment and materials for
the project (para 4.03);



-29-
6)  make necessary funds available so as to ensure prompt project
implementation during the life of the project and proper operations
and maintenance of physical facilities (para 4.11);
7) carry out future development of the Sano Thimi Campus to conform to
the approved master plan (para 5.06).
8)  have accounts and financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; furnish certified accounts and finan-
cial statements and the auditor's report within nine months after the
end of each fiscal year (para 5.16);
7.03    During negotiations understandings were reached with the government
that it would:
1)  establish a project data collection system by January 1, 1985 (para
3.36);
2)  based upon the project data collected, provide annual evaluation
reports by July 1 each year (para 3.36).
3)  prepare an Administrative Plan for IDA clearance by January 1, 1985
(para 5.02);
7.05    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$12.78 million to His Majesty's Govern-
ment of Nepal for a term of 50 years including a 10 year grace period.



-30-
Annex 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                             URge I of 2
FEBRUARY 16, 1984
CENTRAL                                T
GOVERNMENT
EXPENIDITURE   EDUCATION                         COMPLETION            RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  REcuRRENT       ADULT              RATE POR              UNIT COST  PRO0RESSION
INP PER              AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   SECONDARY SECONPARY SIGHER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE           ENROLL. SCHOOL       STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR MILLS. (US$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    PRI  SEC  NI    (2)    RATIO   CYCLE              PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO        PER        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE            (1)        (Iq76)   (Z)         (1)     TEACRER  CNP/CAPITA        (0)        (2)      TEAC49R      f )
(1)     (2)        (3)            (4)           (5)          (6)       (7)       (8)        (9)        (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
AUSTRALIA          80    14.6b  89,70        6.3*        14.6        ---  ---  ---   ---        103X      100         21        ---           99           73       13       20.90
CANADA             81    23.7b  9,650b    7.7a          18.54Y       30a? 34a7 23at   ggb       106*      100         21        19.9*?       100          92x       18       22.60x
GERMANY F.R.       79    61.2  12,200       4.6           99a ---  ---  ---    99b              89a      loo1                               10- 0--  lo*a  q4a      ---     12.10a
NETRERLANDS        79    14.0  10 490       7.9           5.1        20   35   25      99bt      96        95         18        15.3          99          82        13       12.40
NEW ZEALAND        80      3.2b  6 0891      5.5w        13.4        37   31   28    g9b        100       100         24        11.6         100          82        15       25.90x*
SWEDEN             79      8.3  12,250      9.0         18.2        31   10   10       99b       99X      100         18a       19.9         100          79*       l0*y    36.50*Y
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA           80      0.8b    72Ob    6.3P          19.3        48   28   15      35b       94        74         32        22.0          33**        20        18        1.50
BURUSDI            81      4.2      235      2.8bw       19.0        43   28   27      25        29*       35         37        20.2          12           3x       17        1.00
COOROS            80      0.4b    260       6.5w        25.4        40   28b  14      ---       99X       65         45        16.0          58          21x       30        1.40
DJIsOUTI           81      0.3      460     5.4          10.8        60   40   ...    10         32        ---        41        ---           60           8        19        0.50
ETHIOPIA           81    32.8b    140b    2.9P           38.7        45   25   20      53        42        12*        63        40.0          93a         14        44        0.45
KENYA              79    15.3       390      5.9qW       8.5b        71   15   14      45        92        74         40        15.8          41          19        28        1.00
LESOTHO            82      1.4w    435b    5.5           16.9        38   32   26      53b      116*       41         48         9.6          46          21        21        1.30
MADAGASCAR         77      8.5      330      4.Ow        24.0        53   28   19      50        94bx      33         55b        8.0          38          14        23        3.10by
MALAWI             81      6.lb    230b    3.5           11.4        38   14   25      25b       62        23         65         5.9          12           4        21        n.40
MAURITIUS          80      o-9b  1,080b    6.0           11.5        39   40    7      80        87        78         22b       17.1          79          45N       21        0.40
RWANDA             80      5,ob    200b    3.2           21.3        62   17   11      23b       57*       62         40        14.0           6           4*       13        0.40
SEYCNELLES         79      0.6   1,770      5.9         22.4*       348  33a  10*a   ___         ---       --         25        ---           ---         _---      __ 
SOMALIA            81      4.5      280     1.5          10.5        50b  44b   6b    50b        22b       s0b        29b        9 06         Rob         12b       22        1.00
SUDAN              80    19.2b    380b    3.0           ---         66   39   ...    32          51ax      68         34         1.4          44          16        15       ...
SWAZILAND          80      0.6      760     7.9         18.8        41   34   15       65b       79        50         34        11.2          99          37b       18        2.50
TANZANIA           80    18.5       260     5.9          17.7       47   10   16       79b       996       87         43        11.0          l9b          3        20a       0.30
UGANDA             80    12.6b    300b    ---            16.l'       23b  37b  20b    48         54*       60         34        ---           17           5        23        0.60
ZAIRE              78    27.5       2*oa    6.0*        22.0        49   26   25       15        84Y       44         423       ---           41          13x       27        1.10by
ZAMBIA             80      5.7b    566b    4.5P          11.1        48   23   22      44b       95        80         48        12.9          19          16        22        1.50
ZIMBABWE           81      7.7b    700b    5.1          19.5        62   32    6       44b       90        55         39        20.0          85          15        23        0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
BENIN              79      3.4b    3206    6,5w         35.0        43   21    5    lib          42        30         46        14.0          30          11        43        1.00Y
CAMEROON           78      8.2      590     2.9Y         16.0y      33a  438  20A   ---          74Y       45a        505       11.8a         20a         14Y       26        1.30Y
C.A.R.             79      2.2      280     3.8ay       20.6a        -     -     -     --Y                            65ay      ---           ---         ---       ---       0.70*Y
CHAD               76      4.4      120     2.4b6y      21.7b -6       -  ---  ---   15          25Y                  77        ---           ---          3xy      21        0.20Y
CONGO              78      1.5      670     9.0awy      27.7aY       ---  ---  ---   ---         ---       -          56by      ---           30          ---       43by      4.00aY
GABON              77      0.6   3,420       3.7by        8.4y       ---  ---  ---   ---         ---       ---        46by      ___                                 19 6 1'gby  2.80*Y
GAMBIA             77      0.6      220      3.3aw        6.5b      46   25a   6a   icb          40by      9oa        27by      44.7a         40          12bxy    17         ---
GHANA              76    11.3       400     4.0Y         15.5b 6      __  ---  ---   ---         71bxy    ---         27by      ---           ---         36b*      31
GUINEA             79      5.3      295P    4.6aP        ---        25a  283  28*   20           34        36         38        20.0aP        85          16        29        7.00*
IVORY COAST        81      8.2b  1,070b   10.0          45.0        33   46   13    30b          60        86         43        26.0          47          158*y    26         1.90ay
LIBERIA            80      1.9      520     4.6         19.6        43   23   24    30           52        32         35        20.0          76          22        20        2.90
MALI               81      7.0b    190      4*2a         21.7*       38   21   11    10          20        60         44        15.7          66            1       11        0.90*Y
MAURITANIA         78      1,6b    320b    5.5           16.9        33   43   25    17b         32        60         44        52.0          30           9        25        0.37
NIGER              78      5.2      300     4.3ay        16.6*Y      52a  43a   5*    8          17        56a        41a       38.7a         40           2        24b       0.20Y
NIGERIA            77    82.6       910     4.1y          9.6       ---  ---  ---                ---       ---        ---       ---           ---           *1xy    25        0.17Y
SENEGAL            77      5.5      450     5.0          23.0       46   34   20    10           34bxy    ---         43by 61'                20          10        21        2.20by
SIERRA LEONE       77      3.4      250     4.0b        16.0b        ---  ---  ---   15b         37*       ___        35        25.0b         84          15X       22        0.60by
TOGO               78      2.4      400      6.5q9       26.5q       30*  28a  21a   18          74        40         54by      38.0          52          32bxy    48b        1.60by
UPPER VOLTA        78      5.6      180     3.,a8        19.3ay     31   16   32    ---          15by      23         53by      52.5?         19           3bx6    25         0.02y
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIRBEAN
ARGENTIrTA         78    27.3   2,210       2.7          10.9       43a  31a  18a   93b          89        52         17        ---           87          31         8       23.00
BARANAS            79      0.2   2,770       5.7         19.1        36   36   11    93b         99        97         24        ---           97          75        19       ---
BARBADOS           78      0.2   2,680      8*5ay       22.1*a      43a  31a  16    996b        100Y       99a        27Y       19.9a         99a         78Y       20Y      ---
BOLIVIA            80      5.4      550     4.1ay       30.5*a       ---  --   ---   63          747       ---        20Y       ---           ---         15Y       ---      12.60Y
BRAZIL             79   116.5   1,770       3.8           6.2       51   ---  14    76           73ay      ---        23ay       4.5b         61*         15'Y    14*y    12.62b
CHILE              76    10.9   1,890       3.2by        13.0b6      -1- -9- ---   --           llgb*      ---        34by      ---           ---         5xy    625by    11.90by
COLOMBIA           80    26,7b  1,180b    3.3           25.0        35   20   20    9lb          78        36         32         6.6          ---         47        20       10.02*y
COSTA RICA         80      232b  1,810b    8.4          31.1         40   27   33    90          93        77         33         5.5          77          40        27       14.00
CUBA               78      9.8      ---     8.0         11.0         ---  ---  ---   96         112bxy    98          18by      ---           98          71bxy    15        19.02by
DOMINICAN REP.    80       5.3   1,030       2.9         13.0        39   21   22    68b         s0        31         59         3.2          94          30        33       16.00
ECUADOR            80      8.4b  1,110      6.0P        36.7         45   31   16    81         105        ---        36        12.6          86          47        16       29.00
EL SALVADOR        77      4.4      640      3.4by      23.1b6      64    8   27    62          82bxy    32          39        ---           41          26bxy    27by       7.90by
GUATEMAIA          78      6.8   1,010      1.7a*y       12.66b      ---  ---  ---   --          69bxy    ---         35by      ---           69          15bxy    19by       5.505
GUYANA             76      0.8      630     8.1by        13.8by ,96 7__  --9 ---                 ggbxy    ---         32by      ---            ---        59*b       ---      3.00by
HAITI              80      5.0b    230       3.4w         7,9*y      65    9    6    23b         50        20         41        19.0          62a           4a      27        0.80
UONDURAS           78      3.6      520      3.5by       14.36by     62a  15*  198   60          99b61     308        41by      12.88         68a         21*1'     19        8.505y
JAMAICA            90      2.1   1,110      6.5          13.7        37   43   20    90          98        98         40         2.3          95          81        22        8.00
MEXICO             80    65.5   1,880       4.7          17.0a       46   39   15    92          98        53         44         9.5          86          56        17       10.30
NICARAGUA          78      2.6b   610b      3.Obw       14.Ob -6 --  --   9go0b                  5*bx     24         37b 6      --           ---         26bx      30b 56     -
PANAMA             78      1.86  1,550b    5.5bwy       21.8by      423  13a  13    82b          95by      3--        25by      11.6          85a         50by      27by    20.40bY
PARAGUAY           79      3.0   1,140       1.4*       14.2        42   17   20    84           83        32         28         3.1r         76          22        12        0.70
PERl               80    16.6   1,000       3.6         14.3        53   15   19    80           83        56         39         9.8          89          39        22       14.401
TRINIDAD & TOB.   77       1.1   3,910      4.8bY        898by       48   32   20    95          98        91         30        10.5t         49          62        24       ___
URUGUAY            78      2.9   2,500      2.5           9,4b       --- ---  ---   94          105bx      ---        24b       ---            ---         64b6      ---     17.80aY
VENEZUELA          78    14.4   3,440       5.1Y        18.9b 6      __  ---  ---   82          106b6      ---        28 9       --            ---        38bx      17       21.10Y



-31-
Annex 1
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                           page 2 of 2
FEBRUARY 16, 1q84
l               _                 1CENTRAL
I                                      G~~~~~~~~~~~~OVERNMENT                                                                                              1
EXPENDITURE   EDUCATION                         COMPLETION           RECURRENT
ON EDUCATION  RECURRENT       ADULT             RATE POR              URNI COST  PEOCRESSEON
GOP PER              AS PERCENT    EXPENDITURES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY    PRIMARY  PRIMARY    RATE FROM   SECONDARY SECONDARY HIGHER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE          ENROLL. SCHOOL      STUDENTS EDIUCATION  PRIMARY TO  ENROLL.   STUDENTS  ENROLL.
YEAR MILLS. (0S$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMENT    PRI  SEC  NI    (2)    RATIO   CYCLE            PER       AS PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO       PEP        RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDUCATION  EXPENDITURE           (2)        (1976)   (2)        (r)     TEACHER  GNP/CAPITA       (Z)         (7)    TEACHER       (2)
(1)     (2)        (3)           (4)           (53          (6)      (7)       (8)        (9)       (10)         (11)        (12)       (13)    (14)
EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
CHINA              81   996.0b    300b    3.6            8.3       34   39   27       69       s 80      63         23        7.0          72          38        17        3.70
s  INDONESIA       81   150.5b    520       2.1         9.3        70   24    6      32b       98        61         37       11.0          74          27        26        3.70
KOREA              82    39.3b  1,636b    7.7W          20.8       34   34   31       96       99        98         43        19.0         98          84        39       71.80
MALAYSIA           81    14.2b  1,788b    5.2          22.0        32"  37v  15W    61h        96a'      97         22       12.2- 97                  65a       19        3,70a
PAPVA NE..         79      2.9     760      5.4        16.4 ---   ---   ---    ---            62b4      73         31        1.1           1--        12b4      23
PRILIPPINES        79    48.3b    69qb    2.8V          14.0       64   36***---    75b        84        65         31        7.1          89          95        36      21.00
SINCAPORE          80     2.4   4,420       2.7         6.7        39   40   16      83        92        82         31        8.8          96          55        22       8.00
SOLOMON EIL.       80     0.7      460      47P"        10.00a     41   34   20      ---       60        80        26        ---           35          18        ---      ---
THSATLAmID         S0    47.3b    723b    3.4           20.9       59   15   13       86b      96        ---        17        9.3          59          29        22       4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANGLADESN         79    92.3b      90      l.IP       10o.ay      51   17   20      22b       63Y       ---        53        5.6          --_         14        23        1.43
I,NDIA             77   659.6      210      2.9Y        9.9"       ---   ---   ---    36       79X       ---       41        ---           ---         28X       -3-S.Y
NEPAL              82    15'0b    150b    1.4         ---           ---   ---   ---    19      70        ---        38       ---           ---         21        23       3.70a
PAgISTAN           79    79.7      270      2.0wY        5.1y      39   26   27       24       56X       80*        48        6.5          51          20.       17       6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN        77    15.5      ---      1.7          3.7       47   19   15       12       31by      69         37b      ___           62           8        22bY     1.007
ALGERIA            79    18.3   1,770       3,g8        12.3       34a  26a  21a    35         83Y       458        37        7.0?         55a         29Y       26       3.70Y
EGYPT              81    43.0b    5809    3j1aw         4.5        31a  358  26a    44         840       gg8       34         9.8a         838         43        19      15.008
GREECE             76     9.3   4,140       2.9  "     10.6b       37   26   21       ---      97by      ---       29b        6.2?         ---         79b4      27b7    17.85bY
IRAN               79    36.9      -         7- 5,7ay  14.1ay      ---   ---   ---    50      10180      ---       32a                     - -         4480      748      49587
IRAQ               79    12.6   2,710       4,3ay       6.9ay      ---   ---   ---    ---    1O0Y        ---        28       ---           ---         45ay      297       9.305Y
tRELAND            81     3,4b  4,480    6438y         11.88Y      ---   ---   _--   98        93        94        29        ---           98          81        14      11.00
JORDAN             81     2.2b  1,420b    4.9"          10.2       19   44   18       70b     0n8'       85         32        7.2          91          82'       25      19.00
LEBANON            79     2.3      ---     --          1 1.66a8y    ---   ---   ---    ---     96        ---        19       ---           ---         46x       ---     27.89aV
MOROCCO            80    19.5      740    6438.         17.5a      36   44   20       28       56ay      35         39       19.7          40          250       21       4.50
OMAN               82     o.94  3,920b    2,582        12.7 ---   ---   ---    30b?           71x       65        25        ---           86          11        14      ...
PORTUGAL           79     9.89  2,060       3.6        22.2        50   28   11      78        97        20        198       12.8           8          45X      178       8.30'
ROMANIA            78    22.1  27100        3,9by       6.2Y 5'       -   ---   ---   98      106b'     ---        23b       ---           98          84bk     22b      10.60bY
SPAIN              76    37.0   4,920       2.1Y       16.8y       ___   ___   ---    ---      98bY      ---       29b       ---           ---         67by      ---     24.0(by
SYRIA              78     8.6   1,170       4.4P       10.3        39   25   26      58        87by      80        35b 4      --           68          41by     21b      12.60
TUNISIA            79     6.4   1,130       7.0P       19.0        42   39   18      62b      100x       80        39b       12.8          30          30'       30       6.00
TURKEY             81     4.7b  1,465b    3.1          26.2        ---   ---   ---    73b     118'       908       28         7.9          51          38        20       6.70
YEMEN A.R.         80     6.8      420      5.05      12.0        94    7    7      21b       37        128        38Y      67.0          85           3        20       1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.       82    2z.o      420b    7.6          9.7        63a  14a   8a    53         61        34        25        227,a         46          17        20       2.50
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIES:
NSober of Countries:                    84              94       70   69   67      76        88       64         94        62            72          91       86       85
Range:                                  (1.4-           3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5-    (8-        (15-     (12-        (17-      (1.1-         (6-         (7-       (8-     (0.01-
10.0)         45.0)  94)   46)  36)    99)        1 19)     99)        77)       67.0)         99)         84)      48)      29.0)
QOartileo: Upper:                         5.6          20.8      52   35   21      80        96        79        42        20            85          45        25      10.6
Hedian:                       4.0           15.5     43   27   18       52       83        60         35       12            61          25        21       3.7
Lower:                        3.0           10.5     37   18   13       24       56        35         27        7            40          13        18        1.0
Ouartile  -eviatioo:                      1.1            5.1    7.5  9.0  4.0   23.0       20.5      22.5       7.5       6.4          22.5        15.5      8.5        4.8
Mean:                                    4.5           16.1      46   28   18      53        75        60        36        16            60          31        21       6.9
Standard Deviation:                      1.9            7.4      13   10    7      30        26        25        11        13            27          23         7       7.4
Median:                                   4.0           15.5     43   28   19      53        83        61        35        12            61          25        22       3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                      FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                          A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                          S - MINEISRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
. . .  MAGNITUDE NIL ON NEGLIGIBLE                              B  - DATUM MORE RECENT THAN BASE YEAR                T - MOP AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
?  DATUM QUESTIONABLE                                         N - CURRENT PRICES                                   U - PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
I ENCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                 P - GDP                                              X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STIUDENTS
Y U tNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
Colunns 1 and 2:  World Rank Atlas or IBRD sEssIons.
Comu.-s 3 to 14:  IBRD missiono, Governm.ent sources and/or 1Inesco Statistical Yearbook.
Co=parative Edocatioo  Data are useful in the evaluation of variouo education systems and analyais of relative stages of educatio.al development berweon var-oos
countries. However, on the basis of the present data, cross-national comparison should be approached with great caution. Data presented in the above table have
been collected largely by Bank missions from g-r          t sources; the remainder are staff estimates or data from Unesco.  Efforts have been made to standardize
definitiono and, withio linits, to check the accuracy of the data. Nevertheless, such data are still imperfect in several respects and the Rank is working to
improve then progresively on the occasion of its operational work.  In the oae of these data, the following qualifications should be kept in eind:
(1)  "Education" as defined in the table includes all education and training, both formal and  on-fnrmal.
(2) "Prieary" education refers to education at the first level and secondary" education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., general, technical, agricultural).
(3) "Literacy rates" (col. 6) are often obtained from country censuses. In many countries they are only approsimatlons and it is doubtful that any uniform
definition of "literate" has been followed consistently.
(4) "Public expenditure in education" (cols. 4 and 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and quasi-public
agencies.
(5)  "Enrollment ratios" (cols. 7, 12 and 14) refer to achool year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-time in the appropriate school,
public and private by level. They are often subject to a wide margin of error In the developing countries owing to variationa in the accuracy of basic
data (i.e., age-specific popola-ion and enrorlsenta).  Enrollrent figures frequently are higher than the nuaber of students actually in school.  Over-aged
students whose inclusion is indicated by footnotes also can inflate the ratios.



-32-
ANNEX 2
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria for Selection of Project Schools and School Clusters
1. All schools in clusters would be at most four hours walking distance
from the cluster resource center school.
2. There are to be 5-12 schools in each cluster depending on the school
density and an average of not less than ten schools per cluster
throughout the country.
3. Each resource center would preferably be located on or near a jeepable
roadway (fair weather) and never more than two-three hours walk from
such a roadway.
4. The resource center school would have a minimum of five grades of
education and enrollment of 100 or more students, or be located with a
potential for such an enrollment.
5. The resource center schools would have adequate land or be able to
acquire such land for a full range of school facilities (garden, outside
soil pits, water, play area and outside teaching posts).
6. School clusters would not extend over district boundaries but can extend
over panchayat boundaries.
7. All school resource centers would be within a half day by road from an
airfield within Nepal.
8. Schools in urban centers and very remote schools would not be included
in the cluster system.
9. Schools which have secondary level grades must also have primary grades.
10. As far as possible school clusters would be closely grouped in districts
in close proximity to regional directorate offices.



-33-                                                                        ANNEX 3
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizafion of the Ministry of Education and Culture
|Otflce of the|
|     minister
Ncit  tion               Off~~~~ivieo Ofiveision              jvo
Manpower &        ~~ssltntMnool                   nvest
IoOnce of tho
I Secretary 
Ofrfice of the 
Examintions  Additionalio Secretaruya
Higher Education                             Planning            Educationt   ueneral
Sub{>tvision                                Dlvision              vision              Division
|Public 9elations                              Buge             Adu Edcto              Admiistrtio
Sub-Division                                Sub-Division           Sub-Division        Sul>Dlvision
UNr    O/NE                                   Edcto                Su-ivso             Marubagemeint
| Manpower &              School
Staishics         Admmnistrctlon
Sub-Divsior.        Sub iiso
Wcrld Bank-25763



NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Office of the Controller of Examinations
|Pertonclo!
Assistont 
Dopsity ContillO|
ot PesminOdtionsAc nt                                                                                otEmraios
esoel                  LoStC                     I _Oo         _        Ortren                        [ioCsn                                            Ins          1        ;ninta                                                                     .
Tension             &   ; ly                  Seliuion                Sen tiOrs  e |       r       lt                      nll         X              rs                   Otdni
suction l    |     5rition                                           lrwo                L Sction           {         Section)      q     L      Setio       |     SPiodOlio SXction
; ; Cottiates                                     Admissiond
tsonsSCsiptS                                     AppliCotloOt
Section                                           Seton
AncsonottScin                     eto
Wield took  25761
4-s



ANNEX 5
35-                                                       Table 1
NEPAL
PRIfRY EDUCATiON PRO.ECT
Bmr Accoaunt bk Project Cowent
(RUPEE Million)
FIELD ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
REGINL EDUCATION               CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
OFFICES                -----____-____-___-          - ------ -
CLRRICULLIJ
PRIMARY   EASTERN   1ESTERN                        TEXTBO                                   Phasical
SCHOOLS AID REOIONAL REGIONAL DISTRICT  MINISTRY OF SWRVISION OFFICE OF THE                 Contingencies
RESOaOCE    OFFICE   OFFICE  EDUCTION EDUCATION DEVELWIENT CNTRLR OF                       -----------
CENITERS  (DHWOTA) (POKARA) OFFICES MMI CILTURE  CENTER   EXAINATIONS STUDIES Total    Z   A*tant
1. INiESTIENT COSTS
A. CIYIL WORKS                                   8.906     4.445    2.401    8.909       1.571      10.208        9.854      -  46.294  10.0  4.&2
S. BUILDING MTERIALS                            22.965         -        -         -          -          -            -       -  22.965  10.0  2.297
C. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                            -          -        -         -      0.110      0.715         O.690      -   1.514  10.0  0.151
D. FURNITURE                                     1.617     0.422    0.223    0.689       0.122       1.633        1.784      -   6.488  10.0  0.649
E. ELUIPI0ET                                     5.085     0,699    0.699    1.301       2,049       9.897        6.424      -  26.153  10.0  2.615
F. EDUCATIONAL MTERIALS
TRAINING MATERIALS                                -         -        -         -          -       1.314           -       -   1.314  10.0  0.131
SCHOOL TEXTS                                      -         -        -         -          -       5.449            -      -   5.449  1D.0  0,545
SUPPLEMNTARY REAING 8ATERIALS                     -         -        -         -          -       1.873            -      -   1.873  10.0  0.187
Sub-Total EDCTIONA  MATERIALS                       -          -        -        -           -      8.636            -       -   8.636 10.0  O.84
B. CENTRAL TRAININS
DAY STUDENTS                                      -         -        -         -          -       0.240           -       -   0,240  10.0  0.024
BDWIS STUDENTS                                   -         -         -        -          -       0,237            -      -   0.237  10.0  0.024
Sub-Total CENTRAL TRAININ                           -          -        -         -          -      0.477            -       -   0.477 10.0  0.048
H. TECU3ICAL ASSISTANCE
FOREIGN ADISERS                                   -         -        -         -      2.483       5,794            -      -   8.277  10.0  0.828
FOREIGN CONILTANTS                                -         -         -        -       1.087      5,437        1.144      -   7,66   10.0  0.767
OVERSE  TRAINING                                  -         -        -         -      3.651       0.243        3.895      -   7.790  10.0  0.779
STUDY TMS                                         -         -        -         -      1.800          -         0.696      -   2.496  10.0  0.2O0
LOAL AISERS                                       -         -        -         -      5.769       1.940            -      -   7.709  10.0  0.771
LOCAL CONTRACTS                                   -         -        -         -          -       4.850        3.324  8.246  16.420  10.0  1.642
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANE                       -          -        -         -     14.791     18.264         9.059   8.246  50.360  10.0  5.036
Total INVEST(ENT COSTS                             38,572     5.566    3.323   108.90      18.642     49.829        27.811  8.246  162.087  10.0  16.289
11J RECURRENT COSTS
A. STAFF SALARIES                               6.000         -        -    2.396       1.473      0.264         1,396      -  11.528  10.0  1.153
B. RE6IONAL AND DISTRICT TRAINING
DAY STUDENTS                                     -         -        -         -          -       1,037        0.034      -   1,071  10.0  0.107
BOARDING STUDENTS                                -         -         -        -          -       1.582        6.356      -   7,938  10.0  0.794
Sub-Total REGIONAL AND DISTRICT TRAINING            -         -        -         -          -       2.619        6.390      -   9.009  10.0  0.901
C. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
BUILDIN6S                                    0.278     0.013    0.023    0.070       0.020      0098         0.118      -   0.619  10.0  0.062
FURNITURE AND EIUIPIENT                      0.478     0.048    0.083    0.129        0,202      0,877        0.677      -   2.493  10.0  0.249
Sub-Total OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE            0.756     0.060    0.106    0.199       0.221       0.975        0.796      -   3.113  10.0  0.311
Total RECURRMENT CSTS                              6.756      0.060    0.106    2.595       1.695      3.857         8.581      -  23.650  10.0  2.365
Total BASELINE COSTS                               45.328      5.626    3.429    13.493     20.337     53.686       36.392  8.246  186.537  10.0  18.654
Phwsical Continrecies                             4.533     0.563    0.343    1.349       2.034       5.369        3.639   0.825  18.654  0.0  0.000
Price Contingencies                              12.641     1.432    0.623    2.902       4.457      11.382        7.626  2.150  43.212  9.1  3.928
Total PROJECT COSTS                                62.501      7.620    4.395   17,744      26.828     70.437        47.65B  11.220 248.402  9.1  22.582
Taxes                                             1.165     0.996    0.526    1.906       0.404      2.830         2.475   1.122  11.424   9.1  1.039
Foreign Exchange                                 39.334     3,522    2.199    6.644      13.990      39.648       20.653  1.108  127.099  9.1 11.554
Februaru 17, 1984 15:58



-36-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Comwonent bu Time
(RUPEE Million)
Total
Base Costs
- - -- -- ------------------------             (USS
84185  85/86  86/87  87/88  88/89   RUPEE   Million)
A. PRIMARY SUH0OLS AND RESOURCE CENTERS                        1.976 10,536 12.012 12,179  8.624   45.328    3.042
D. FIELD ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
1, REGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICES
EASTERN REGIONAL OFFICE (DHANKUTA)                      0.289  0.788  3.217  1.280  0,053    5.626    0.378
WESTERN REGIONAL OFFICE (POKHARA)                       0,531  2,129  0,668  0,042  0.060    3,429    0,230
Sub-Total REGIONAL EDUCATION OFFICES                        0.820  2.917  3.884  1.321  0.112    9.055    0.608
2. DISTRICT EDUCATION OFFICES                               1.761  5,928  3.853  1,328  0.622   13,493    0.906
Sub-lotal FIELD ADWINISTRATIVE OFFICES                         2.582  8.845  7.737  2.649  0.735   22,548    1.513
C. CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES
1. HINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE                        3,773  7.758  3.881  3,321  1.604   20.337    1.365
2, CURRICULUM TEXTBOOK SUPERVISION DEVELOPMENT CENTER   13,314 16,610 11.982  7.207  4.575   53.686    3.603
3. OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER OF EXAMINATIONS                 8.971 13,267  6.661  4,376  3.118   36.392    2.442
Sub-Total CENTRAL ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES                      26.057 37,635 22.523 14.903  9.2%6  110.415    7.410
D. STUDIES                                                         -  2.280  4.123  1.843        -    8.246    0,553
Total BASELINE COSTS                                            30,615 59,296 46,396 31.575 18,655  186,537   12.519
Physical Continrencies                                        3.062  5.930  4.640  3,158  1.865   18,654    1.252
Price Contingencies                                           2.715,10.221 11,800 10.586  74890   43.212    2.900
Total PROJECT COSTS                                             36.39i 75.446 62.835 45.319 28.410  248.402   16.671
Taxes                                                         1,900  4,404  3.232  1,336  0,552   11.424    0.767
ForeMin Exchange                                             17.450 41,065 31.562 23.670 13,352  127.099    8.530
February 17, 1984 15:57



ANNEX 5
-37-                                               Table 3
NUL
PRIVARY EDUCATION PRDJECT
Sumami Account bv Tiwe
Base Costs   Total
Bas Costs                                      + Price    Incl.
(RUPEE Milliion)             Foreign Exchange   Cont. an    Cont.
B-se Costs    fuss
84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88  88/89   Total             Amount  (US$ Million) Million)
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL VOMS                                 9.718 18.277 12.376  5,033 0.891   46,294   40.1   18-568         3.675   4.043
I. EUIUI1  NTERIMLS                           0.365 5.924  5,924  5.94  4.828   22.965  85.1   19.534           1.931    2,124
C. EMSSI(UW  SERVICES                         0.697  0.465 0.281  0.071      -    1.514   10.0    0.151         0.117    0.129
D.  ITf                                       0.845  3.316  1.708  0.504 0.115    6.488  50.1    3.251          0.315    0.566
E. EWIPNW                                     3.744 10,429  6.285  3.137  2.559   26.153   85.1   22.246        2.101    2.311
F. EUATIDIIII IITERIALS
TRAINING MATERIALS                         0.243  0.389  0.227  0.227  0.227    1.314   70.1    0.921        0.107    0.118
SCIIL TEXTS                                1.090  1.090  1.090  1.090  I.M0    5.449   70.1    3.820         0.449   0.494
SUPFLEINTARY READINB MATERIALS             0.487 0.973  0.414      -      -    1,873   70.1    1.313         0.145   0.159
S*-Total EDUCATIOIL  ATERIALS                 1.820  2.452  1.730  1.317  1.317    8.636   70.1    6.054        0.701    0.771
S. CEMTRL TRAINING
DAM  STUENTS                               0.194     -  0.023      - 0.023    0.240    0.0    0.000          0.018    0.020
WINGE STUDENTS                             0.047  0.047  0.047  0.047  0.047    0.237    0.0    0.000        0.020    0.022
Sub-Total CENTRiY  TRAINING                   0.242  0,047  0.070 0.047  0.070    0.477    0.0    0.000         0.038    0-042
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTMICE
FIIREIB  ADVISERS                          2.483  2.897  1.655  1.241     -   8.277   85.1    7.040          0.647    0.712
FOREION CUNlILTMiTS                        2.061  1.525  2.069  2.012     -   7.668  85.1    6,523           0.612    0.673
DORSA  TRAININ                             0-974  2.921  1.704  2-191     -   7.790   85.1    6.626          0.627    0.689
STIRY TInE                                 0.638  1.220  0.638     -      -   2.496   85.1    2-123          0.193    0.212
LAL AWISERS                                1.506  1.623  1.623  1.478  1.470   7,709  10.0    0.774          0.641    0.705
LCAL COWTRACTS                             2.120  3.915  5.758  3.235  1.392   16.420   10.0    1.649         1.356    1.492
Sub-Total TECHIIICl ASSISTANCE                9.783 14.101 13.447 10.158  2.870  50.360   49.1   24.737         4.076    4.484
Total  MESTNW  COSTS                            27.214 55.011 41.820 26.192 12.650  162.887  58.0   94.541        13.154   14-469
11 RECIRNT COSTS
A. STAFF SLARIES                             1.687  2.460  2.460  2.460  2.460   11.528    0.0    0.000        0.970   1,067
1. RESIONIAL AN DISTRICT TRAINING
PAY STU8ENTS                              0.126  0.234  0.239  0-234  0.239    1.071    0.0    0.000        0.090    0.100
DI16  STUDEiTS                            1.588  1.58   1.588  1.588  1.588    7.938    0.0    0.000       0.662    0.728
Sub-Total RESIONAL AND DISTRICT TRAININ6     1.714  1.821  1.826  1.821  1.826    9.009    0.0    0.000        0.753    0.828
C. WERATIONS AIID AINTDWNE
BUILDINBS                                     -      - 0.013  0.178 0.429    0.619   40.0    0.248          0.056    0.062
FRUITtf AN E9UIPENT                           - 0.003  0.277  0.924  1.289    2.493   60.0    1.496         0.223    0.245
Sub-Total  PRTIONS IAD MAINME CE                 - 0.003  0.290  1.101  1.718    3.113   56.0    1.744         0.280    0.308
Total IECLlMT COSTS                            3.401  4.285  4.576  5.383  6.004   23.650    7.4    1.744         2.002   2.202
Total DASELIIE COSTS                             30.615 59.296 46.396 31.575 18.655  186.537   51.6   96.285       15.156   16.671
ic                                             3      5.930  4.640  3.15t_J65            -3_5j  9*62   =:.
Price Cantinreniej                             2.715 10.221 11.800 10.586  7.990   43.212   49.0   21.186
Total PROJECT COSTS                              36.391 75.446 62.935 45,319 28.410  249.402   51.2  127.099       15.156   16.671
Twses                                          1.900  4.404  3.232  1.336 0.552   11.424    0.0    0.000             -   0.767
Foreijn Exehwte                               17.450 41.065 31.562 23.670 13.352  127.099    0.0    0.000            -   8.530
Febrwry 17. 1984 15155



-38-
ANNEX 6
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Procurement Plan
(US$ million)
F'rocurement    Method
Project Element                                               Total
Cost
ICB      LCB    Other       NA
1. Civil Works                  1.71    2.33    0.00    0.00    4.04
1.57    1.87    0D.00    0.00 3.. 44
2. Building materials
and furniture                1.92    Q.57    0.20    0.00    2.69
1.92    0.45    0.13    0.00    2.51
3. Equipment, books
and journals                 1.21    0.30      .80    O.0    2. 031
1.21    0.24    0.76    0.00    2.22
4. Professional services
and project studies         0.00    0.00    0.88    0.00    0.86
0.00   CO. 0o    0. E88    0.00    0. .88
5. Technical assistance
local consultants           0.00    0.00    3.73    0.00    3.73
and misc. costs            C0).00    0.00    2.03    0.00    2.03
6. Educational
materials                   0.00    0. 49    0.28    0.00    0.77
0.00    0.39    0.18    0.00    0.57
7. Staff salaries,
allowances, training        0.00    0.00    0.00    2.24    2.24
and operating costs         0.00    0.00    0.00    1.13    1.13
TOTAL /1               4.85    3.69    5.89    2.24   16.67
4.71    2.95    3.99    1.13   12.,78
Figures underlined are the amounts financed by the Credit
/1 Totals do not add due to rounding



-39-
ANNEX 7
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
(US$ million)
 -             - ---- ------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
IDA Fiscal Year                 ExpenditLIres                   Disbursements
and Semester
Semester   Cumulative          Semester   Cumulative
1985
1st. (Jul.84-Dec.84)            0.26            0.26            0.19           0.19
2nd. (Jan. 85-Junu 85)         0.80            1.05            0.59            0. 78
1986
1st.(Jul.85-Dec.85)             1.45            2.50            1.04           1.81
2nd.(Jan.86-Jun.86)             2.09            4.59            1.52           3.33
1987
lst.(Jul.86-Dec.86)             2.43.           7.02            1.87           5.20
2nd.(Jan.87-Jun.87)             2.37            9;.39           1.95            7.15
1988
lst.(Jul.87-Dec.87)             2.05           11.43            1.88           9.03
2nd. (Jan.86-Jun.8e)            1.61           13.04            1.56          10.60
1989
1st.(Jul.86-Dec.8B)             1.16           14.20            1.25          11.85
2nd. (Jan.89-Jun.89)            0.00           14.20            0.93           12.78



-40-
ANNEX 8
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Indicative Implementation Schedule 1/
FISCAL YEAR:)              F.Y.84           F. Y. 85         F.Y.86           F.Y.87           F,Y. 88          F. Y. 89         F.Y.90           F.Y91q
CALENDAR YEAR:       C. Y. 93         C.V.64           C IY. as         C.Y.86           C. Y. 8          C.Y.8            C. Y. 9          C.Y. so
QUARTER,:(   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1  2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1 '2   3   4 
MONTH:! JFM ARJ JAS OND JFK ANJ JAS OND JFM AKJ JAS ONO JFM AKJ JAS ONO JFK AMJ JAS OND JFK AMJ JAS OND JFK AKJ JAS ORD JFK ANJ JAS OND
(1)   FRINARY    S H O S- - - - - C- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - ---- - - - - - - -
Physical facilities --- )l  I((((                        CC!CCC:C        CEMICCEJE  I      CCICCC  i       CCCCC:C        i l i i                       i       i
Physical facilities --- )   i l i t I i Ieici                            CCICCC(C  CCC(   i lCC(ccc)c   i :cic I CCCC(C                        i i          t I 
Training phase I ----                    I                     :o 1 l   a o     la go) al al! a lo   0  la) a:  o lo a!  aola a!  alol a[ bala   a loa a  a loa a!t la a
Training phase 2---I                            I                 laab : ol loaa   olo  ol   a  a!ao  ) 0a;a a)oloa  l    l  a     ;oa a:    ia l  aaba    l  aaoai)a 0
Phys. facil.phase I ---:  1 i   i++b+;.. l..    CbcCCICC-                           ---     ;---l---l--i   :  I                        i     i     i i i i
Phys. facil.phase 2 ---l         bIb)   1:                    I      1.+..44     C:CcCbcCC1CCClCC-l--- !--- --- l--   ;                                     l        i
Recruitment-------            ll        :    aaaloooloaalaoo(   I         :                                                                                  
Training warkshiaps ----b                                      gaol  1 1       laaal   oo    local   baaao:l          l l l                l                          i
Rhys. facil.phase l---:    i                       4+14+4.. 1:..   C;CCC;CCC(CCC;CC!-b-- --- I---- i-i                    I i              I   i :   i          I
Phys. facil.phase 2--- b                 I i    i i   l+..++..+  ClCCClCCCICCC:CC-t ---b1---:--b-                         I   I                               
(5)    lGEC-- - - - - - - - -  - - -  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - -- - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - -   - - - -  - - - - - - - -
Physicalifacilities--                                 (CICICb
Foreign specialists ---l                          loaoocooclololoaoaacoolabo(olcooooo
Local speciaIi-jst---                I   boaloooboooloool   oloooooolclocoobaboooobolooocoololoo 
Recruiitment PlIUstaff-!         l ooolooolooolooo:(oaal          I        I            (                             I                                       
Traifain;PIU staAf ----)    I                Ic  1 loolocol                             :         1 1 1 11  :         Ib          I        t 1          t     
Administrative plan ---I             I                local        I   loco!             coo1  l         (  lcc:          lcal                 ;                      i
Study tours -----                    I    oobaoooloaaloooloooloaaalooalooclooalaooIa(                        1 1 1            1              
(b     T D  - -- - - - - - - --l - - - - --    - - - - -- - - - - - -- - -  - - --S-    - - - - - -- - - - - - -  -- - - -  - - -- - - - - -  - -- - - -  - ---- -   - - - 
Phyiyocal facilities ---b                1444(4I.. 4...4...1   icCCICCC(ccciccc(ccc(c(cCCC(CCC(cccIccc(ccc: -  --  --(    -1 1                               
Foreign speciaklists --- l  :            I            Iooo(100oool   laolaol           looococal        lolccc(oo          b(lI  t1 ((b                ; 1
Local specialists ----           I   I   I  I   I         loolocal00    I   looclocal   I    coobooa          ooaol     ocaa    I   ;   I   I   I      : I 
Design study -----I             I i     I   I   ( oooloool                    :(( l     l ( ( l ( ( ( l ( o ( ( ( I l l b(:                                f   1i
Training CTSDC staff--!                     I):   II      loco;                       (((1(1)1))    (:III(bb                                        Ill1
Materials development-!    I  I   (   (           I   (   (oooaooob    (    ooobooo(ol (  00:olooo(coc   (ac lao a(o o ocI b(llIl    (   (   ( 
(7     E  -- - - - -- - - - --  - - -- -  - - -- -  - - -- - - - --   - - - -- - - -  -- - - - -- - -   - -- - - - -- - - -  -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - ---    - - - 
Physicil facilities ---l     I       1   (41...4(4441+l   ICCC(CCCIECC:C(CClccclCCCCCCC(cccI--- l--- (--- b---(    I                           1 1 1 r 
Foreign specialists ---I     I    IIIIIIIIII                           1     Go!o)      ; Oa!         o    1   1 o      1                1     1     1   1   1
Local specialists---    I            I   IIl loc(ooclcocaloo(ololoocoaclolola(aocoaolclololcccaocbobal
Trainioig CE staff----b    I     i     i   1      (   ( 1     1   (0ca    I   I   gaold     Illo ol   lbloaol  l 1lonloool                                  l    i
ID)  T D E    - - - - - -- - -      - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - --  - - -  - - -- - - - - -- - -  - - - -- -  - - --- -   - - 
School survy ------1           1     (1           1  loolcolcalo      blogobolo          Iooloca(aI1      Do     loo!   ;oI 1    IIIIII)                        1 
Evaluation ------                            I        oooonocooooaogoololclo)olc(clolccooooooaaoocooo 
--setup data systet--!    I          I   I   I   !o0olocol   I   I   I                                1                             
--evaluatioa reports--!    I   i 1         1   1      1   :   cac                oo(01   1                       (aa      10: 1 lau!   1   I   lana)    1   1   boo)t  i
Teacher education---             1 1  1   1   1   1    1         1     locolocal                                                               :                     i
Project preparation --- )    1 1 i 1                     I  I   lllllooloooloolcoo  Iooo(cloooalaac      I   I        I                                       
I JFK AKJJASDND JFK AfUmDNOJFRMJ  JAS              (ND  JFKAKJ  JAS  ORDJFK  AKJJAS  ONO JF  AKJJAS   ONOJFKAKJ  JAsaND  JFK  AKJJAS   DK
APPRAISAL DATE                         I          i i    I                                    ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN    ... ... ...
NEGOTIATIONIS                                                                                 C ONSTRUCTION             CCC ccc CCC
BOARD PRESENTATION DATE1                                                                       MNE    EIO               -    -    -
EFFECTIVENESS DATE         --                            K                                     THER ACTIVITIER           0 coo coo c
CREDIT CLOSING DATE ---------------------------------    ------------   ------                                                    -          -----------
1/Subject to revision after the initial Design Study and subsequent implementation experience.



-41-
ANNEX 9
NEPAL
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Ptlmary Educatbon
Structure of Project Management
Implementation                   Ministry of
Board                         Finance
Works JActoun
[Y,~~~I /__  C                                                      I N.
z~~~~~~~    I      "                                               x
;I/  |   /  |    /    |       Building          Equipment
. / I                   /             I             / I Contractors   Suppliers
,'                                                           I /  /1 
UniM     Lin AuLh j
I?egional & District
Educatlon Offices                  
Legend:
I   -         ~~~~~MOEC Lirne Authority
FieldCoordinas  |                                                     Project Authority
World Bank-25762



-42-
ANNEX 10
NEPAL
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Technical Assistance
Table 1 Educational Services
UNICEF Reponsibility
(minimum staff years)
PIU     CTSDC       MOEC       TOTAL
Foreign Specialists             2.0      6.0          -         8.0
Local Specialists                -      10.0          -        10.0
Overseas Training               1.0      0.5         4.5        6.0
Local Training                   -       3.5 la       -         3.5
Overseas Visits                  -        -          1.5        1.5
/a  Early training of trainers only.
Table 2  Other Services
PIU Responsibility
(minimum staff years)
PIU     SBU      NEC     OCE      TOTAL
Foreign Consultants                                      0.5       0.5
Local Consultants              52.0    60.0      9.5             121.5
Overseas Training                                2.0     8.0      10.0
Overseas Visits                 0.5              0.5      0.75     1.75



-43-
ANNEX 11
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Staff of the PIU
Appointment
1.  Project director                     Prior to negotiations
2.  Evaluator/planning officer and       Date of effectiveness
deputy project director
3.  Project architect                    Prior to negotiations
4.  Representative of the                Date of effectiveness
Controller of Examinations
5.  Representative of the                Date of effectiveness
Chief of CTSDC
6. Accountant
7. Procurement officer



-44-
ANNEX 12
NEPAL
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Working Papers
1. Project Design Philosophy
2. Training and Training Materials
3. Strengthening Educational Administration
4. Consultant's Report on the OCE
5. Project Evaluation
6. Project Management
7. UNICEF Technical Assistance - Project Agreement
8. Physical Facilities
9. Architectural Worksheets
10. Cost Tables



IBRD 17639R
12-                                                                                 SI-                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 19841
|  5 " -'                 C          H                     N          A                                                                               NEPAL
H   A                              H U M L A   ''                                                                                                                     PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
#2DARECHULA                   1                                    \
'N                                                                                                              (o~ J  t   >   X  >  I<ski   Proiect distrncts
j  A J H A PJ             (    4         -                           . -                                                                                                              Protect oite-
IBAI TA D    J BAJ UIr A X   M  U G  U           ,                                                                                                               _   Selected  highways
A I T _,A D I \  -R-                                             ,                                                                                                                           'I    ---- Rivers
.1.                 A                            -r-'                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~/"  9    Notioal cop,tol
V          '                                        v L A  i\                                                                                                                                  RgLon,al heo.dqucrters
eD40ELPHUR A    S DC T I                                                                                                                                                                                        S.1 "fJU           )OSled  towns
to >    ff   ;,   ACHHAM   " A, LhT                                         C D    L P A            \        j                                                                            - --  District bosec.r en
t vi ', 4 ,(xAN   I; AN. ~              ~A"A$           AH    -       rf          c                                                            K.\                                                        -----  - Zonol boon       d -enes
JAJAK AsIOr i                                                                                                                        '            International bo-ridaries
KAI A L                                                  - , f                                     ,t YI A 
Sre               ' iU                    C Z  \  Surkhet    0~' ~   ~   ~   /   Yt @    ^ k     M A N A r Gu Ks   t              r
CARD  VA   V   COCOs'          '-K            N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   A                           'C
4  -                                                         5  6  A  N  6                          2~~~~~~~~~A 
5  IBA R [  Y A                   I   A I  A N   '              ~                M>yS       D1)    /        -- 
-                  P     A,     RiDi P  S L CA              '                          A C         D          DA  C1 /K
,                            ,       9      C-LN          ACCAT)                   AMJUNG A  T            f G K<
_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ART                                                                             Lt A\i. HtA  &i    I PASJYV N G tf>
21'                      'I                                  ''--     F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--n
PY JT H At                                                                      PAS                                                                             \  _A
I  N  D      |         A                                 t          wAgTAHATj               -                .1 (9   a  ,_-CXkuta) ,<~~A 1, )4 
K ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~     ~          n LOETR O  20  40~                                                                         sAc OU 10 IJ  o  4 D_ A    T                          frHf\51/    ) I     /J1A   M ~            g       . 2
MILES ~ ~      ~         ~        ~        ~         N O-0" C20  40  BD BO  10                                                                                                             N   9
<DM31155       20     40pr7.   Th D  SDomntfn  use3 Fnd 1hr     toOd    slhowno on                                                                                                                                                                              MCAt.                     / o o
IOnh 'is toe Ssp,nna,z Te oCpTiu-rAioodOo1e nAstoemaondunnseiCorp r/uIns convr'nt '/'" {
F,n 4'ii  3DsCO/Oi// r faa OC/oond0ryor  used and  tise   no ordornno soon  5ur,5 OtOrdo not
97 i//' s                                                                                                                                       aO44 iis8bvig
12'                                                5/'                                                                      t"'                                                                      so'~~~no  



