OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUNBER 1463 NEP
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Education Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVEIOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMER 1463 NEP
DEVELOPMENT REDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1984, between
THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL (herein  te    11ed the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  by agreement dated March 30, 1984 (hereinafter called
the UNICEF Project Agreement), the UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND
(hereinafter call the UNICEF) has agreed to make a grant (herein-
after called the UNICEF GRANT) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount of $1,700,000 to assist in financing the foreign
exchange cost of the technical assistance required for carrying
out Parts D and E of the Project, and in financing the technical
assistance required for carrying out Parts A (i) (b), B (ii) (a),
B (ii) (c) and B (ii) (d) of the Project on the terms.and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable  to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and-the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "MOEC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture;
(b) "NEC" means the National Education Committee estab-
lished and operating pursuant to the Borrower's National Educa-
tion Committee Act, 1971;
(c) "OCE" means the Office of the Controller of Examina-
tions established within MOEC;
(d) "CTSDC" means the Curriculum, Textbook, Supervision
Development Center established within MOEC;
(e) "Project Implementation Board" means the board to be
established pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(f) "Project Implementation Unit" and the acronym "PIU"
mean the unit to be established pursuant to Section 3.05 of this
Agreement;
(g) "Resource Center School" means the center to be
established under Part A of the Project for purposes of providing
to the respective Cluster of Schools, inter alia, in-service
training, supervision   system, and   operation  and   management
support;
(h) "Resource   Center  Management   Committee"  means  the
committee to be established at each Cluster of Schools pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.07 of this Agreement;
(i) "Cluster of Schools" means a group of about 8 to 12
primary education level schools which are serviced by a Resource
Center School;
(j) "School   Management  Committee"  means  the  committee
established by each local community within the Project Area for
purposes of maintaining community support for the provision and
maintenance of the school within its area of influence; and
(k) "Project Area" means the Borrower's       administrative
districts of Dang, Dhankuta, Jhapa, Kaski, Surkhet and Tanahun.


﻿3I
ARTICLE II
S  The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twelve million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such  later date as the Association shall establish.         The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at thie rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of  the  Credit  in  semiannual  installments  payable  on   each
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 1994, and ending Janu-
ary 1, 2034, each installment to and including the installment
payable on January 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter )
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate edu-
cational, administrative and financial practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project sub-
stantially in accordance with an implementation schedule satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out Parts A (i) (a), A (ii), B (i), D, E, G (ii) and H of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such ,consultants to be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of


﻿Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B
(ii) (e) and G (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
architects whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association,
such architects to be selected in accordance --ith principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
C')in August 1981.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A
(i) (b), B (ii) (a), B (ii) (c), B (ii) (d), D and E of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, provided, however, that the con-
sultants to be employed pursuant to the provisions of this para-
graph for assisting in the carrying out of Parts D and E of the
Project, shall be different from those employed for assisting in
the carrying out of such Parts of the Project pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
t)         rower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ-
ed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. For purposes of ensuring a timely execution of
the Project and adequate coordination among the agencies and de-
partments of the Borrower participating in the carrying out of
*     the Project, the Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, main-
tain a Project Implementation Board with such powers, functions,
responsibilities and representation as shall be required for the
purposes.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter,
maintain, within the'Office of the Secretary of MOEC, a Project
Implementation Unit, headed by an officer with suitable qualifi-
cations and experience, such Unit to be assigned, at all times,
with such powers, functions, responsibilities, staffing and funds
as shall be required to enable it to organize and administer
education projects in Nepal, including the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, prior to the establish-
ment of a particular Cluster of Schools, est.blish and, there-
after, maintain a Resource Center Management Committee, such
Committee to be assigned, at all times, with such powers, func-
tions, responsibilities and representation as shall be required
to enable it to manage the Resource Center School concerned.
Provided, however, that, in consultation with the Association,
the above-mentioned obligation to maintain the Resource Center
Management Committee may terminate on the basis of the findings
and recommendations of the evaluation provided for in Section
3.08 of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, prepare and furnish to
the Association, for its approval, full working drawings and
specifications for the buildings and related facilities under
Part B (ii) (e) and G (i) of the Project, and, thereafter, the
Borrower shall carry out such Parts of the Project in accordance
with said working drawings and specifications, as so approved.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) evaluate the adequacy of the organizational structure
of MOEC regional and district offices, including staff and
budgetary requirements, for providing a cost effective imple-
mentation of the Borrower's policy to decentralize its education
system;
(b) not later than July 1, 1987, furnish to the Associa-
tion, for its review and comments, the results and recommenda-
tions of such evaluation together with a draft comprehensive plan
for the improvement of the Borrower's primary education and its
administration; and
(c) thereafter, taking into account the Association's com-
ments, if any, take all such action as shall be necessary to


﻿-7-
implement the said recommendations, and adopt and utilize such
comprehersive plan.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Sec-
tion 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower undertakes:
(a) to select suitably qualified candidates from the educe-
tion cadre of MOEC for training under the Project;
(b)   to retain, until the completion of the Project, all
CTSDC and PIU staff trained under the Project; and
(c)   to use its best efforts to, upon completion of the
Project and based on the actual needs of its Primary Education
Sub-sector as well as on the quality of the work performed,
appoint, within such Sub-sector, as regular staff and at adequate
levels of seniority, the temporary staff hired for carrying out
the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
ti.on, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i)      maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.11. The Borrower undertakes to carry out, or cause
to be carried out, the development of the Sano Thimi campus
located near Kathmandu, in accordance with the Master Plan. For
purposes of this Section, the term "Master Plan" means the plan
prepared by the Borrower, in a manner and substance satisfactory
to the Association, for the development of the Sano Thimi campus.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire all such land and rights in respect
of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisi-
tion, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one yqar after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which


﻿-9-
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examinetsuch records.
(c)  The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expendi-
tures and recordo referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. the Borrower shall:
(a) promptly upon receipt of .the appropriate applications,
issue or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be
required for goods to be imported for the carrying out of the
Project;
(b) make available, or cause to make available, promptly as
needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and
(c) with respect to locally produced materials which are
subject to allocation, make, or cause to be made, allocations of
such materials promptly and in such quantities as shall be
required for the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, thit:


﻿- 10 -
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this section, the right
of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Agree-
ment providing therefor;
(b) paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such grant; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph    (d) thereof, namely, that the      event
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of such
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that all conditions of effectiveness of the UNICEF Pro-
ject Agreement, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement,
if that be the case, have been duly fulfilled;
(b) that the Borrower has established the Project Imple-
mentation Board pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of
this Agreement;
(c) that the Borrower has established the PIU pursuant to
the provisions of Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and has duly
appointed to the PIU, in a manner and substance satisfactory to
the   Association,  the   following  staff:   an  architect,   an
examination specialist from OCE, an& an education officer from
CTSDC; and


﻿(d)  that the Borrower has furnished to the Association, in
a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, the work-
ing drawings and specifications for the buildings and related
facilities referred to in Parts B (ii) (e) and G (i) of the Pro-
ject.
Section 6.02. The date,                     , 1984 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12,04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The provisions of Sections 3.11 and 5.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty's Government
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:                       Telex:
ARTHA                               2499 NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable:                           Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto  duly authorized, hav6 caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Aisa


﻿Api
-13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of"the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to 4ach Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
4mount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                2,950,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local ex-
penditures
(2) (a) Building               2,150,000        100% of foreign
materials and                         expenditures, 80%
furniture                             of local expendi-
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 65%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(b) Equipment,            1,900,000        100% of foreign
vehicles,                             expenditures, 80%
books and                             of local expendi-
journals                              tures (ex-factory
cost) and 65% of
local expendi-
tures for other
items procured
locally


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(c) Educational             530,000        80% of local ex-
and other                             penditures (ex-
consumable                            factory cost) and
materials                             65% of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) (a) Technical                830,000        100% of local
assistance                            expenditures
for Parts
A (i) (a),
A (ii),
B (i), D
and E of
the Project
(b) Technical               760,000        100%
assistance for
Part G (ii)
of the
Project
(4) Professional                 750,000        100%
services under
Parts B (ii) (e)
and G (i) of
the Project, and
studies under
Part H of the
Project
(5) Salaries and                 970,000        FY 1985: 100%
allowances for                             FY 1986: 100%
incremental staff,                         FY 1987: 85% and
Project operating                          FY 1988: 20%
costs and train-
ing
(6) Unallocated                1,260,000
TOTAL               12,100,000


﻿-15-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "incremental staff" means the Borrower's
additional staff employed after January 1, 1984 for purposes of
carrying out the Project; and
(d) the term "FY" means the Association's fiscal year,
commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 330,000, may be made in respect of Categories 1, 3, 4 and 5
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after January 1, 1984.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet


﻿- 16 -
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation's reasonable opinion,. represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a) achieve a low cost qualitative improvement of the
Borrower's primary education; and
(b) strengthen the administrative and technical capacity of
the Borrower's Education sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(i) Establishment of about 70 Resource Center Schools in
the Project Area, including (a) the construction,
operation and maintenance of adequate buildings and
facilities, and (b) provision of educational and train-
ing materials and equipment.
(ii) Rehabilitation and improvement of about 700 primary
school buildings in the Project Area.
Part B:
(i) Strengthening   of  the  policy  making  and  long-term
planning activities of MOEC and NEC through the carry-
ing out of research in policy analysis.
(ii)  Strengthening of the administrative capacity of the
Borrower's Education sector through, inter alia, the:
(a) provision of training to MOEC staff for, inter
alia,   effective planning, budgeting and human
resource management systems, and in organizing and
administering of education projects in Nepal;
(b) implementation of the Borrower's education decen-
tralization policy;
(c) restructuring of the organization of CTSDC;
(d) development of an appropriate data resource system
for monitoring and evaluatioq;


﻿-18-
(e) construction, operation and maintenance of ade-
quate facilities for CTSDC at Sano Thimi campus;
(f) construction, operation and maintenance of ade-
quate buildings and facilities for about four
district offices of MOEC in four of the six
districts in the Project Area, and of about two
regional offices of MOEC at Pokhara and Dhankuta;
and
(g) provision of adequate office space and facilities
for the PIU.
Part C:                                                                     Q
Implementation of an appropriate training program to achieve
the objectives of the Project for, inter alia, the school's
head masters, managers, community leaders, and teachers
working within each cluster of Schools, and for the Cluster
of Schools' supervisory staff, district education officers,
PIU staff and CTSDC staff.
Part D:   Monitoring and evaluation of Project related activi-
ties.
Part E:   Provision of technical assistance to the PIU for the
overall implementation of the Project.
Part F:   Provision of professional services for:
(i) carrying out Part B (ii) (e) of the Project; and
(ii) carrying out Part G (i) of the Project.
Part G:
(i) Construction, operation and maintenance of an adequate
building for the specialized activities of OCE at Sano
Thimi  campus,   including  furnishing  and   equipment
thereof.
(ii) Evaluation and improvement of the examination system
currently implemented by OCE.


﻿-19-
Part H:   Studies related to possible future education projects
in Nepal.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿.                                              - 20-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case Tay be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for civil work contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more each shall be pre-qualified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the'sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿-21-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement o goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of th s Schedule, goods manufactured in Nepal
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nepal
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Nepal equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such gooda.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
(V         delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿-22-
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
1.   With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 1 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Associaion, a particular firm
or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidd-
ing documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of
bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $800,000 each or less, may be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally, in accordahce with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿-23-
2.   Contracts for the purchase of furniture estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 each or less, may be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for purchase of building materials, equipment and
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 each or
less, may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, provided, however, that in the aggregate such pro-
curement shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000.
4.   Contracts for purchase of educational materials and consum-
able materials for laboratories, workshops and offices may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Items referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above estimated
to cost the equivalent of . $30,000 each or less, up to an
aggregate amount of $550,000 equivalent, may be procured through
prudent shopping on the basis of at least 3 price quotations from
different sources.
6.   Books and instructional printed materials may be purchased
directly from publishers or authorized distributors at the lowest
quoted price.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, and with respect to all
contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding doct-sents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿-24-
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines *or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be' inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿e
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of 2       ,
1984.
FOR SECRETARY


