Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23330
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36850)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR
THE EIGHTH HIGHWAYS PROJECT
FEBRUARY 20, 2002
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC7C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 27, 2001)
Currency Unit = Guarani
I Guarani = US$ 0,000214
US$ 1 = 4660 Guaranis
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CONAVI              National Housing Council
CORPOSANA          Municipal authority of sewage and water services in Asunci6n
DINATRAN            National Transportation Directorate
DPP                 DRH's Department of Planning and Projects
DRH                 Directorate of Highways
EU                  MOPC's Environmental Unit
FONPLATA            Fondo para la Cuenca de la Plata
GoP                 Government of Paraguay
HDM                 Highways Design&Maintenance Standards Model
IBRD                International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDB                 Inter-American Development Bank
IERR                Internal Economic Rate of Retum
IRI                 International Roughness Index
JBIC                Japan Bank for International Cooperation
MOPC                Ministry of Public Works and Communications
MTR                Mid-term Review
OPIT                Transport Planning Office
PPF                World Bank's Project Preparation Facility
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SETAMA              Metropolitan Transportation Secretary
SIAMV               Integrated Road Maintenance Management System
USecPWC             Undersecretariat of Public Works and Communications
UsecT               Undersecretariat of Transport
UsecA&F             Undersecretariat of Administration and Finance
Vice President  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Myrna L. Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:  Jose Luis Irigoyen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Paulus A. Guitink



PARAGUAY
HIGHWAYS VIII
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                 13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                16
9. Partner Comments                                                               18
10. Additional Information                                                        19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              26
Annex 4. Bank. Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Annex 8. Log Frame: Mid-Term Review                                               31
Annex 9. Map of Project Components                                                34
Annex 10. Project Evaluation by the Borrower                                      35






Project ID: P007913                                      Project Name: Eighth Highway Project
Team Leader: Paulus A. Guitink                           TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: February 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Eighth Highway Project                        LIC/TFNumber: CPL-36850
Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TH - Highways
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   01/30/1990                            Effective: 07/20/1994
Appraisal: 06/12/1992                               MTR: 06/23/1997
Approval:  12/21/1993                             Closing: 06/30/1999         06/15/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MOPC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma Alexander                           A. Sanchez
Sector Manager:      Jose Luis Irigoyen                       Ping-Cheung Lok
Team Leader at ICR:  Paulus A. Guitink                        William Matthey
ICR Primary Author:  Paulus A. Guitink
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was the first Bank-assisted operation in Paraguay's Transport Sector since 1982. Its
development objectives aimed to: (a) strengthen the Ministry of Public Works and
Communications organization; (b) improve its capacity to construct roads and to maintain them;
(c) relieve urban problems or reduce the environmental hazards and the nuisance caused by the
frequent flooding along Asunci6n's ringroad; (d) facilitate the use of the ports of Villeta and San
Antonio to increase exports; (e) reduce the transportation costs of exporting soybeans to Brazil;
(f) improve environmental assessment skills of MOPC's Environmental Unit (EU); and (g) assist
MOPC in establishing a National Vehicle Registry.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised during implementation. However, project impact, outcome
and output were detailed specifically during the preparation of a logical framework at project
mid-term review to monitor project performance and risks. The project matrix is presented in the
annexes.
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objectives described above, the project included the following components: 1.
Road Improvement. This component comprised the improvement of key national road links: (i)
58.6 km of roads of Route 1 in the southern access to Asunci6n from Paraguari to Ita and from
Ita to Cuatro Mojones; (ii) 12.3 km of the Asunci6n's ringroad from Cuatro Mojones to Route 9
widened to four lanes, including construction of three overpasses, rehabilitation of three main
at-grade intersections, and improvement of two main storm-drain canals; and, (iii) 17 km of roads
of Route 3 paved in the northern access to Asunci6n from Limpio to Emboscada; 2. Road
Rehabilitation. This included the resurfacing of 100 km of Route 6 from the junction with Route
7 to km 100 South of the junction; 3. Pilot Soil Stabilization Program. The program consisted
of the improvement of approximately 28 km of unpaved rural roads by applying various types of
soil stabilizers to such roads and monitoring and evaluating the performance of these products; 4.
Consulting Services. This included the provision of consulting services to assist MOPC in the
supervision of civil works, preparation of engineering designs, a study to devise alternatives to
handle the increased flow of water carried by the Ytay and Lambar6 creeks, and a study to
improve accesses to the greater Asunci6n area. The project also included technical assistance
aimed at: (i) strengthening MOPC's organization and management capacity; (ii) establishment of
MOPC's Environmental Unit; (iii) strengthening of the Directorate of Roads and Highways
Department of Planning and Projects; and, (iv) implementation of a National Vehicle Registry.
The project also included provision of equipment required for the implementation of various
technical assistance components.
3.4 Revised Components:
The loan was amended in April 1999 and August 2000, but the original project components were
maintained throughout implementation.  The first amendment included: (i) a downward
adjustment of the percentage of loan disbursements for civil works to secure Bank financing
throughout the project implementation period; (ii) an actualization of local counterpart funds
required to complete the project and the amount of funds stipulated for road maintenance; (iii)
broaden the scope of the unpaved roads stabilization pilot program by "applying stabilizing agents
-2-



to test sections along such roads" and allow direct contracting with qualified suppliers; and (iv)
update project implementation indicators. The second amendment intended to provide incentives
to improve project implementation and included a redefinition of the paripasso and a reallocation
of the loan proceeds to reflect financing demands from different categories.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is marginally satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with the CAS,
which focused on improving the conditions to attract private investment and improving the
efficiency of the public investment to achieve long-term sustainable growth that would enable
Paraguay to remain competitive within the context of MERCOSUR. Because of the long
distances to deep-water ocean ports, transport efficiency is critical to maintain the
competitiveness of Paraguay's exports. The project addressed major transport issues to reduce
congestion to Asunci6n Port, including the diversion of exports to alternative ports such as Villeta
and San Antonio and improving traffic flows along trunk routes providing access to Asunci6n
from the North and the South. In doing so, the project is very relevant to the transport sector of
Paraguay and to the economy as a whole.
However, project design failed to make adequate provision for a number of elements crucial to
successful implementation:
*  Insufficient attention to risk assessment and consequences of risks identified. Although weak
implementation and management capacity for such a large and complex investment program and
shortage of counterpart funds were recognized by the SAR as constituting a major risk in the
short and medium-term, the project design did not incorporate any strategies for mitigating those
risks. While the project included very stringent safeguards to ensure proper management of land
acquisition and resettlement of affected people, the risks for project implementation of having to
comply with these, for the country new requirements, were not identified, a problem that was
aggravated by the weak analysis of the resettlement issues and the low priority given to the
resettlement program. In addition, this was the first project in Paraguay to use the new Bank
standard bidding documents, which resulted in substantial delays because local procurement
practices had to be adapted first;
* The institutional strengthening component of the project was not adequately prepared and as a
consequence implementation of this component took considerable more time than anticipated. On
the other hand, the expectations were overly ambitious for the short timeframe envisaged for the
provision of the technical assistance. The component also suffered from the deteriorating
macro-economic situation which resulted in cancellation of various proposed training activities to
strengthen professional capacity within MOPC;
*    Insufficient attention was given to the design of adequate institutional arrangements for
implementation of the project and no financial resources were allocated to project management,
not even through the use of counterpart resources. Apart from a better institutional framework,
project implementation would have been facilitated by the preparation of an organizational and
operational manual and development of project performance and monitoring indicators. Only
during the Mid-term review in June 1997, adequate project performance and monitoring
-3-



indicators were developed. This problem was caused in part by the limited resources available
through the PPF for the preparation of the project, which affected the quality of the preparation
studies.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of project development objectives is rated satisfactory, despite the two-year
delay at the start of project implementation and the slow implementation progress during the last
two years before the closing date. The original loan closing date of June 15, 1999, was extended
twice. The first extension until December 31, 2000, was included in an amendment given in order
to (i) adjust downward the percentage of loan disbursements for civil works to secure Bank
financing throughout project implementation; (ii) update local counterpart funds required for
completion of the project and the amount of funds stipulated for road maintenance; (iii) broaden
the scope of the unpaved roads stabilization program by "applying stabilizing agents to test
sections along such roads" and allow direct contracting with qualified suppliers, and (iv) update
project implementation indicators. The second extension until June 15, 2001, was given at the
Government's request, to allow completion of the civil works and implementation of MOPC's
institutional component. Despite these delays most of the intended project outputs and outcomes
have been achieved. With regard to Asunci6n's ringroad works, the Government is committed to
the completion of the physical works, which is now estimated to finish in April 2002. An
assessment of each of the development objectives follows.
(a) Strengthening of MOPCs organization. The institutional strengthening of MOPC is rated
satisfactory. Despite implementation delays in hiring the institutional and management consultant
and in implementing the consultant's recommendations, MOPC has implemented most of the
consultant's recommendations and has made progress in increasing its efficiency by: (i) improving
managerial capacity of the Undersecretary of Administration and Finance through upgrading the
information system procedures, streamlining administrative processes for payments of contractors,
and implementing a new government accounting system SIAF; (ii) strengthening of the EU
through training of staff and workshops and improving its organizational structure; (iii) providing
a regulatory framework for transport through the preparation and promulgation of a Transport
Law; (iv) creating a unit to manage resettlement programs; and, (v) initiating the refocusing of the
Directorate of Roads and Highways (DRH) on its core functions through the development of a
strategy for outsourcing maintenance operations. The (DRH) is also designing a road concession
program to expand private sector participation in the financing, operation, rehabilitation and
maintenance of roads. An Inter-American Development Bank (IDB)-supported study identified
811 km of national roads with traffic volumes sufficient to consider conversion into toll roads.
These concessions will provide a total investment of US$400 million over the 25-year concession
period.
As mentioned above, MOPC designed a new Transportation Law with the technical assistance
provided through the project. In September 2000, Congress approved Law 1.590, which
regulates the National Transportation System.  The Law created not only the National
Transportation Directorate (DINATRAN), but also the Metropolitan Transportation Secretariat
(SETAMA).    These institutions, already in operation, are expected to develop policies and
-4 -



regulations for the national and international passenger and goods surface transportation within
the Paraguayan economy. This is an important achievement that will contribute to the
improvement of the transportation sector efficiency.
In addition, the project supported MOPC in the preparation of the final engineering designs to
improve drainage conditions along the Ytai and Lambare creeks. Flooding along these two creeks
is expected to increase as a result of the improved watershed of the drainage works included in
Asunci6n's ringroad improvement.  MOPC is seeking financial support for the required
investments to mitigate these floodings.
Although the technical assistance component has focused on improving MOPC's managerial
capacity, there is still room for improvement. The management study has provided MOPC with
an institutional action plan that contains some activities yet to be carried out. Some of these
activities include the creation of the National Traffic Safety Council, a unit for strategic planning,
and the strengthening of its human resource management which implies creating a performance
evaluation system, rationalization of personnel, designing a new salary scale and improving the
recruitment system. The MOPC is in the process of completing the first two activities. Regarding
the Human Resources action plan, the proposed activities are not within the competence of
MOPC and must be analyzed and implemented within a broader context aimed at a Public Sector
Reform Project.
(b) Improving MOPCs capacity to construct and maintain roads. The objective of improving
MOPC's road construction capacity was achieved satisfactorily. This was demonstrated through
the capacity to implement an ambitious transport investment program for 1998-2001. At
Mid-term review it was expected that MOPC would have increased its road projects spending
considerably, aiming at US$768 million (not including maintenance) over the aforementioned
period. Due to macroeconomic and fiscal restrictions and resulting implementation delays, this
investment program could not be executed as envisaged. However, the level of expenditures was
still much higher than in previous years.
During this period, the actual expenditures averaged about US$63 million per year. In individual
years, expenditures fluctuated from a high of US$91 million in 1999 to a low of US$31 million in
2001. This level of expenditures was generated mainly as a result of the external financing which
included IDB, JBIC, IBRD and FONPLATA projects, showing that MOPC has gradually
increased its capacity to implement when compared to the average US$24 million expenditures
registered over the 1981-1990 period. As per October 2001, MOPC has completed about 1,007
km of road rehabilitation and paving works through externally financed projects.
The objective of improving MOPC's road maintenance capacity was addressed by: (i) increasing
the allocation of funds to secure maintenance continuity: The loan agreement required that the
Borrower provide an annual budget allocation of US$14.2 million with the purpose of securing
the maintenance of national roads, other than the roads rehabilitated or improved by the project.
Although not sufficient to cover all maintenance needs, the Borrower has complied, on average,
with this requirement over the project life, which contributed to the conservation of the most
important part of the national road network; and (ii) the design of a road maintenance model that
- 5-



allows planning, programming and controlling all maintenance activities required to maintain the
highway network Coordination between the Bank and IDB in tackling the maintenance problem
resulted in: (a) IDB technical assistance to develop a management information tool for road
maintenance - the SIAMV model - which is used by the Division of Conservation to estimate
budget requirements, and, (b) assesment of opportunities and constraints to outsourcing of
maintenance: since 1998, the Directorate of Highways has been gradually implementing a pilot
road maintenance program that delegates maintenance to third parties, following
recommendations made by the SIAMV management study. This initiative together with the
concession program under preparation will provide an excellent opportunity to improve efficiency
in maintenance operations, expand their coverage and, potentially, reduce the amount of local
funds needed.
(c) Relieving urban problems or reducing environmental hazards and the nuisance caused by
the frequent flooding along Asuncion 's ringroad. This objective was partially achieved and is
rated satisfactory. The project supported the improvement of four key roads linking southern and
northern access to Asunci6n, including Mime Lynch Asuncion's ringroad. Only three out of the
four road subprojects were fully completed with substantial impact on the southem and northern
accesses of the envisaged transportation system: Paraguari-Ita, Ita-Cuatro Mojones and
Limpio-Emboscada. It is important to mention that the impact of the project on quality of life of
the people living close to the completed works is expected to be substantial.
Asunci6n's ringroad could not be completed fully before the June 15, 2001, the closing date of
the project, which, due to delays in the implementation, included an 18-month and subsequent
51/2-month extension. The approximately three and one-half year total delay resulted from: the
long bidding process, the slow acquisition of land, and the relocation of affected people, all of
which affected the commencement of this complex road.
Another factor that later affected the implementation of the mentioned roads was that the bids
received for It,-Cuatro Mojones road and Asunci6n's ringroad were significantly higher than the
expected cost at appraisal. In addition there were additional cost over-runs for civil works during
the implementation. Main reasons for these cost increases were the poor quality of the design
studies which underestimated costs significantly, as well as the substantial time between
completion of the engineering studies and the start of the works during which rapid urbanization
converted parts of the ringroad area from rural into suburban, requiring additional drainage and
other works. This resulted in an increase in counterpart funds, which jumped to US$71 million
from the originally estimated US$25 million. As a result of this increase, they had problems in
mobilizing the counterpart funds needed on a timely basis since mid-1998. The shortage of local
funds interrupted not only the construction of the ringroad for six months, but also that of the
other roads, especially during the 2000-2001 period. This also happened to other projects in the
road construction sector due to severe fiscal restrictions in the Government of Paraguay (GoP).
The construction of Asunci6n's ringroad (Works III-Mme Lynch) is not only the most complex of
all the civil works under the project, but also will be the one to make a substantial impact on
improving road access to Asunci6n. As of October 2001, there has been an implementation
progress of 85.5% of the physical works and the GoP has budgeted the required funds for the
-6-



completion of the works in 2002. The GoP has assured the Bank that completion of all on-going
works of the ringroad is expected by June 2002 and is currently issuing specific treasury bonds to
finance it. Although the physical works of the ringroad have not been completed, the satisfactory
rating is based on the fact that so far, the environmental hazards caused by frequent flooding
along the ringroad have been fully eliminated since last year due to the construction of proper
drainage system and flood control canals already in place.
Once the works on Asunci6n's ringroad are completed, a substantial improvement of the level of
service (mainly congestion reduction and improved safety) is expected. The impact of such
infrastructure improvements, however, will be further enhanced if the initiatives proposed under
the Transportation Master Plan for Asunci6n are implemented. The Master Plan encompasses
medium and long-term investments needed to: (i) eliminate flooding along the main access roads
to the Asuncion area; (ii) improve heavily congested traffic junctions (some of these will be
undertaken by the municipalities within the Gran Asunci6n area); (iii) improve hazardous black
spots; (iv) improve drainage systems; and, (v) build and operate a freight transfer station (through
a public private partnership). In addition the drainage improvements along the ringroad (Mme
Lynch) will increase flooding of the downstream Ytai and Lambare creeks. As mentioned earlier,
engineering designs to mitigate flooding of both creeks were completed with Project funds. The
works are seen as necessary environmental mitigation measures because of the extensive
concentration and shedding of water flows that the improvement to the ringroad area will bring
about. The GoP is committed to financing these works in the medium term.
(d) Facilitating access to the Ports of Villeta and San Antonio. This objective has been
achieved satisfactorily and will be highly satisfactory once Asunci6n's ringroad is fully
operational. The southern access (Road Paraguari-ItA-Cuatro Mojones) to Asunci6n has been
completed and is already having a substantial impact on economic development and on improving
the accessibility to the ports of Villeta (public operators) and San Antonio (private operators). In
terms of economic development, the profile of the zone along the Ita-Cuatro Mojones road
section has drastically changed from a rural into an urban area, generating increased private
investments, such as shopping centers, gas stations, local micro-enterprises and other urbanization
aspects. In terms of accessibility of the ports, traffic congestion to the ports of San Antonio and
Villeta has been reduced substantially, improving efficiency of the ports. It is important to
mention that in the San Antonio area, approximately ten new small private ports have been
established since 1995, which have substantially benefited from the rehabilitation of the southern
access to Asunci6n. -
In relation to the impact on the Port of Villeta, it was expected that a substantial part of the
Asunci6n export flows would be diverted to the Villeta port, generating a larger increase in the
export volume than for the Asunci6n port in comparison with 1994 levels. Because of external
factors not foreseen at the time of appraisal this is unlikely to happen. In September 1994,
Congress approved Law N° 419, which regulates the construction and operation of private ports.
This Law gives the private sector the opportunity to invest and operate private ports along the
Paraguayan rivers, as occurred in the San Antonio area. This, together with Paraguay's
economic recession, affects the export volume of the port of Villeta, slowing down its growth.
-7-



The accessibility to the ports will be further enhanced with the paving of Asunci6n's northern
access (Limpio-Emboscada).  This road section together with the improvement of the
Emboscada-Tacuara road of Route 3 included under an IDB-funded project shortens the
traveling distance between the northern part of the Region Oriental and Asunci6n by 80 km, thus
improving the accessibility to Villeta and San Antonio ports. The Emboscada-Tacuara road is
under construction but behind schedule and is now expected to be finished by December 2002.
(e) Reducing transportation costs of exporting soybeans to Brazil. This objective was achieved
satisfactorily. Located in the eastern part of the country, ouside the Asunci6n area, Route 6 forms
part of the strategic network for Mercosur integration and the principal road for soybean exports
to Brazil. Therefore, its improvement responds to the original project objective 3.1(e) to reduce
the transportation costs of soybean exports to Brazil. The completed works extend the life of the
pavement and reduce its roughness, with a positive 20.3 percent reduction in the average
operating costs for all vehicles. Moreover, MOPC has awarded a concession to upgrade Route 7,
converting it into a four lane road up until the access to Puente La Amistad, which facilitates
transportation of soybeans to Brazil. This concession enhances the achievement of the project
objective, especially if we consider that soybeans alone represents between 30 to 40 percent of the
registered exports of Paraguay and the agricultural zone along both roads generates 70 percent of
the soybeans exported.
(f) Improving environmental skills within MOPC.   This objective has been achieved
satisfactorily. A Ministerial decree issued on June 11, 1999, established the new organizational
structure of the Environmental Unit, a very important accomplishment. Because of this new
organization, the Unit has increased its personnel from three professionals to twenty experienced
and trained staff. As a result, the Unit is carrying out environmental evaluations and proposing
mitigation plans for road investments prepared by the Directorate of Highways. Also, the Unit
has been actively involved in monitoring on-going works funded under IDB, JBIC and Bank
projects through the project cycle: revising feasibility studies and monitoring the works of civil
works contractors.
(g) Establishing a National Motor Vehicle Registry. This project objective has been
accomplished satisfactorily but in a different manner from that initially envisaged. The objective
was achieved without direct involvement of the project other than defining the mechanism for
MOPC to access relevant data collected through the Registry (as mandated by law). Law 608/95
assigned the establishment and responsibility for a National Motor Vehicle Registry to the
Judiciary's Direcci6n General de Registros Pzublicos-DGRP. The new Registry procedures
reflect the intention of eliminating the use of circulation permits for vehicles illegally imported
from neighbouring countries. Currently, it is estimated that approximately 150,000 vehicles out
of 600,000 were illegally "imported" in Paraguay. The Registry has been fully operational since
January 2000 and as of October 26, 2001, 200,000 vehicles were registered. It is expected that
all vehicles will be registered by May 31, 2002. The MOPC, DINATRAN and the Police will
access relevant data for transport research and planning activities collected through the Registry.
However, placement of the Registry outside the sector ministry responsible for transport, where it
can be found in most other countries, may have an impact of the efficiency and effectiveness of
information exchange.
-8 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
The project achieved most of its outputs and the overall assessment of the project outputs is rated
satisfactory. The principal achievement of the project is that there are now: (i) 58.45 km of
improved roads in the southern access to Asunci6n; (ii) 17.20 km of paved roads in the northern
access to Asunci6n; (iii) 100 km resurfaced on Route 6; (iv) 31.3 km of unpaved roads tested
with low-cost technologies through the application of stabilizing agents; (v) completed Asunci6n
Transportation Master Plan for the next 20 years; (vi) completed final designs for improvement of
the Ytay and Lambare creeks; (vii) strengthened managerial capacity of MOPC; (viii)
incorporated environmental awareness within MOPC; (ix) adopted road maintenance culture; and,
(x) the establishment of the National Motor Vehicle Registry.
The output construction of 12.3 km Asunci6n's ringroad between Cuatro Mojones and Route 9
was achieved partially and is rated unsatisfactory. In terms of implementation, this was the most
complex part of the project. Two overpasses located between Av. Mariscal Lopez and Av.
Francisco Ayala road junctions of Madame Lynch Avenue have not been completed as planned.
The estimated total cost of Asunci6n's ringroad is approximately US$70.53 million, of which
US$60 million has already been spent. The implementation progress is 85.5 percent of the
physical works. The GoP will finance and complete the civil works based on a tentative
-optimistic- schedule to finish the physical targets in June 2002. The total cost includes US$2.1
million allocated to finish the sewage system along the ringroad because CORPOSANA, the
municipal authority responsible for providing water and sewage services to Asunci6n's ringroad
urbanized area, could not maintain its commitment to execute the sewage works with its own
budget due to a cancellation of a World Bank loan and lack of internal funds.
Another output by component that could be achieved only partially and is rated marginally
satisfactory was the pilot soil stabilization program of unpaved roads. Although the pilot design
and the supervision during the application of the stabilization agents was carried out by a
consulting firm, the monitoring and final testing after one year of trial period included in the same
contract were not adequately performed by the supervision consultant. The Final Report was
delivered by the consultant six months after completion of the last pilot section - where a 1 year
trial was agreed in the TORs - and did not include a cost-effectiveness analysis of the stabilization
agents and its impact on routine maintenance, and lacked monthly monitoring of completed
sections and laboratory testing on the road sections. The Department of Rural Roads carried out
only a superficial visual testing based on physical performance before and after heavy rains with
traffic, but this was clearly insufficient to provide conclusions and recommendations for future
application. Therefore, MOPC cannot yet adopt these low-cost technologies for stabilization of
unpaved roads in other projects.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis ex-post of the road improvements and rehabilitation components was
undertaken using the HDM III model. The main differences between ex-ante and ex-post analysis
were an overall cost increase of 70.5%, and a larger construction period. The principal benefits in
the "with the project" compared to the "without the project" include: (i) savings in vehicle
operating costs due to road improvements and rehabilitation; (ii) time savings for passengers; and,
(iii) savings in routine maintenance. The ex-post internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the
-9-



road component (97% of the total project cost) was estimated at 21.3% and the ex-post NPV at
about US$84.23 million equivalent. The estimated IERRs for the roads are positive ranging
between 18.8% for Cuatro Mojones-Jct. Route 9 (Asunci6n's ringroad) and 28.4% for Route 6-
Jct. Route 7. Although the ringroad is not yet fully operational, the ex-post economic rate of
return for the project is still satisfactory.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Even though the institutional component took eight years to be implemented, the project provided
significant contributions to the institutional development of the transport sector in Paraguay. In
particular, the project assisted in: the development of the Transport Law that created a National
Transport Directorate (DINATRAN) and a Metropolitan Transport Secretariat (SETAMA); the
improvement of budget allocations for maintenance of the road network over the project
implementation period; promotion of private sector participation through gradually outsourcing
road maintenance and the introduction of road concessions; the development of a Transport
Master Plan for the Asunci6n metropolitan area; introduction and testing of low-cost stabilization
technologies to reduce maintenance cost of rural roads; establishment of the National Motor
Vehicle Registry; establishment of a Unit to prepare and implement resettlement programs; and
the strengthening of MOPC's institutional and managerial capacity. In regard to the latter, the
project assisted MOPC in strengthening the Under-secretariat of Administration and Finance, the
Directorate of Roads and Highways, the Directorate of Project and Planning, and the
Environmental Unit, among others. As a result, MOPC is carrying out better analysis in terms of:
(i) contracting out feasibility studies and engineering final design; (ii) monitoring supervision of
civil works and road construction with private companies; and, (iii) performing and supervising
environmental evaluations.
Although it took approximately three and one-half years to implement the Project's resettlement
program (originally expected to be executed in twelve months), MOPC belatedly managed the
reallocation and compensation process of affected vulnerable groups and allowed the start of civil
works for the three key roads included in the program. According to a survey, most resettled
households (owners, occupants and tenants) were generally satisfied. In most cases, the adopted
solutions represented an improvement in the quality of life of the families on the 550 affected
properties. Overall, there were two primary benefits to the affected households: (i) they obtained
land tenancy; and, (ii) they experienced an improvement in the physical condition of their
residence. The evaluation showed that the living conditions for more than 70 percent of the
affected people has improved, especially regarding the tenurization of property titles. Based on
this experience, MOPC is in the process of creating a real estate unit to assist vulnerable people
and implement resettlement programs.
The human resources institutional policies recommended by the management consultants to
strengthen productivity within MOPC could not be applied or implemented due to the broader
context of state reform this has to be placed in. However, MOPC has prepared and assigned
resources to prepare an intensive technical training program for its personnel for the next fiscal
- 10-



year. It is important to mention that in previous years, the MOPC has budgeted financial
resources for training, but implementation was not possible due to lack of financial means.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
El Nifio phenomenom. Heavy rains due to El Nifno partially delayed the execution of civil works
in 1997-1998, especially on the construction of the ringroad and adjacent drainage canals.
Use of World Bank Standard Bidding documents. This was the first project in Paraguay that
used the World Bank Standard Bidding Documents which required substantial adjustments to
previously used local practices. It took considerable time before agreement was reached between
MOPC and the Bank on the format of the documents to be used for prequalification and bidding.
Deteriorating macro-economic situation contributing to shortage of local counterpartfunds.
A deteriorating macro-economic situation aggravated the problem of shortage and untimely
provision of counterpart funds caused by poor design quality, implementation delays and
inefficient administrative procedures. Problems with counterpart funding reduced project
performance throughout the implementation of the project. The civil works and the institutional
component implementation processes were affected by the lack of local budgetary resources,
which became particularly acute during the last two years of implementation. This situation also
plagued implementation of other projects in the transport sector in Paraguay resulting in a severe
financial crisis in the construction sector and slowing and sometimes interrupting all ongoing civil
works. The Government has tried to meet the contractor's demands for payment by issuing
Government Treasury Bonds, selling the bonds in the local market or paying the contractors with
bonds. The Government has also used this financial mechanism to cover MOPC's recurrent
budget.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Weak Assessment of MOPCs Institutional Capacity to Execute the Resettlement Program. At
project start MOPC had a very small staff and inadequate organizational structure and procedures
to undertake expropriation and land acquisition, and reallocate 1,882 people or 550 properties.
Project implementation arrangements failed to create a dedicated Project Implementation
Unit. The responsibility of project execution belonged to MOPC but was divided among the
Undersecretary of Public Works through the Directorate of Highways, the Directorate of Goods
and Supplies, the Environmental Unit, the Undersecretary of Administration and Finance, and the
Undersecretary of Transport. The DRH was responsible of providing overall coordination and
reporting requirements; however, the project did not include the preparation of the organizational
functions and Operational Manual which could have stated clearly their main functions,
administrative responsibilities, budget resources, office space, equipment and personnel assigned
to project on a full time basis. The lack of a special unit or a core group dedicated exclusively to
this project generated delays in the day-to-day administration and timely decision making.
Parallel civil works subproject for the ringroad sewage canceled by CORPOSANA. The
municipal water company for Asunci6n was unable to comply with bidding schedules for



sewage/drainage works intended to connect with the drainage system to be built under the
ringroad subproject. In order not to delay implementation indefinitively, the project assumed the
necessary civil works generating unforeseen cost overruns and delaying the implementation of the
ringroad subproject.
Changeover in government administration. Over the life of the project, Paraguay had three
different governments. This resulted in different ministers and several changes in project
coordinators. This adversely affected continuity and resulted in weak performance in project
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Inadequate project organizational structure. The MOPC did not have an adequate
organizational structure to implement the project. This was reflected in the poor management of
the resettlement program and in the slow bidding prequalification process during the early phases
of the project.
Engineering designs. The initial engineering designs and technical specification studies prepared
by the consultants with PPF funds were not suited to site conditions, resulting in the need for
major variations during construction which generated cost overruns, see table below.
_"_*ll+WOrk:I1~WrkaCost,US iMlllan       .       2.9
iorldbrSk    Es- mE a t drB eurg farBfddlnFa.datu.bieif' B1idd1niAfusif Cosua
Paraguarn- Ita3.34.184.615.93
Ita-Cuatro Mojonesl8.423.8724.9634.6
Cuatro Mojones-Jct Rt 926.938.2047.056.51
Umpio-Emboscada6.2-4.524.98
Resurfacing Route 66.1-6.769.24
Protracted procurement process. The process of contracting civil works and consulting services
was permanently delayed, time consuming and out of the average bank standards in terms of
execution time. These factors contributed substantially to the need to extend for twenty
four-month the closing date of the project
Lack of experience in resettlement programs. The MOPC lacked previous experience in
managing complex land acquisition, relocation of affected people and resettlement procedures as
specified by Bank resettlement guidelines.
Project Monitoring. The key performance indicators identified at the Mid-term review through
formulation of a project logical framework was not followed by MOPC to monitor and supervise
outcome such as statistics operation of poIts, periodic traffic survey, traffic counts on access to
ports, among others. Also, the project did not plan nor budget for any impact evaluation study, or
the collection of data, which might have been useful to evaluate the outcome and impact of the
project. The most extreme example is the soil stabilization pilot program which successful
implementation depends on a thorough monitoring and evaluation process. However, monitoring
has been incomplete (not on a monthly basis and only including visual inspections) and evaluation
is still pending.
- 12 -



Inappropriate grouping of roadsfor bidding. The project included cumbersome procurement of
works procedures while Asunci6n's ringroad was the only complex road that required
prequalification. Also, the prequalification process was excessively long taking up 24 months.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As per October 31, 2001, the total cost of the project amounted to US$136.29 million equivalent,
which is 51 percent higher than the appraisal estimate of US$90 million equivalent. The
Government counterpart funds increased substantially from US$25 million planned at appraisal to
about US$71.3 million, principally to finance road construction cost overruns.
The most significant source of increase was the high cost of the road improvement component,
which jumped to about US$122.48 million from about US$70 million. This increase was
primarily caused by cost overruns of Asunci6n's ringroad and Ita-Cuatro Mojones road
subprojects. The actual cost of widening and improvement of the ringroad was about
US$6,717,556 per km compared to an original estimate of US$2,933,780 per kIn, while for
Ita-Cuatro-Mojones, costs jumped to US$1,049,946 per km from US$650,939 per km. The
project, at appraisal, was to be financed 72% by the Bank and 28% by the GoP; while the actual
figures are 47.7% and 52.3% respectively. Project costs details are given in Annexes 2a (Project
Costs by Component), 2b (Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements) and 2c (Project
Financing by Component).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is rated unlikely. The Loan Agreement (Section 3.04) provided that
borrower should allocate resources of an amount equivalent of US$ 14.2 million annually to
finance the maintenance of roads. Over the life of the project, the Borrower has complied with
this requirement, which contributed to the conservation of the road network. However, taking
into account the current severe fiscal crisis, the low level of actual financial resources allocated to
road maintenance, and the absence of a sustainable road maintenance financing mechanism, there
is a high risk of deferring road maintenance, which would result in a rapid deterioration of the
national road network.
It is recommended to discuss with GoP the desirability of a follow-up project in order to enhance
sustainability of the completed project and to assure continuity and consistency in the reform of
the transport sector.  A  follow-up project could comprise investments related to the
improvements of the drainage conditions along the Ytay and Lambar6 creeks, TA to facilitate
outsourcing of road maintenance and concessioning of roads, and supporting MOPC's
institutional development.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
In order to ensure the sustainability of the project's investments and institutional achievements,
several actions or transition arrangements to regular operation are needed: (i) continue the
transferring of resources in timely manner to the Conservation Department for the maintenance of
the road network, giving priority to the newly rehabilitated roads; (ii) increase road maintenance
outsourcing by expanding the performance-based maintenance contracts pilot program; (iii)
-13 -



initiate the road concession program of 811 km that will cover the maintenance of southern access
(Paraguari-Ita-Cuatro Mojones) and the rehabilitated 100 km of Route 6; (iv) complete the pilot
soil stabilization program to reduce the road closures and maintenance costs of rural roads by
adopting low-cost stabilization technologies; (v) continue monitoring environmental and
socio-economic impacts of construction and rehabilitation of roads and upgrade the EU to a
Department Level; and (vi) continue with the technical staff training program proposed by
consultants.
In accordance with the proposed project logical framework, the optimum timing for a future
impact evaluation will be year 2003.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the project preparation stage is rated marginally satisfactory. A
multi-disciplinary team prepared the project with additional inputs from sector experts. The
sector strategy approach (project objectives were relevant and aligned with CAS), the technical
and economic viability of the selected roads were thorough and comprehensive. The team also
developed a complete set of terms of reference to hire consultants to prepare the engineering
studies, the pilot stabilization program for unpaved roads, and the institutional development
component. The project covered most of the sector transport issues.
In hindsight, the project team could have spent more time on: developing a comprehensive
resettlement program following Bank's guidelines (estimating the time, plan of action, external
factors and surrounding environment, key milestones, core group, etc.); assessing the role of
CONAVI assisting involuntary resettled population; designing a better institutional set up to
execute the project especially after a long period of inactivity which resulted in a lack of
experience and professional capacity; assigning resources for the administration of the project:
assessing borrower financial, procurement and workload capacity; reviewing technical feasibilities
studies; and in preparing monitoring indicators to measure impact, outcome and outputs, and
carefully analyzing the Bank conditionality of not disbursing funds for four roads until completion
of the resettlement program. As a result, the loan had very limited disbursements until late 1997,
almost three years after signing the loan.
7.2 Supervision:
As discussed earlier, the project suffered major startup delays. The supervision of the Bank is
characterized by two distinct phases: a first phase rated unsatisfactory and a second phase rated
satisfactory. The first phase which covers the implementation start until mid term review is rated
unsatisfactory. It was characterized by less proactive stance, lack of timely feedback and poor
results on the ground, despite 3 supervision missions a year. MOPC commented that the
communication with the Bank suffered during this period. There were two task managers both of
them transport engineers.
The second phase started at mid-term review in 1997, when the project status changed to a
satisfactory performance. The Bank developed a project logic framework defining impact and
output performance indicators and identifying the implementation risks. Good supervision
- 14 -



reports, adequate plan of actions and a better dialogue between the Bank staff and the MOPC
staff characterized the second phase. Supervision reports highlighted major project
implementation issues and corrective measures agreed upon such as the lack of counterpart
funding, difficulties regarding construction of roads, the substantial increase in cost due to
additional works, and the modification of disbursement procedures. In general, the Bank team did
a good job of supervising the physical works of the project. However, there were also some
shortcomings in the supervision during this period, as flagged by a Quality of Supervision
Assessment for FY00, which rated supervision performance marginally satisfactory for that year.
The QSA found difficulties in the handling of compliance with financial management
requirements, poor attention to the institutional strengthening component, inadequate skills mix of
supervision teams, and the incomplete use of performance indicators. However, through a joint
affort of sector management and the new TTL these issues were addressed during the last year of
supervision, resulting in clean audit reports for 1999 and 2000 and an Action Plan for institutional
strenthening. On average, the project was supervised twice a year and implementation progress
and ratings were adequately reported. There were three task managers during this phase. The
Bank conducted 15 supervision missions and the project supervision took a total of 142 staff
weeks.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is rated marginally satisfactory, despite less-than satisfactory
performance during preparation and early years of supervision. Early advice was given to the
Borrower on the scope of the ICR, and the definition and measurement of performance indicators
linked to objectives as planned at the Mid-Term Review with the Logical Framework of the
project. Problems identified by the QSA for the FY00 supervision period were addressed
adequately.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated marginally satisfactory, despite the poor quality
of engineering design for road improvement, which generated substantial cost overruns, and
despite the poor preparation of the resettlement program. However, the Borrower participated
actively in the preparation of the project. MOPC staff with the assistance of consultants prepared
the various technical and economic analysis of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was marginally satisfactory overall. Despite several
periods of insufficient counterpart funding, the project received high priority from the
Government relative to other donor financed projects, particularly in its physical components.
The Government showed its strong commitment to the project by increasing the local counterpart
fund share from US$25 million to US$71.3 million, the timely allocation of budgetary resources
for maintenance of the road network as planned in the loan agreement, and its willingness to
continue supporting the financing of Asunci6n's ringroad to completion by allocating the required
resources for the fiscal year 2002 which helped to attain all project objectives. Less satisfactory
were the long institutional battle over where to locate the Vehicle Registry and the cumbersome
bureaucratic procedures for processing international contractor payments.
- 15 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
MOPC performance was marginally satisfacory as well. In terms of project management during
the startup, the project was unsatisfactory. MOPC showed lack of commitment to resolving the
voluntary and involuntary resettlement in a timely manner. In hindsight, the agency could have
dedicated more staff, more resources, better planning and more coordination between the
Assessment, Legal and Finance Departments and the Environmental Unit. According to the
appraisal, the latter was supposed to be in charge of coordinating the implementation and
supervision of the resettlement program but this never happened. Also, the lack of a core team
dedicated to the project on a full time basis created a protracted procurement process, especially
during the prequalification process for the first three roads. While the centralization of fmnancial
accounting functions within MOPC resulted in inadeqaute project financial accounting which was
flagged in the 1999 Audit Report, MOPC responded adequately upon notification by the Bank
resulting in an unqualified audit opinion for 2000.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is satisfactory. Throughout the implementation period, the
Borrower maintained a strong commitment to attaining the project's physical targets. The limited
perfornance of the implementing agency was balanced by the Government's good performance
and further counteracted by the achievements registered by the project at the end.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from the Paraguay Eighth Highway Project are:
A. Project Design and Policy Implications
(a) Project design to reflect project complexity. The scope of the project was correctly identified
and appraised but it was overly ambitious, because it included the rehabilitation of the Asunci6n's
Ringroad, a key urban transport road, without appreciating the problems originating from the
complex traffic and environmental characteristics of this road and the inexperience of the country
with applying the Bank's safeguard policies. The complexity is reflected in the civil works and
services which include (i) the construction of three viaducts, the improvement of three main
intersections and a canal storm-drainage, sewage works and (ii) the implementation of an
involuntary resettlement program, which had more than three hundred properties. A two-phase
project design with a first phase including the less complex civil works in terms of resettlement
and procurement to gain experience in this unfamiliar area, followed by a second phase that
included Asunci6n's Ringroad would have provided more time for a thorough preparation of the
Ringroad component.
(b) Carry out the engineering designs studies before bidding and avoid delays in the
design-bidding-start of works process. Underestimation of construction costs in the design phase
lead to higher than expected bids and significant cost over-runs during construction. The higher
costs were caused by: (i) the lack of detailed engineering designs as part of the bidding
documents; and, (ii) the long time lapse between studies and start of civil works which confronted
contractors with outdated studies. Experience has shown that unless detailed and updated
engineering design studies are available before bids are requested, the financial bids received from
- 16 -



contractors are often much higher than the estimated construction costs to cover the additional
risk. Also, in those cases where construction bids were based on incomplete or outdated design
studies, technical specifications needed to be modified during construction and additional works
were necessary, which also contributed to higher than estimated construction costs.
(c) Include sustainability enhancing conditions in the Loan Agreement that can be simply
monitored. The Loan Agreement (Section 3.04) stipulated that the Borrower had to allocate
resources in an amount of US$ 14.2 million equivalent annually for the purpose of financing the
maintenance of road network. During the implementation of the project, the Borrower has
complied with this requirement which was relatively simple to monitor. Apart from contributing
to the conservation of the national road network, this helped to initiate a maintenance policy
dialogue with Government.
B. Project Implementation
(d) Follow through with the use of project monitoring indicators, select key measurable
institutional indicators, and assign a monitoring and evaluation responsibility to the
implementing agency. Although not included in the project design, the project, at mid term
review, developed a set of monitoring indicators to measure output, outcome and impact.
However, MOPC failed to understand its purpose and did not use them for project management
or as a monitoring tool "early warning device", thus reducing effective monitoring and
complicating measuring progress in fulfilling the development objectives. In addition, the project
did not include appropriate indicators for the institutional component. The monitoring and
evaluation of effectiveness of the institutional component could have been improved with the
inclusion of clear and measurable indicators. Without these indicators, it was difficult for Bank
supervision teams to identify delays and issues early enough to propose timely remedial measures.
Clear responsibility for planning and monitoring project performance and targets must be
allocated to the implementing agency.
(e) Design Project Implementation Arrangements carefully. Successful implementation of the
project depends to a large extent on the establishment and operation of an adequately staffed or
well managed Project Special Unit or core team, qualified and fully trained at the out set to
properly apply administrative and financial management procedures, including procurement and
disbursement. In a country such as Paraguay, where institutional weakness in the public sector is
common, effective project implementation requires use of Project Special Units or the assignment
of a core team on a full time basis until the overall public service has been strengthened. In this
sense a complete Operational Manual is required.
(I) Assess organizational capacity prior to the start of project implementation. The
organizational and institutional capacities of the implementing agency need to be assessed
adequately, in particular the resources allocated to administration, personnel, procurement,
training and budget. In addition, attention should be paid to data collection and management.
During the 8-years of project implementation, various units and staff kept relevant project data
separately in different departments. Since there was not a central data system or unit, it took a
long time to pull together the information required for the ICR.
- 17 -



(g) Prepare the Resettlement Plan well before project appraisal, define key indicators and
monitor implementation. All preparation activities related to land acquisition, resettlement,
relocation of affected people and financial resources should be completed well before securing the
financing that will support the investments and the start of the civil works procurement. The
experience in the implementation of the Resettlement Program provides the following lessons: (i)
the Government's capacity and commitment to pay compensation in a timely manner as scheduled
should be verified up-front; (ii) develop a follow-up plan, (iii) assess the implementing agency
capacity to execute the program; (iv) assign a project team on a full time basis during the
implementation of the resettlement; (v) revise status of land tenurization and land registration
system within the municipality or city; (v) provide financial, technical, social and legal assistance
to the agency in charge of the resettlement; (vi) monitor closely with key indicators and expected
results; and (vii) assign financial resources for impact evaluation or survey after the execution of
the resettlement.
(h) Lack of continuity in political environment and project management negatively affect
implementation. Successful implementation of the project is highly dependent on the stability of
key project management staff, both at the local and Bank levels, and a stabile political
environment. Project implementation suffered from various changes in Ministers, projects
coordinators and, on the Bank side, task managers. The project implementation organization
should be located high enough in the Ministerial hierarchy to have easy access to decision makers
and to permit fluid, constructive dialog with other operational units.
(i) Implementation capacity problems require intense supervision, to be reflected in
supervision budgets. Bank supervision missions should be geared to provide technical support to
local implementation staff in order to keep the basic concepts of project design on track and to
discuss required mutually acceptable adjustments. In addition, missions should be equipped to
assist in resolving questions of administrative detail delaying or impeding project implementation.
Where implementation capacity is weak, missions should include technical, procurement and
financial specialists as required, not only in the initial stages of project implementation, but over
the life of the project. Where the QAS noted insufficient skills mix of supervision missions, the
large amount of technical issues requiring the task manager's attention already drained the
supervision budget, making more frequent and/or various expertise missions impossible.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A final evaluation report prepared by the Borrower is included in the Annexes. The Borrower's
conclusion is that despite the difficulties encountered during preparation and implementation of
the Project, most of the project objectives were achieved satisfactory, substantially contributing to
the country's progress. The project was instrumental for the development of safer and quicker
road infrastructure, prompting socio-economic growth in the affected areas, creating employment,
improving access to health and education services, and contributing to a reduction in transport
costs which promoted commercial activities and tourism.
- 18 -



Although various changes in Government caused implementation delays in the institutional
strengthening component, significant progress was made in strengthening the organization and
management of the administrative processes and various intraministerial committees were
established as per the Bank's recommendations, such as for Strategic Planning and Human
Resources.
Despite a deteriorating macro-economic situation over the life of the project, Government
remained committed to its implementation and compliance with obligations included in the Loan
Agreement. The extreme complexity of the project, the lack of local experience with such
complex works, the first time use in Paraguay of standard World Bank documents and safeguard
policies, all contributed to delays in implementation: local technical and administrative procedures
and documents had to be adapted to these standards with frequent less than optimal results and
extensive interpretation discussions.
The Borrower's technical observations focus on the importance of improving the quality of
engineering designs and establishing quality control mechanisms, the necessity of developing a
National Road Investment Strategy and management information system, and the need for training
government and private sector professionals in new construction and maintenance methods and
administrative processes.
(2) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
- 19 -



Annex lo. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex la
Key Performance Indicators/Log framework
Key Performance    hdRataors                  SAR Estimate                        Actual
NT   D 7t.^n~MPONENT
A. Road Impronvements                                         Km                               Km
Civil Works I (Paraguari - Ita)                             24.00                           22.65
Civil Works II (Ita - Cuatro Mojones)                       34.60                           35.80
avil Works III ( Cuatro Mojones - Jct. Rt 9)                12.30                        10.50 (85.5%)
Civil Works IV ( Limpio -Emboscada)                         17.00                            17.20
Land Acquisition (properties)                               512                              550
., Road Rehabilitation
Civil Works V (Resurfadng Route 6)                         100.00                          100.00
I ClviI Works VI. Stabilization Program                    40.00                            31.30
IZ. CONSU7dTlN SERVICES
l  sgDnaserD  Services
Civil Work Supervision                              Civil Works Supervision               Executed
Design Rehabilitabon of RT. 6                              Study                          Executed
Pilot Stabilization Program                          Pilot Study Program                  Executed
Engineering Design of Creeks                               Study                          Executed
PPF Engineering Services                       Detailed Engineering Design Roads          Executed
B. Studies
Asunci6n Transportation Master Plan                        Study                          Executed
PPF Environmental Studies                                  Study                          Executed
7 anchn1csO Anssistance & Training
MOPC's Management Strengthening                            Study                       Study performed
Environmental Unit                                  Workshops &Training                   Executed
DPP Strengthening                                   Workshops & Training                  Executed
National Vehicle Registry                           National Vehicle Registry   Implemented by Ministry of Justice
PPF TA Expenditures                                        Studies                     Studies performed
Il2= EQUIPMENT                                       Computers and software             Equipment installed
- 20 -



Annex lb
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Project Conpia,ents                Unit         SAR Estimate              Actual
ROADS
C:vli Wosrks 1t Paraguari Ith1                 Km             24.00                  22.65
Clvlg Works 11 (Iti Cuatro Mojones)           Km              34.60                  35.80
Civil Works III (Cuatro Mojone3ct. Rt9)        Km              12.00                 10.50
3 Viaduct, at grade crossing with signal lights,
otary, storm drainage improvements
Civil Works IV (LimpleEmboscada)              Km              17.00                  17.20
Clvii Works V (Resurfacing Route 6)           Km              100.00                100.00
Clvil Works VI (Stabilization Program)        Km              40.00                  31.30
MOPC's RoadMalntenance budget                US Million
1994           10.70                   13.7
1995            14.20                  17.4
1996           14.20                   18.2
1997           14.20                   15.9
1998            13.00                  15.9
1999             13.00                  11.2
2000             13.00                  12.5
2001             13.00                  12.0
Average Traffic (IMD)                      Vehides per day      1 990                 2001
Total    Trucks     Total       Trucks
Paraguari - Ita                                            2 450       653      5 090          1001
Its - Cuatro Mojones                                       5 147       774      19.430         2 324
Cuatro Mojones - ]ct. Rt 9                                12 131      1 607     16 476         2 109
Umpio -Emboscada                                             647       332      1 488           477
Resurfadng Route 6                                                              1 646           431
verage Road Roughness                          IRI
Paraguari - RI                                                  3                    2.5
RI - Cuatro Mojones                                             3                     2.5
Cuatro Mojones - Jct. Rt 9                                      3                    2.5
Limpio -Emboscada (Route 3)                                     3                    2.5
Resurfadng Route 6                                              3                     2.5
TuOI freolglh                                              Ports (1996)         Ports (2000)
Asund6n    Private  Asund6n     Private Ports
Ports
Exports                                   Thousand tons   108       295        168         603
Imports                                   Thousand tons   222       930        170         1 034
Cabotage                                  Thousand tons    5                    3
Total freight                 .                             Ports (1996)           Ports (2000)
Asund6n    Villeta  Asund6n       Villeta
Exports                                  Thousand tons    108       83        168          183
Imports                                   Thousand tons   222       46         169          49
Cabotage                                  Thousand tons    5        71          3          339
-21 -



Annex Ic
Studies included in project
StudF -                          Purp"ose                  ' sia      -    -- Impact of Study
1. Engineering Designs for        Engineering design for the rehabilitation  Completed  Road rehabilitated
resurfacing Route 6           of 100 km
20  Urban Master Plan for the    This study provides medium and long-   Completed      The study will improvE
great Asuncion Area          term investments in the Asundon urban                  drainage and safety o
area.                                                 Asuncion's main accesses
EngineeringDesigns for Ytay Improve drainage conditions along Ytay  Completed      Reduce   flooding  alon
and Lambard creeks            and Lambare creeks                                    hese two creeks due t
construction of Asuncion'
Ring road. To be finances
by GOP or follow o
operation.
4.  Pilot Program of EarthRoad Determinate specifications and       Application of agents Reduce the maintenance
Stabilization                operation and maintenance              completed.     cost of unpaved roads
comparative                          M&E incomplete
.___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ _ _   costs of soil stabilization  agents
5.   Strengthen MOPC's           Design improved macro-management    Phase I Completed  Raise the effectiveness
Organization                 methods to help MOPC discharge its  Phase 11 completed  and efriciency of the
Phase I- Diagnosis,          responsibilities in a more effective and              MOPC's overall
Recommendations, Discussio cost efficient manner, taking into                      organizational performance
and ExamInation of           account the strategic altematives
Alternatives, Development ol available to the MOPC to accomplish its
the Plan of Action, Initial  objectives
Implementation and
Preliminary Assessment of
Results
Phase II- Evaluation of the
Results of the Plan of Action
:mplemnentat,on's
- 22 -



Annex Id
Institutional Arrangements of the Project
Components                        Executing Agency                Operation & Maintenancet
continuity of Program
Road Rehabilitacon                   Directorate of Highways             Under secretanat of Public lWVorks
Road Maintenance                     Directorate of Highways             Under secretariat of Public Works
Nabonal Vehide Registry              Directorate of Land Transport        Minisbry of Justice
und6n Transport Master Plan        Planning Office                     Under secretariat of Transport
Annex le
Road Works Costs Tables
I, fl,nTriabon pe, Rcraj Seetior,
r,fraJS Estinatets (COss Ir 199 uis'3 
L Urrigdl th Idth   Wonrk        'Work 1hoo                Costs       C i  6:,st'Kri1
(|kn) (.  i i      CI ls5       I '_.        lcLr'. tv  ('JS1 m0iit'o,  (L`L$ SrKm)
Road Improvements           87.90                                                            70.5     802,105
Paraguari - Ith               24.00    n.a.  Improvements Rehabilitation   Overlay             4.1      171,898
Ita - Cuatro Mojones          34.60    n.a.  Improvements    Widening   Widening to 4L        22.5     650,939
Cuatro Mojones - Jct. Rt 9    12.30    n.a.  Improvements    Widening   Widening to 4L        36.1    2,933,780
Umpio -Emboscada (Route 3)   17.00    n.a.   Rehabilitabon Reconstruction Reconstruction      7.8      457,147
AC
Resurfadng Route 6           100.00    n.a.   Rehabilitabon  Rehabilitation  Overlay           7.3      72,510
C PNilo Stabilization Prqpnm  40.00    n.a.   Preservaton   Preventive   Stabilization         1.2      29,895
I_Pedodic       Treatment                   _
inroniation r- Roacl Selertio4,
AppLsal rsbrnates,',costE in 2OO UJS$
Leritth WViitn     l/VLrl        l'VirK Work ts I               (I 1   (,st/Knr
(k rr')   {r i     ')  . uasS   T ^pe        ALtv :-I,  (IJS$ rniih-on,  ." I SS, i  n'-)
IA Road Improvements           86.15                                                         122.48    1,421,706
Route 1. Paraguari - Ib       22.65    n.a.  Improvements Rehabilitabon    Overlay            7.28     321,523
ItA - Cuatro Mojones          35.80    n.a.  Improvements    Widening   Widening to 4L       37.59    1,049,946
Cuatro Mojones - Jct. Rt 9    10.50    n.a.  Improvements    Widening   Widening to 4L       70.53    6,717,556
Umplo -Emboscada (Route 3)    17.20    n.a.  Rehabilitation Reconstruction Reconstruction     7.08     411,343
AC
lr   1 Road RehablDitation
Resurfadng Route 6           100.00    n.a.   Rehabilitation Rehabilitation  Overlay         10.13     101,30
C. Pilte Stabilization Progra  31.30    n.a.   Preservation  Preventive   Stabilization        0.57       18,211
-.         -       Periodic    Treatment
(1) Costs include Land Acquisition, design, supervision, works and contingendes.
- 23 -



Animnem 2. 1Firoject Costs and Financing
Annex 2a
Project Cost by Component
Appraisal      AuWatl~i4wii     Percecftagje of
Project Cost By Component                   Estimate          Estinmate       Appraisal
US$ million       US$ million
I. ROAD COMPONENT                                                  79.00          133.18            1690/
A. Road Improvements                                              70.55           122.48           174%
B. Road Rehabilitation                                              7.25            10.13           1400/
C. Pilot Stabilization Program                                      1.20            0.57            480-
IL CONSULTING SERVICES                                             10.40            2.93            280/
A. Engineering Services                                             6.74            0.28             4/
B. Studies                                                          0.71             0.25            350/
C. Technical Assistance & Training                                  2.95            2.40            810/
III. E~QUIPMENT                                                     0.60            0.18             300/
OTL PR0WECT COSTS                                               90.001          136.29i          1510/
Annex 2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
j~~t~~4ft*~~~~                    Procuremnent Mathod)
Categorles           ______                       ipraisal lEstimate_______
ICI           NCB           Other          NBF            Total
L.Civil Warkw                       72.80          1.20                        5.00           79.00
(56.20)        (0.80)(00)57)
2. Equipment                                                     0.60                          0.60
(0.40)                        (0.40)
3. Consulting Services                          ~~~~10.40                     10.40
(7.60)                        (7.60)
TOIrAL                    ~~~~~72.80      1.20         11.00          5.00           90.00
(56.20)        (0.80)        (8.00)        (0.00)          (65.00)
-24 -



Annex 2c
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ millions/equivalent)
Expenditure                                   Procurement Methodt"
Categories         l                          Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB           NCB           Other           NBF            Total
I.Clvhi Works                   119.97          0.30                         13.00          133.27
__ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ (64.52)     (0.30)                       (0.00)         (64.82)
o. Equipment                _                                 0.18                     -     0.18
(0.17)                        (0.17)
S. CoFIsuBtIng Services                                       2.84                          2.84
(0.01)                (~~~~~0.01)
TOTAL                           119.97          0.30          3.02           13.00          136.29
(64.52)        (0.24)         (0.18)         (0.00)        (65.00)
(1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.
Annex 2d
Project Finandng by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Conmponent             Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Esftmatel Percentage ofAppraisali
l  Bank  |   Govt.       Bank        Boat.                    Govt
1. ROAD COMPONENT              57.00        22.00       61.90       71.28       109%         324%
A. Road Improvements           50.76        19.79       56.09       66.39       111%         336%
B. Road Rehabilitation          5.44         1.81       5.29        4.84         97%         267%
. Pilot Stabilization Program  0.80        0.40        0.51        0.06         64%          15%
I. CONSULTXNG SERVICES         7.60         2.80        2.92        0.01        38%           0%
. Engineering Services         5.70        1.04        0.27        0.01         5%           1%
B. Studies                      0.50        0.21        0.25                     50%          0%
C. Technical Assistance &       1.40        1.55        2.40                    171%          00/0
Training
Ill EQUIPMENT                  0.40         0.20        0.18                    45%          0%
OTAL                           65.00        25.00       65.00       71.29       100%         285%
Annex 2e
Financing (in US$ million equivalent):
[      Estimated               DIn                 Actual   XDI
I Bank                              65.00             72.22% |                65.00 |            47.69%
Govemment                          25.00             27.78%                  71.29              52.31%
TOTAL                              90.00            100.00%                 136.29             100.00%
- 25 -



Annex 3. [aonovnc Costs and Benen           HS
Com,ponef"t                  SAR Estimate                  Actual
Costs     NPV     IERR     Costs    NPV      IERR
US$      US$               US$      uss
________________________    _   .  .million  m illion   _  m illion  million  ______._
A. Road gmpravemenf___
Paraguarf - Ita                     4.0 l          8.90°/     7.3           23.8
Ita - Cuatro Mojones               23.0            14.300/4  37.6            27.1
Cuatro Moiones - Ict. Rt 9         36.6           27.40°/a   70.5            18.8
Umpio -Emboscada (Route 3)          7.7   =       10.80°/     7.0            26.3
Resurfacing Route 6          1      7-3                      10.0        1   28.4
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performannce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation  De%elopment
MonthvYear    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Supervision
04/08/1994                2    TM, (TE), TE                      S             S
08/11/1994                   2   TM, TE                             U             S
01/20/1995                   2   TM, TE                             U             S
0707/1995                    2   TM, TE                             U             S
11/10/1995                   2   TM, TE                            U             S
02/16/1996                   1   TM                                 U             S
05/24/1996                   2   TS, TE                             U             S
10/10/1996                   2   2 TE's                            U             S
06/27/1997                   2   HE, TS                             U             S
12/06/1997                   2   TM, TS                             S            S
06/26/1997                   2   TM, HE                             S             S
11/25/1998                   2   TM, HE                             S            S
06/19/1999                   2   TM, E                              S             s
12/12/1999                   2   TM (TS), SD                        S            S
06/30/2000                   1   TM                                 S             S
10/25/2000                   3   TE, HE, FS                         S            S
ICR
04/05/200 1                 2     TM, FS                            S             S
EN - Engineer, EC - Economist, ENV - Environment Spedalist, FS - Financial Spedalist, HE - Highway Engineer, SD - Social
Development Specialist, TE - Transport Economist, TM - Task Manager, TS - Transport Specialist.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Lalest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Supervision                             142.2                      538.4
ICR                                       1.4                        26.0
Total                                   315.1                      1051.6
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=-Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Nct Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                      O H OSUOM       O N  * NA
Sector Policies                     O H OSU*M       O N O NA
[9 Physical                           O H *SUOM       O N  O NA
ED Financial                          OH   OSUOM      ON   *NA
F Institutional Development           0 H  * SU O M   0 N 0 NA
E Environmental                       O H OSU*M       O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM       O N * NA
Ol Gender                       OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        OH OSUOM        ON   * NA
* Private sector development          0 H  * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management            0 H O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
-28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
D Lending                                         OHSOS        OU     O HU
El Supervision                                    OHS OS       OU     OHU
El Overall                                         OHS OS      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                           Rating
El Preparation                                     OHS OS      O u    O HU
E Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
El Implementation agency performance              OHS OS       O U    O HU
El Overall                                        OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*   Project Supervision Reports 1994 - 2001
*   Amendment to the Loan Agreement 1999
*   Amendment to the Loan Agreement 2000
* Quality of Supervision Assessment FY00
*   Project Files
*   Economic Evaluation ex-post of Higways VIII civil works, November 2001
- 30 -



Additional Annex 8. Logframe: Mid-Term Review
PARAGUAY
Eighth Highway Project (Loan 3685-PA)
Mid-Term Review Log Frame
Monitoring and            Critical Risks and
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators            Supervision                Assumptions
CAS Objective              By year 2003...                                            (CAS Objective to Bank Mission)
Support efforts to achieve  * exports handled through the ports of  * Statistics operation  * Paraguay's macro-economic
long-term sustainable growth  San Antonio and Villeta increased  of Ports               conditions remain favorable;
within the context of         over the 1994 levels at a pace   * Periodic traffic     * Government furthers its
MERCOSUR by improving         greater than that for the Asunci6n  surveys OPIT           commitment to increasing
the conditions for attracting  Port;                           * MOPC's annual           private sector participation in
private investment and      * traffic flows along the system of  reports                infrastructure.
improving the efficiency of   access to Asunci6n freed from the                       * Infrastructure projects support
public investment.           interferences experienced in the                            economic growth and provide
past due to major flooding or                              equitable access to the
excessive congestion in key road                           poorer/disadvantages groups
junctures;
* use of private sector resources in
undertaking and/or financing road
activities increased by contracting
out/delegating to third parties 100%
of activities along international
corridors and 50% along the trunk
and rural roads systems;
* MOPC's capacity to implement
projects strengthened, increasing
annual budgetary execution from
50% in early 90s to not less than
90%, and accomplishing 90% of
physical targets under its
investment plan on time and within
budget as planned;
. road closures and maintenance costs
of rural roads reduced by adopting
low-cost stabilization technologies
- 31 -



Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators          Monitoring and            Critical Risks and
Supervision               Assumptions
Project Development          By year 2000...                                             (Dev. Objectives to CAS
Objectives                   * the environmental hazards and the  * Traffic surveys      Objective)
* Reduce urban problems        nuisance caused by frequent major     performed by OPIT.  * Current trend in intemational
through works which reduce   floods along Asunci6n's ringroad   * Completion of          trade to/from the ports of
flooding of and congestion   eliminated through improvements to   paving works on Rt.    Villeta and San Antonio
along Asunci6n's ringroad    the road and drainage system;        3 between              continues within the
plans with medium and long-term      Emboscada and Cnel     MERCOSUR framework;
improvements to eliminate flooding in  Oviedo with IDB   * MOPC's capable of managing
the Great Asunci6n area, and final   funding;               a large investment program,
engineering for-improvement of the  * Traffic counts on     which entails a two to three-
Ytay and Lambar6 creeks made         access roads to ports  fold increase in spending
available for implementation under   of Villeta and San     levels.
follow on operations;                Antonio.             * Funding for the medium and
* the level of service (expressed by the  * Final reports     long-term plan to eliminate
volume/capacity ratio) on Asunci6n's  prepared by           flooding in the Great Asunci6n
ringroad and the existing road from  consultants.           area becomes available.
San Lorenzo to Ita increased, as a                       * MOPC remains committed to
result of widening the road and                             implementing the long-term
building viaducts in the thtee most  * Monitoring of        plan for institutional
* Facilitate the use of         trafficked intersections, and of     MOPC's institutional   strengthening after completing
altemative ports:            deviating about 20-50% (depending    strengthening          those activities funded by the
on section) of existing traffic onto new  program           project.
* Reduce transportation costs  south access;
of exporting soybeans to   * travel distance between northem part
Brazil:                      of the Regi6n Oriental and Asunci6n
reduced by 80 km after paving the
* Improve sectoral              Limpio-Emboscada (north access)
management and planning      road and the Emboscada-Tacuara links
capabilities within MOPC     on Rt. 3 included in the IDB-funded
project;
* accessibility to the ports of Villeta and
San Antonio improved by upgrading
the Asunci6n ringroad and its north
and south accesses;
* pavement condition of Rt 6 between
Rt. 7 and Km 100 improved and
vehicle operating costs lowered
through a 23% reduction in average
roughness indicator (to IRI=2 after its
resurfacing in 1999)
* program for strategic planning
implemented within MOPC by end-
1998 and interaction among MOPC
areas enhanced;
* performance indicators for MOPC's
administration and finance area
achieved by end-1998;
* MOPC's human resource- base
strengthened by implementing by end-
1998 (1) a training program in project
management, and (2) a performance
management system for staff;
* low-cost technologies for stabilization
of unpaved roads successfully tested
and adopted by MOPC for routine
application in other projects;
- 32 -



Monitoring and       Critical Risks and Assumptions
Narrative Summary              Key Performance Indicators'             Supervision
Project Outputs               By year 2000                            * Project supervision  * (Outputs to Dcv. Objectives)
* Key road links improved or  * about 58 km of roads in the south access to  reports and     * Functioning of improved drainage
rehabilitated                 Asuncion improved                       Implementation         system not hampered by (I)
* Studies and technical       * about 12.3 km of the ringroad between    Completion Report,     inadequate maintenance of
assistance programs under     Cuatro Mojones and Rt. 9 widened to four  * Annual audits of   infrastructure, and (2) rapid, poorly
the project successfully     lanes, three viaducts built, and two main  project accounts,    planned urbanization of area.
completed.                    stomm-drain canals improved;          * Evaluation ofresults  * Paving of Rt. 3 links included
* about 17 km of roads in the north access to  by MOPC under      under the IDB-funded project
Asuncion paved;                          Phase 11 of the        completed as planned.
* about 100 km of Rt. 6 resurfaced;         institutional
* about 40 km of unpaved roads stabilized   strengthening
with low-cost technologies;              program.
* investment and institutional plans adopted
by MOPC and the municipalities in the
Great Asunci6n area to (1) eliminate
flooding along the area, (2) improve traffic
flows through major intersections and
roads providing access to Asuncion; and
(3) improve traffic safety;
* macro-management methods dtsigned to
help MOPC discharge its responsibilities in
a more effective and cost efficient manner;
* environmental awareness within MOPC
and other related agencies increased and
social assistance policies adopted for use in
other projects that need relocation of
vulnerable people
Project Components            By mid-term review (mid 1997)                                  (Components to Outputs)
* Improving the northem and   * acquisition of land and resettlement of  * Certification that  * Project completion not hampered
southem road accesses to      people affected by the upgrading of     land has been          or significantly delayed by: (i)
Asunci6n and the Asunci6n     Asunci6n ringroad and south access      purchased and          shortages in, or untimely release
Ringroad                      completed;                              affected people        of, counterpart funds, (ii)
* Rehabilitating Route 6.     * contracts for improvement of access to   compensated/re-        contractors' lack of capacity to
* Piloting unpaved-road         Asunci6n (Works 1, n and 111) awarded;   located,               undertake the works within the
stabilization technologies  * engineering designs for resurfacing of Rt. 6  * Work and       agreed timeframe, and (iii)
* Providing engineering         completed;                               supervision contracts  inability of MOPC and its
services to supervise civil  * consultant for engineering the pilot   issued,                supervisors to control costs during
works and design the pilot    unpaved road stabilization program hired.  * Reports prepared by  work execution;
unpaved road stabilization  * final designs for improvement of the Ytay  consultants.      * Coordination between MOPC and
program, the resurfacing of   and Lambar6 creeks completed;         * Receipt of works by    the mumicipadities of the Great
Route 6, and the           * Phases I and n of Asunci6n Transportation  MOPC                 Asunci6n area enhanced.
improvements to the Ytay      Master Plan completed;
and Lambar6 creeks;        * First phase of technical assistance program
* Carrying out the Study for    completed and Implementation Plan agreed
Asunci6n Transportation       upon;
Master Plan.               By project end (end 2000)
* Strengthening through       * All civil works completed;
technical assistance MOPC's  * results of pilot unpaved-road stabilization
organization and              program appraised;
management, DPP and EU.    * Study for Asunci6n Transport Master Plan
completed (Phases m -I);
* Second Phase of technical assistance
program completed.
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact
- 33 -



- 34 -



Additional Annex 10. Project Evaluation by Borrower
MINISTERIO DE OBRAS PUBLICAS Y COMUNICACIONES
INFORME FINAL DE EJECUCION
DEL
OCTAVO PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS
PRESTAMO No 3685-PA BIRF
Diciembre, 2001
- 35 -



OCTAVO PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS
INFORME FINAL DE EJECUCION
INDICE
1.     EVALUACION DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y METAS
II.   EVALUACION DE LOS RESULTADOS OBTENIDOS
111. DESEMPENO DEL PRESTATARIO
IV. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
V.     LECCIONES CLAVES APRENDIDAS PARA FUTUROS
PROYECTOS
INFORME DE FINAL DE EJECUCION DEL OCTAVO PROYECTO DE CARRETERAS
1.    EVALUACION DE LOS OBJETIVOS Y METAS DEL PROYECTO
El Paraguay es un pals mediterraneo ubicado en el centro de la America del Sur entre los rios
Parana, Paraguay y Pilcomayo. Linda con Bolivia, Brasil y Argentina. Su economia se basa
principalmente en la exportaci6n de soja y algod6n que, juntos, representan mas del 70 % de
sus ingresos totales por exportaci6n. Debido a las grandes distancias que se requiere cubrir
para llegar a puertos oceanicos de aguas profundas, la eficiencia y los costos del transporte
son crucia-les para las exportaciones paraguayas.
La modalidad principal para la movilizaci6n de cargas y pasajeros es el transporte por
carreteras, alrededor del 85% del volumen total de transporte para los mercados intemos e
internacionales es realizado por carreteras, pues este medio se ha desarrollado en forma mas
acelerada por la mayor cobertura territorial que ofrece la red vial, su mayor flexibilidad para
atender la demanda de comercializaci6n interna y regional, asi como la de transporte puerta a
puerta.
En este contexto, la economia del pals ha tenido un fuerte desarrollo en la decada del 80,
para luego sostener un crecimiento mas moderado en la dedada del 90.
- 36 -



Sin embargo, la expansi6n y/o mejoramiento de la infraestructura del transporte no acompafn6
al crecimiento mencionado y rapidamente comenz6 a manifestarse la insuficiencia de esta
infraestructura como un factor de restricci6n al desarrollo nacional, y como un obstaculo
importante para la expansi6n de la producci6n y el comercio exterior.
El Banco Mundial ha participado apoyando al subsector de carreteras desde el ano 1951,
financiando la compra de equipos para construir caminos secundarios como parte de un
proyecto agropecuario. Desde octubre de 1961 se han aprobado siete proyectos de
carreteras, por un total de aproximadamente 149 millones de d6lares.
Por lo expuesto precedentemente, el Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones y el
Banco Mundial, han desarrollado el 'Octavo Proyecto de Carreteras", orientado principalmente
a la reducci6n de costos de transporte, el desarrollo de los corredores de exportaci6n e
importaci6n, desarrollo de carreteras para el fomento de la producci6n agropecuaria y la
facilitaci6n del seguro acceso a todos los distritos del pais.
Los objetivos fundamentales a lograr con el 80 Proyecto de Carreteras fueron los siguientes:
a)    Fortalecer la organizaci6n del MOPC y promover el trabajo en equipo a su mas alto
nivel;
b)    Mejorar la capacidad del MOPC para construir y entregar caminos de buena calidad y
mantener correctamente los mismos;
C)    Aliviar los problemas causados por la rapida urbanizaci6n;
d)    Reducir el riesgo medioambiental y las molestias a personas y empresas, causadas
por la frecuente inundaci6n del area de  circunvalaci6n de Asunci6n;
e)    Facilitar el uso de los Puertos de Villeta y San Antonio para incrementar exportaciones;
f)    Reducir los costos de transportes para la exportaci6n de soja al Brasil;
g)    Mejorar la capacidad de la Direcci6n de Vialidad del MOPC en el diseno y planificacion
de obras viales;
h)    Mejorar la capacidad de evaluaci6n medioambiental; y
i)    Prestar asistencia al MOPC para establecer el Registro Nacional de Vehfculos.
El proyecto incluyo:
A. Obras Civiles
(i)   mejoras viales:
a)    Paraguari-lta-Gurambare-Ypa-ne-Nemby-Cuatro Mojones;
b)    Cuatro Mojones-Defensores del Chaco-Ma-dame Lynch-Empalme Ruta 9; y
c)    Limplo-Emboscada;
(ii)  rehabilitaci6n vial: renovaci6n de la superficie de 100 km de la Ruta 6 entre el empalme
con la Ruta 7 y el km 100;
(iii)  Programa piloto de estabilizaci6n de caminos sin pavimentar: tratamiento de 80 km de
caminos sin pavimentar, con aceites sulfonados para probar si el proceso se adapta y es
aplicable en el Paraguay;
B. Servicios de Consultoria
(i)   servicios de ingenierfa para: supervisar las obras civiles, dirigir el pro-grama piloto de
estabilizacion de caminos sin pavimentar, disefar las obras de renovaci6n de ia Ruta 6, e
ingenieria y diseno de mejoras a los riachuelos Ytay y Lambare;
- 37 -



(ii)  estudios: preparacion de un Plan Maestro del Transporte para Asunci6n;
(iii)  asistencia tecnica: examen de la administraci6n del MOPC, asistencia a la unidad del
medio ambiente, fortalecimiento de ia capacidad de diseno y planificaci6n de obras viales, y la
implementaci6n de un registro nacio-nal de vehfculos; y
C. Equipamiento:
Adquisici6n de computadoras para implantar el registro nacional de vehi-culos, y
equipos y maquinas para un laboratorio de suelos y materiales.
Durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, de manera permanente y con apoyo de las misiones
peri6dicas del Banco, se fueron evaluando los avances alcanzados y las dificultades
presentadas, por lo que no ha sido necesario la modificaci6n integral de ninguno de los
objetivos fundamentales del Proyecto, salvo la implantaci6n del Registro Nacional de
Vehiculos puesto que durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto, ha sido promulgada la Ley N° 608/95
que asigna al Poder Judicial la responsabilidad de ejecutar dicho programa, saliendo del
ambito del MOPC, por lo que, al ser eliminado del Proyecto este componente, la adquisici6n
de computadoras que se previ6 para el efecto, han sido adquiridas para el fortalecimiento de
la Unidad Ambiental y para el Departamento de Evaluaci6n y Control de la Direcci6n de
Vialidad. Ademas fueron excluidos del Proyecto, la compra de equipos y maquinarias para un
laboratorio de suelos y materiales teniendo en cuenta que dicha adquisici6n estaba prevista
en un programa con financiamiento del Gobierno del Jap6n.
Sin embargo, en lo que concierne a las metas establecidas, como resultado del mejoramiento
en los disenos iniciales de los proyectos, mayores costos de las obras y disponibilidad de
recursos locales, fue necesario realizar reajustes en relaci6n a los costos, plazos y
financiamientos previstos
Al realizar la evaluaci6n de Proyecto, es muy importante resaltar que debido al desfasaje entre
la realizaci6n de los estudios previos y la ejecuci6n de las Obras, las metas establecidas para
dos de ellas no fueron alcanzadas en el tiempo previsto para el ultimo desembolso del
Prestamo (15 de junio de 2001), estimandose que se estarfa logrando para el pr6ximo mes
de abril de 2002, con financiamiento netamente local. Situaci6n esta, no acorde con los plazos
reducidos que exigia urgentemente el pafs para solucionar los graves problemas de acceso a
la Capital, principalmente con las inundaciones que se sucedian en la via de circunvalaci6n,
que con cada lluvia de mas de 70 mm (normal en el verano) interrumpia el transito por varias
horas, quedando Asunci6n sin salida, y una poblaci6n importante directamente afectada por la
inundaci6n de su vivienda.
Se presentaron ademas, exigencias de caracter extemo que el Proyecto debi6 superar con el
fin de lograr los objetivos y metas propuestas, pudiendo mencionarse entre los mas relevantes
a los derivados de la amplitud, complejidad y caracteristicas particulares de la obra civil mas
importante del Proyecto como es el mejoramiento de la Avenida de Circunvalaci6n de
Asunci6n, tramo Cuatro Mojones-Defensores del Chaco-Ma-dame Lynch-Empalme Ruta 9,
donde se conjugan los problemas propios de la ampliaci6n de una via en una zona sub
urbana, con los problemas de la canalizaci6n de cursos de agua, con frecuentes inundaciones
no solo de la zona de obras sino tambien las viviendas adyacentes, y con desagues pluviales
y sanitarios precarios existentes.
Sin embargo, a pesar de los inconvenientes que se afrontaron, la adecuada gesti6n de los
responsables administrativos y operacionales de los organismos ejecutores permiti6 alcanzar
- 38 -



satisfactoriamente la mayoria de las metas establecidas en el Proyecto, y que estan
contribuyendo sustancialmente al progreso del pafs, convirti6ndose el Octavo Proyecto de
Carreteras en un factor importante del desarrollo de vias alternativas mas seguras y rapidas,
impulsando el crecimiento de diferentes actividades socioecon6micas propias de cada zona,
promoviendo la generaci6n de puestos de trabajo, el acceso a servicios de salud y educaci6n,
y coadyuvando a la reducci6n de los costos del transporte con lo que se fomenta el
intercambio comercial y turistico.
II.   EVALUCION DE RESULTADOS
El presupuesto programado inicialmente fue del orden de US$ 90 millones y los costos finales
de inversi6n sobrepasaron los US$ 136 millones, tal como se muestra en el ANEXO 1, lo que
representa 52 % mas del monto estimado en la fase de preparaci6n, y que implic6 una mayor
participaci6n de Aporte Local que sobrepas6 los US$ 71 millones, aumento equivalente a casi
tres veces mas de lo previsto que fue de US$ 25 Millones.
Cabe sefialar que la mayor diferencia, se encuentra principalmente en los incrementos de
costos de los Componentes de Obras Civiles, como se muestra en el ANEXO 2, debido
principalmente a:
1.    el tiempo transcurrido entre la etapa de finalizaci6n de los estudios en 1993, y la
licitaci6n / contratacion de las obras en 1997. Este tiempo ha sido empleado en dos
actividades principales,
a.    acordar entre el M.O.P.C. y el Banco, las bases y condiciones de los documentos de
precalificaci6n y licitaci6n para contratar las obras y las supervisiones, ajustandolos a las
Normas Locales y del Banco que no son muy claras y expeditivas, y
b.    Ia reubicaci6n de la poblaci6n afectada por las obras, y la adquisici6n de los derechos
de posesi6n de las tierras para implantaci6n de las mismas, ocasionados por la falta de una
Unidad de Bienes Inmobiliarios en la estructura organica del M.O.P.C., encargada de procesar
todos los requerimientos en esa materia.
2.    La realizaci6n de mejoras adicionales no contempladas en los Disenos Finales de
Ingenieria, consecuencia de imprecisiones y/o defectos en los proyectos y por mayores
volumenes de trabajo que los inicialmente previstos, porque en el tiempo transcurrido entre la
etapa de disenio y de ejecuci6n de las obras, se ha producido una rapida urbanizaci6n en la
zona. Ademas se tuvieron que realizar obras nuevas que debian ejecutar otras instituciones
(CORPOSANA).
El aumento sustancial de los requerimientos de recursos locales, que no siempre estaban
disponibles oportunamente, ha ocasionado regularmente una reduccion del ritmo de ejecuci6n
de las obras, si no la paralizaci6n por algunos periodos de hasta seis meses..
En cuanto a las modificaciones principales de los contratos de obras fueron:
Obra 1: Rehabilitaci6n y Pavimentaci6n de la Ruta 1 Tramo: Paraguari - Yaguar6n - ltd.
1)    Sustituci6n de los tramos de banquinas con empedrado base por una base
drenante de concreto asfaltico.
2)    Inclusi6n de cunetas revestidas, cord6n cuneta, construcci6n y reposici6n de
empedrado, alcantarillas tubulares, barandas de hormig6n para puentes, Cord6n
- 39 -



protector de borde, barras transversales en banquinas, pedraplenes, y drenes
subterraneos.
3)    Ensanche de calzada para darsenas, incluir disipadores en las cunetas con
marcadas pendientes, cambiar barandas deterioradas o construirlas en puentes
existentes, e incrementar la "Senalizaci6n Vertical".
4)   Inclusi6n de la construcci6n de una variante en la zona urbana de Yaguar6n
que permita la circulaci6n en sentido unico para la travesia de la Ciudad.
Obra I: Rehabilitaci6n y Pavimentaci6n de Acceso Sur a Asunci6n, Tramo: Ita -
Guarambar6 - Nremby - 4 Mojones
1)   Cambio de perfil rural a urbano, por la rapida urbanizaci6n de la zona.
2)   Variaci6n de excavaciones de distintos tipos, terrapl6n, bacheo, pedraplen,
drenes, empedrado, conducto de desague pluvial, por la presencia de suelos no aptos,
desechos y material de arrastre, mayor deterioro de la calzada, y empalmes con calles
transversales.
3)    Modificaci6n de cantidades de excavaciones, terraplenes, cord6n cuneta,
cuneta revestida, revestimiento de taludes con tepes, gaviones entre otros, por la
urbanizaci6n de la zona, por la presencia de rocas mayores a las previstas, de suelos
inadecuados, y napas freaticas muy altas.
4)    La inclusi6n de varias obras nuevas para el mejoramiento del tramo: Ita -
Itaugua como Via de conexi6n con el acceso Sur a Asuncion, para la readecuaci6n
hidraulica de la Ruta N° 1, construcci6n de caseta de peaje en la Ruta N° 1,
iluminaci6n de los cruces Ita, Guarambare, Ypane y sefializaci6n vertical en p6rtico.
Obra 111: Circunvalaci6n de la Ciudad de Asunci6n
Tramo: 4 Mojones-Defensores del Chaco-Madame Lynch-Empalme Ruta N° 9
1)   Ejecuci6n de un canal revestido de hormig6n complementado con un muro de
contenci6n superior de mamposter[a de piedra bruta, en sustituci6n del canal de
mamposter[a de piedra bruta y solera de hormig6n, previsto en el proyecto original. Se
plante6 como consecuencia de las necesidades de incluir el revestimiento del canal,
que de no efectuarse, las erosiones originarian su colapso, y la modificaci6n completa
de las conducciones de los aportes pluviales laterales de pista por variaciones de las
condiciones originales de escurrimiento, caudales y parametros de diseno.
2)    Los proyectos de Viaductos, del diseno de la via, del drenaje superficial de
pista, de excavaciones de bolsones de pista, de excavaci6n comun, eliminaci6n del
item subrasante mejorada con cal, modificaci6n del paquete estructural para calzada
existente, y de obras complementarias debido a la eliminaci6n de tuneles peatonales.
3)    Como consecuencia de la interrupci6n de las obras de alcantarillado sanitario
programadas por Corposana, por cancelaci6n del Prestamo del BIRF, el MOPC tuvo
que incluir en el Proyecto la parte del alcantarillado que interfiere esta obra.
4)    Modificaci6n de pista y aportes laterales, y la creaci6n de nuevos items: cambio
de canal abierto por estructuras celulares en zonas puntuales, estructura de
-40 -



disipaci6n, incorporaci6n de cruce vehicular y puentes peatonales sobre el canal,
extensi6n del empalme con la Ruta a Villa Elisa, incorporaci6n de cruces semaf6ricos,
rampas peatonales de hormig6n armado, calles laterales de viaductos, drenajes
superficial y profundo de pista y calles adyacentes, pavimentaci6n de calles afectadas
por los aportes de desagOes fluviales
Obra IV: Rehabilitaci6n y Pavimentaci6n de la Ruta 3
Tramo: Limpio - Emboscada - Acceso Norte a Asunci6n
1)    Elevar la rasante en zona Ilana y plana sin cursos definidos de drenajes y con
suelos de baja calidad, y ejecuci6n de pedraplen en tramos donde la rasante tiene
poca altura y agua subterranea a poca profundidad, aumentar la longitud de pilotes,
sustituci6n de viviendas, oficinas, y laboratorio, por casetas.
2)    Mejorar el diseho de las banquinas y los drenajes ante el incremento sensible
del volumen de transito
3)    Por exigencias ambientales se incluye construcci6n de cunetas revestidas de
hormig6n para evitar erosiones en los taludes de la obra.
4)    Modificar las cantidades de excavaci6n tipo C (Roca), alcantarilla de Hormig6n
Armado, Hormig6n estructural, varillas de acero, pedraplen, empedrados con cord6n
de hormig6n, por la aparici6n de roca en la zona urbana de Emboscada, empalmes
con calles nuevas, existencias de zonas inestables con basuras y agua.
Obra V: Recapado Ruta 6 'Dr. Juan L. Mallorquin",
Tramo Norte (Empalme Ruta 7 - Km. 100)
Por el desfasafaje producido entre la epoca del diseno y la ejecuci6n de la Obra, por la
determinaci6n exacta de los c6mputos metricos, y por las pruebas realizadas sobre
metodos constructivos, se introdujeron modificaciones de las cantidades de excavaci6n
en roca, alcantarillas de hormig6n armado para nuevos accesos, sustituci6n de
barandas de hormig6n en puentes, imprimaci6n asfaltica, riego de liga, bacheo con
concreto asfaltico incrementado por la aparici6n de nuevas fallas superficiales, y
sustituci6n de Geotextil por concreto asfaltico.
Obra VI: PROGRAMA PILOTO DE ESTABILIZACION DE SUELOS DE CAMINOS
VECINALES
El programa ha sido desarrollo por la Direcci6n de Caminos Vecinales, y consisti6 en la
construcci6n de pistas de pruebas de 500 metros por cada producto estabilizante, en
diferentes tramos de caminos de tierra, con diferentes tipos de suelo, siendo ejecutados los
Trabajos en cinco tramos de la Regi6n Oriental y dos tramos de la Regi6n Occidental,
totalizando 27.8 Km, han sido utilizados productos de distintas procedencias; y los resultados
han sido satisfactorios en cuanto se ha podido llegar a realizar una evaluaci6n del
comportamiento de los productos estabilizantes con los diferentes tipos de suelo, sin
embargo, es necesario continuar el sistema de monitoreo y evaluaci6n que incluya los
-41 -



estudios de transito antes y despues de la ejecuci6n de los trabajos, la medici6n del grado de
deterioro de cada tramo, impacto ambiental positivo y negativo y el analisis econ6mico.
En resumen, los beneficios del Proyecto resultaron altamente provechosos, inicialmente con la
dinamizaci6n de la actividad econ6mica en las areas de influencia a traves de la generaci6n
de empleo, y globalmente por los beneficios directos en los costos operativos de los vehiculos
con una significativa rentabilidad, especialmente en las vfas de acceso a Asunci6n; Con
respecto a los beneficios indirectos, bienestar de la poblaci6n, mejoramiento de la
competitividad de los productos de exportaci6n y mayor estabilidad econ6mica interna del
pafs, se ha observado un crecimiento sustancial que ha favorecido a la poblaci6n en general.
PROGRAMA DE FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL MOPC
Los cambios de Gobierno ocurrido desde agosto de 1998, han motivado un atraso de la
aprobaci6n definitiva del informe final del consultor, y la puesta en marcha del Plan de Acci6n
propuesto. Sin embargo, se pueden puntualizar avances significativos logrados en el sector
de la organizaci6n y gesti6n administrativa, y actividades tales como la creaci6n del comite de
Planificaci6n como organismo Tecnico-Consultivo de planificacion estrategica, tactica y
operativa del MOPC, y del Comite de Recursos Humanos para el desarrollo y la
implementaci6n del Plan de Accion propuesto.
En el sector transporte y, con la promulgaci6n de la Ley NO 1590, se crea el nuevo marco legal
del sector transporte. Dicha Ley regula el sistema nacional de transporte, creando la Direcci6n
Nacional de Transporte (DINATRAN), ente autartico, encargado de dictar normas y administrar
el transporte terrestre nacional e internacional de pasajeros, cargas y servicios especiales. La
citada Ley, crea tambien la Secretaria del Transporte del Area Metropolitana de Asunci6n
(SETAMA), encargada de dictar normas y administrar el transito y transporte terrestre en la
citada Area.
Considerando que la Ley NO 1590 tiene falencias en la competencia y coordinaci6n entre
DINATRAN y la SETAMA, el MOPC esta estudiando las propuestas de modificaci6n de la
citada norma Legal.
Referente al fortalecimiento de la Unidad Ambiental del MOPC, se han incorporado recursos
humanos, se la dot6 de infraestructura fisica apropiada, y se han adquirido los equipos
informaticos, y libros de texto para mejorar su capacidad de gesti6n.. En este ambito se
realiz6 en la etapa final de implementaci6n del Proyecto, un estudio de evaluaci6n de los
Programas y Medidas de Mitigaci6n Ambiental aplicados en la construcci6n de las obras del
Octavo Proyecto de Carreteras, cuyas conclusiones principales muestran la escasa
participaci6n de la Unidad Ambiental en el proceso de preparaci6n del Proyecto y de la
ejecuci6n del mismo, recomendandose que en futuros proyectos se corrija esta deficiencia.
PLAN MAESTRO ACCESO DE ASUNCION
El estudio del Plan Maestro Accesos de Asunci6n, realizado por la Consultora
LatinoConsult-Comycsa, ha sido entregado y puesto a consideraci6n de los municipios
afectados por el estudio recomendando su implementaci6n. El trabajo incluy6 un plan de
inversiones de obras y acciones institucionales tendientes a mejorar la circulaci6n del transito
automotor en los accesos principales, mejorar el drenaje de areas criticas evitando la clausura
en los dfas de Iluvias, disminuir el numero de accidentes de transito y poner en marcha
-42 -



programas de educaci6n vial.
Ill.  DESEMPEF4O DEL PRESTATARIO
Es importante resaltar la decisi6n y el compromiso del Gobierno del Paraguay con el Banco
Mundial para el diseno y ejecuci6n del Octavo Proyecto de Carreteras, asi como el
cumplimiento de las obligaciones establecidas en el Convenio de Pr6stamo, especialmente en
la implantaci6n del Marco Legal del sector Transporte, del Registro Nacional de Vehiculos, y el
fortalecimiento Institucional, impulsando la optimizaci6n de la gesti6n administrativa,
procurando mejoras financieras en el ambito de los derechos de los usuarios.
Se califica de satisfactorio el desempeno realizado por el Prestatario (Gobiemo, MOPC,
Organismos Ejecutores), lograndose alcanzar al termino del Proyecto con los objetivos y la
mayoria de las metas previstas, y utilizar casi en su totalidad los fondos disponibles. El interes
y responsabilidad demostrados en los aspectos tecnicos y administrativos, y las
coordinaciones permanentes con el Banco, permitieron la identificaci6n y soluci6n oportuna de
los problemas, que en determinados casos obligaron a reajustes o modificaciones de metas
que asegurasen el logro del Proyecto.
Es importante resaltar que la preparaci6n del Proyecto fue altamente compleja en la definici6n
de las obras civiles, debido a la faita de experiencia local en este tipo de obras, para plantear
las soluciones a los problemas que se presentaban. Se requiri6 de una intensa y estrecha
actividad de coordinaci6n entre los Organismos involucrados del Estado y el Banco,
considerando la premura del Gobierno de mejorar las vias de acceso a la Capital, y por el otro
lado lo prolongado de los procedimientos que establecen las Normas del Banco, por lo que no
fue posible asignar tiempos prudentes que permitieran lograr oportunamente todas las metas
previstas, terminar todas las actividades prioritarias, y realizar las evaluaciones respectivas en
las areas tecnicas, econ6micas, financieras, institucionales y medio ambiente. Asimismo, a fin
de ayudar al M.O.P.C. buscando asegurar los resultados, se contrataron los servicios de
consultorfas especializadas que apoyaron en la elaboraci6n de Terminos de Referencia y
Bases, en el desarrollo y revisi6n de los Estudios para la ejecuci6n de las obras.
Con respecto a la etapa de ejecuci6n, el cumplimiento de los programas de actividades
desarrollados para cada componente asi como el seguimiento de los indicadores claves de
implementaci6n y de desempeno, facilit6 el logro de practicamente todas las metas
establecidas y/o revisadas. Durante esta etapa, se revisaron las metas de los componentes y
los montos asignados, y en concordancia con el Banco Mundial se reajustaron algunas metas,
principalmente por mayores costos de inversi6n que los inicialmente previstos, resultado de
los Concursos y Licitaciones llevados a cabo.
Es importante senalar que durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto se produjeron cambios de
Gobierno, hechos que no tuvieron incidencias negativas, puesto que todas las autoridades
que se sucedieron demostraron una amplia identificacion con el proyecto, coadyuvando tanto
al M.O.P.C. como los Organismos Ejecutores para realizar las funciones tecnicas y
administrativas pertinentes, que tuvieron en consecuencia, un desempenio satisfactorio,
mejorando la calidad de los resultados a medida que transcurri6 el Proyecto.
Con el Octavo Proyecto de Carreteras se implementaron por primera vez los nuevos
documentos estandarizados, y procedimientos de cumplimiento obligatorio establecidos en las
-43-



Normas del Banco, que en esos momentos no eran de conocimiento ni de aplicaci6n regular
en los sistemas vigentes en el M.O.P.C., por lo que los Organismos Ejecutores demoraron un
precioso tiempo a fin de adecuar, innovar y aplicar todas las actividades y procesos tecnico -
administrativos, a las mencionadas normativas, lo que represent6 un riesgo para alcanzar a
cabalidad los objetivos y las metas propuestas. Ademas, como dichos documentos no
resultaron muy claros, durante la ejecuci6n del Proyecto ha generado frecuentes discusiones
por las diferentes interpretaciones que se les dio.
IV.   DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
La permanente participaci6n del Banco durante las etapas de preparaci6n, evaluaci6n y
supervisi6n fue muy importante para el logro de los objetivos y metas, brindando continuo
asesoramiento administrativo y operativo en todos los niveles, lo que facilit6 superar
contratiempos y dificultades que se fueron presentando durante el desarrollo del Proyecto.
Igualmente, a traves de las visitas de las misiones y comunicaciones realizadas desde
Washington, los funcionarios del Banco demostraron inter6s, experiencia y conocimiento,
coordinando y dialogando con los diferentes Organismos del Estado y en determinados casos
interviniendo en reuniones de trabajo con los consultores, proponiendo acciones y/o
altemativas con el prop6sito de solucionar los problemas suscitados.
El Banco desde los trabajos de preparaci6n demostr6 una amplia identificaci6n con los
objetivos del Proyecto, que coincidian con ia Estrategia Integral del Gobierno en promover el
desarrollo de pais, fomentando la producci6n agropecuaria, por medio de la reducci6n de los
costos de transporte, construyendo y manteniendo una  infraestructura vial en buenas
condiciones, y a la vez se afirmaban bases s6lidas para promover el fortalecimiento, la
organizaci6n y la capacidad del M.O.P.C..
En la etapa de evaluaci6n inicial, el Banco a traves de un grupo profesional multidisciplinario
cumpli6 una labor de analisis y revisi6n del trabajo realizado en la primera etapa, identificando
los posibles riesgos que implicaria la ejecuci6n del Octavo Proyecto de Carreteras, y
aportando soluciones concretas, obteniendose como producto final el Informe de Evaluaci6n
NO 11305-PA del 24 de noviembre de 1993, en el que se analiza detalladamente el sector
transporte y la situaci6n econ6mica del pais, los objetivos y caracteristicas del Proyecto, los
acuerdos alcanzados y las recomendaciones para la ejecuci6n 6ptima del mismo.
Ya durante la implementaci6n del Proyecto, en el proceso de contrataci6n de las obras civiles,
se hizo notoria la falta de agilidad para acordar oportunamente con el M.O.P.C., ya sea de los
terminos de las bases y condiciones de los documentos de precalificaci6n y licitaci6n, o de la
evaluaci6n de las propuestas recibidas.
En la etapa de supervisi6n, el Banco asisti6 continuamente al M.O.P.C. a traves de visitas al
pars por las misiones, equipos de trabajo y comunicaciones desde Washington, evaluando los
avances y logros obtenidos, colaborando en la identificaci6n y soluci6n de problemas,
formulando recomendaciones y aprobando requerimientos, mostrando celeridad y flexibilidad
a propuestas planteadas por el M.O.P.C., con el afan de superar dificultades y optimizar la
ejecuci6n del Proyecto. En casos especificos con prontitud aprobaron la modificaci6n parcial o
total de metas y la consiguiente reestructuraci6n de los costos del Proyecto. Asimismo, las
respuestas del Banco a solicitudes de No Objeci6n en terminos de tiempo razonables,
principalmente para asuntos de tramite de presupuestos adicionales de obra y supervisi6n
- 44 -



permitieron el normal desenvolvimiento de los trabajos.
V.    LECCIONES CLAVES APRENDIDAS PARA FUTUROS PROYECTOS
En la fase de preparaci6n de los proyectos para la estructuraci6n de los cronogramas de
actividades (estudios y obras), debe tenerse en cuenta tiempos razonables y flexibles que
permitan cumplir adecuadamente con los trabajos requeridos en tiempos prudentes, a fin de
no arriesgar la calidad de los trabajos. En el caso especifico de proyectos viales, los ubicados
en zonas urbanas o suburbanas, considerando los cambios dinamicos que se producen en su
entorno, es conveniente delimitar tramos cortos para contrataci6n de obras, en lo posible no
mayores de 7 Km., con plazos estimados entre 12 y 18 meses, ya que facilita un mejor
manejo de gesti6n y el cumplimiento de las obligaciones contractuales; ademas, debe
evaluarse con mucho esmero las paralizaciones causadas por las Iluvias y sus consecuencias
para los fuertes periodos de lluvia en el verano.
Durante la realizaci6n de los Estudios previos (desde la Factibilidad hasta el Diseno Final),
ademas de establecer los tiempos prudenciales, es indispensable un buen control de calidad,
si es necesario contratando profesionales especializados en supervisi6n de proyectos, dando
especial atenci6n a los estudios topograficos, geol6gicos, hidrol6gicos, climatol6gicos y
ambientales, con enfasis en la fase de investigaci6n de campo, pruebas de suelo y subsuelo;
Asimismo, debe estudiarse minuciosamente la soluci6n de puntos criticos, banquinas
apropiadas, el disenio de drenajes eficientes, la mitigaci6n de impactos ambientales negativos
y la optimizaci6n de la seguridad vial en todos los tramos. Los Terminos de Referencia de
Diseffos finales de Ingenieria deben incluir los trabajos necesarios para que el M.O.P.C. tenga
liberada la franja de dominio donde se implementaran las obras viales, y estimar
prudentemente el tiempo que insumiria estas actividades, a efectos de incluir en los
cronogramas pertinentes. La aprobaci6n de los Estudios Finales de Ingenieria debe ser muy
exigente, ya que se asegura la culminaci6n exitosa de las obras, caso contrario durante la
ejecuci6n se presentaran defectos, deficiencias u omisiones, que podrian generar retrasos y
presupuestos adicionales con porcentajes muy elevados en relacion con el presupuesto
establecido en el contrato, poniendo en riesgo los objetivos del Proyecto.
Los Estudios Finales de Ingenieria de obras viales, requieren adicionalmente de una revisi6n
especializada en el aspecto de seguridad vial, con el objetivo de reducir los problemas
relacionados a los disenios, lo que permitira minimizar significativamente los posibles gastos
futuros por modificaciones o correcciones posteriores. Es importante considerar en los
terminos de referencia para los Estudios, los conceptos fundamentales de seguridad vial y
durante la fase de construcci6n la aplicacion de auditorias.
Para futuros concursos o licitaciones, con el prop6sito de optimizar resultados y evitar poner
en riesgo la culminaci6n oportuna de estudios u obras durante la selecci6n, el M.O.P.C. ha
propulsado la nueva Ley de Obras Publicas, por la que se creo la DINOP (Direcci6n Nacional
de Obras Publicas) y esta en pleno funcionamiento. Ademas ya esta promulgada la "Ley
General de Concesiones de Obras y Servicios Publicos", con la que se trata de dar seguridad
juridica a la participaci6n del sector privado en las Obras Publicas. Hacia estos objetivos
tambien esta encaminando sus acciones la Secretaria Nacional de la Reforma del Estado. De
todas maneras, la implementacion de todas estas disposiciones legales vigentes van a
requerir del apoyo de instituciones y de expertos, donde la participaci6n del Banco sera muy
importante
- 45 -



Se requiere en el mediano plazo implementar un "Plan Nacional de Inversiones Viales" que
optimice integralmente los ambitos operacional, mantenimiento y rehabilitaci6n, coadyuvando
con la reducci6n de los costos del transporte y consecuentemente con la disminuci6n de
precios de los productos de consumo interno como de exportaci6n. En tal sentido es
indispensable en el corto plazo, elaborar y administrar un "Banco Central de Informaci6n", que
reuna datos de todos los proyectos ejecutados y en proceso, con la problematica y soluciones
aplicadas, analisis de estructuras de costos estimados y/o propuestos, ofertas presentadas
por los contratistas y validaciones durante la ejecuci6n de las obras. Igualmente, es necesario
contar con una "Cartera de Proyectos" que posibilite con eficiencia acceder a informaci6n
tecnica y financiera de los Proyectos que se encuentren listos para llevarse a cabo, ordenados
en forma prioritaria y que a la vez permita la identificaci6n de los diversos requerimientos para
su ejecuci6n con los respectivos planes de aprovisionamiento.
Se debe propiciar y dinamizar la elaboraci6n y actualizaci6n permanente de publicaciones
tecnicas, que procuren establecer normas y manuales, faciliten el manejo y mejoren los
resultados de estudios y de obras, considerandose entre los de mayor prioridad los manuales:
"Estandarizaci6n de Costos para el Disefno de Carreteras", "Diseno Geometrico de
Carreteras", "Especificaciones Tecnicas Generales para la Construcci6n de Carreteras",
"Computo metrico y Presupuestos en Materia Vial", "Supervisi6n de Obras", "Supervisi6n de
Estudios", . "Normas Nacionales de Seffalizaci6n Vial" y "Normas de Protecci6n al Medio
Ambiente".
En el campo de las evaluaciones economicas ex-ante como ex-post de obras viales, para que
puedan ser comparables y obtener resultados reales de los beneficios obtenidos, es necesario
que los conteos de trafico se realicen en similares estaciones (puntos geograficos) y que los
estudios de trafico utilicen factores de correcci6n estacional adecuados y actualizados, que
eviten distorsi6n en los valores de los indicadores de rentabilidad y efectos negativos en la
generaci6n de beneficios.
En el aspecto de entrenamiento, con el prop6sito de optimizar futuras gestiones, es
conveniente invertir y profundizar especialmente en puntos crfticos, como:
a.    Programas de capacitaci6n orientado a los profesionales y tecnicos del M.O.P.C., para
el conocimiento y aplicaci6n de nuevas tecnologfas de la construcci6n y mantenimiento; asf
como de procedimientos de caracter administrativo, dando especial atencion a la organizacion
de expedientes, adicionales, pr6rrogas y otros.
b.    Propiciar la capacitaci6n y actualizaci6n peri6dica de los profesionales y t6cnicos de
las empresas privadas que prestan o estan interesadas en brindar servicios como
proyectistas, constructores, supervisores y otras modalidades.
Para futuros Proyectos de la magnitud y complejidad del Octavo Proyecto de Carreteras,
resulta imprescindible contar con una Unidad de Coordinaci6n conformada por un equipo de
profesionales especializados y multidisciplinario, que sea responsable de la gestion de
preparaci6n, seguimiento, monitoreo, coordinaci6n, control, informes y archivo de las diversas
actividades y avances de cada componente del Proyecto. Debe garantizarse en el Contrato de
Prestamo que la continuidad de los Profesionales de dicha Unidad, solo dependa del
desempeno relacionado al Proyecto. Esta Unidad debera constituirse en vfnculo permanente y
eficaz entre el Banco, el M.O.P.C., y los Organismos Ejecutores.
-46 -



ANEXO 1
COSTOS FINALES DEL PROYECTO
Cat.                    TOTAL                        %
COMPONENTES              de                                                 Banco
desemb    Costo total    Costo BIRF     Costo Local
NO        US$     |      US$      |     US$
Obras Civiles                           1
Obra 1- Acc. Sur, Paraguari - Ita         5,929,100.56    4,051,678.95   1,877,421.61  68
Obra 2-Acc. Sur, Ita - 4 Mojones         34,595,326.88   18,041,180.18  16,554,146.70  52
Obra 3-Circunvalacidn                    56,506,556.72   24,953,442.00  31,553,114.72  44
Obra 4-Acc. Norte, Limpio - Emboscada     4,978,357.20    2,188,544.55   2,789,812.65  44
Obra 5, Recapado 100 Km. Ruta 6           9,242,670.99    3,944,827.68   5,297,843.31  43
Adquisid6n de tierras                    13,000,000.00                  13,000,000.00  0
Obra 6-Estabilizaci6n de Caminos Vecinales  300,000.00       97,219.63    202,780.37  32
124,552,012.35   53,276,892.99  71,275,119.3614
Eguipos                                 2
Para el DEyC de la DV                       24,994.00       21,244.90       3,749.10  85
Libros de Textos Ambientales                 1,887.75        1,887.75                100
Para la UA                                  15,813.00                      15,813.00  0
42,694.75       23,132.65      19,562.10| 54
Consultorfa y Capacit.                  3
Supervisi6n Obra 1 Y 2                    2,029,092.33    1,839,327.79     46,051.93  91
Supervisi6n Obra 3                        2,849,515.28    2,537,145.08     312,370.20  89
Supervisi6n Obra 4                        1,335,693.44    1,335,693.44               100
Supervisi6n Obra 5                         632,283.56      632,283.56                100
Disenio Ruta 6                             301,751.38      301,751.36                100
Sup.Plan Piloto Est.Suelos                 283,779.49      239,676.96       15,659.49  84
Fortalec.institucional Fase 1             1,254,573.76    1,254,573.76               100
Fortalec.lnsttitucional Fase 2             983,245.97      917,847.97      65,398.00  93
Fortalecimiento Unidad Ambiental            50,000.00       50,000.00                100
Est. Plan Maestro de Accesos a Asunci6n    248,103.00      248,103.00                100
Capacitaci6n                                 39,010.15       39,010.15               100
Auditora                                     11,164.53       11,164.53               100
Coordinaci6n                                36,421.13       36,011.82                 99
10,054,634.02    9,442,589.42    439,479.621  94
PPF                                     4        223,037.92      223,037.92
Otros pagos segun liquidaci6n BIRF-PPF    1,338,677.05    1,338,677.05
Otros pagos segun liquidaci6n BIRF-PPF      136,285.03     136,285.03
1,698,000.00    1,698,000.00
No desembolsado                                    1,698.00        5,274.94
Dep6sito Cta. Especial no utilizado                              554,110.00
TOTALES                   1 136,347,341.121  650,000,000.00  71,734,161.080  48
-47-



ANEX0 2
VARIACION DE LOS COSTOS DE OBRAS CIVILES
Valor inicial  Valor inicial  varacion  Valor Actual con  variacion
Obras Civiles              Estimado     Contratado  ContJ./ Est  modificadones  Act. / Contr.
US$          US$                       US$           %
Obra 1- Acc. Sur, Paraguari - Ita         3,300,000     4,608,163    40           5,929,101    29
Obra 2-Acc. Sur, Ita - 4 Mojones         18,400,000    24,958,563    36          34,595,327    39
Obra 3-Circunvalaci6n                    26,900,000    47,000,134    75          56,506,557    20
Obra 4-Acc. Norte, Limpio - Emboscada     6,200,000     4,521,808   -27           4,978,357    10
Obra 5, Recapado 100 Km. Ruta 6           4,600,000     6,761,985    47           9,242,671    37
Obra 6-Estabilizacd6n de Caminos Vecinales  1,000,000     300,000   -70             300,000    0
TOTAL           -         60,400,0001  88,150,654    46          111,552,0121  27
-48 -



- -   ____-                        :..~0--  M  -~,OV L.C R*Q 
V        *~~~~  1%  0  Onenpos...-.'>ou   I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~MR ALONSO
A         *  *~~~~ Widen lo 4-Lons,.e-...                  O R
Rehobikfol,                                     UQDOEJ I
p       - -       EJew~~~~~~~~N  2-Lon  Rood
G-fitun E;ohs Surf-on d  Roods 
(4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'GAI- IA--4-5                       JNE
X ,~~~~~~~~~/.
To Ennornocido  Poroguce  B  ~., A-        R. 
/  7/        fl..2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
007 ASA5V                                      OMqow   SonomAnn
.                         n                       Neeby     Proont.~~~~~~4y 
... :RCAECTJ             GUA
ETUM NOU  U  ACED   OAD-                   (Z     NOT  O SCLE)Ro PooNoTi'N
I >   R
<CCh
01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
51 j,"~~~~.



