Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11305-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Guarani (G)
1 US$ = G/. 1,800 (October, 1993)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANNP          -             National Ports and Navigation Administration
CAPECO        -             Chamber of Paraguayan Grain and Seed-oil Exporters
CIF           -             Cost, Insurance and Freight
CGN           -             Comptroller General of the Nation
DPS           -             Department of Property and Supplies
DE            -             DRH's Department of Execution
DM            -             DRH's Department of Maintenance
DEC           -             DRH's Department of Evaluation and Control
DRVR          -             Directorate General of Village Roads
MMD           -             Merchant Marine Department
DPP           -             DRH's Department of Planning and Projects
DRFR          -             Directorate of Forest Resources
DRH           -             Directorate of Highways
FCCAL         -             President Carlos Antonio L6pez Railway
FEC           -             Foreign Exchange Component
FLOMERES   -                The State Merchant Marine Fleet
GDP           -             Gross Domestic Product
HDM           -             Highways Design and Maintenance Model
ICB           -             International Competitive Bidding
IDB           -             Inter American Development Bank
JICA          -             Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LCB           -             Local Competitive Bidding
MAG           -             Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOF           -             Ministry of Finance
MOPC          -             Ministry of Public Works and Communications
OECF          -             Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
OPIT          -             Transport Planning Office
PPF           -             World Bank's Project Preparation Facility
SOE           -             Statement of Expenditure
USecPWC       -             Undersecretariat of Public Works and Communications
USecT         -             Undersecretariat of Transport
USecA&F       -             Undersecretariat of Administration and Finance



PARAGUAY                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ....                       ..      ....................             iII
1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ......1...................... 
A. Background ..1.......                                       *.*.                   I
B. Organization of the Transport Sctor ....................                          2
C. Transport Sector Investments  .......................                             3
D. Highway ............                 ........................                     3
E. Ports and Waterways  ............................                                 4
F. Railways ............                ........................                     S
0. Air Trawport   .........                .......................                   S
H. Sector Planning .........                .......................                   5
!. Previous Bank Experience with Transport Projects  ....               ......        6
J. Prospctive Bank Actions ..........................                                 7
2. THE HIGHWAYS SUBSECTOR .................                                                    9
A. The Highways System   ...........................                                 9
B. Highway Administration  ..........................                                9
C. Highway Planning  ..............................                                 12
D. Highway Expdtrs, Financg, Cost Recvry, Future Expdtrs .... ..                    13
E. Highways and the Environment ......................                              16
F. TheRoadTransportIndustry   .......................                               17
3. THE PROJECT .....................................                                          19
A. Background  ..........                ........................                   19
B. Project Objectives  ..............................                               20
C. Project Description   .............................                              21
D. Project Preparation   .............................                              23
E. Project Costs  ..........               .......................                  24
F. Project Financing ...............................                                26
G. Project Implementation  ...........................                              26
H. Procurement ..........                ........................                   27
I. Disbursements .                                                                  28
J. Special Account, Disbursements and Auditing .29
K. Reporting Requirements, Project Monitoring and Consultations .                   29
L. Socio-Environrental Impact ..........              ..      ............          30
4. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION   ...........                     ..       ..............           34
A. Economic Analysis  .............................                                 34
B. Project Rism   .................................                                 37
S. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  .......                            ..      .........        39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Iamm
Project Costs  ...............  ..  ..  ...  ..  ...  ..  ...  .        .    25
Financing Plan  .........            .........................               26
Procurement ....................................                             28
1.1 Public Investment in Transport .....................                     41
1.2 Expected Public Investment in Transport (1992-1996) .......              42
1.3 Ports Traffic (1990) ............................                        43
1.4 Shipping Fleet  ...............................                          44
2.1 National Highway Network (1991) ...................                      45
2.2 MOPC Budgetary Execution by Type of Expdtre (1985-1993)                  46
2.3 MOPC Budgetary Execution by Source of Fincg (1985-1993) .                50
2.4 MOPC Maintenance and Investment Expdtre (1985-92, 1993-98)               54
2.5 Taxes Collected from Road Users  ...................                     55
2.6  MOPC Highway Investment Program (1993-1998) .........                   56
2.7 Road Transport Companies  .......................                        58
3.1 Cuatro Mojones - Rt.9 Traffic at Main Intersections ....       ....      59
3.2 Road Improvements - Cost Summary  .................                      60
3.3 Civil Works Financial Execution Schedule  ....            .........      61
3.4 Implementation Schedule .........................                        62
3.5  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements  .................                  63
4.1  Paraguarf - Ita Average Daily Traffic  .................                64
4.2  Paraguarf - ItA Cost/Benefit Streams ..................                 65
4.3  Ita - Cuatro Mojones Traffic Estimates  ................                66
4.4 Ita - Cuatro Mojones Cost/Benefit Streams ....           ..........      67
4.5  Cuatro Mojones - Rt.9 Traffic Estimates ...............                 68
4.6 Cuatro Mojones - Rt.9 Cost/Benefit Streams ....           .........      69
4.7 Cuatro Mojones - Rt.9 Storm Drainage Cost/Benefit Stream  ...            70
4.8 Limpio - Emboscada Traffic Estimates  ................                   71
4.9 Limpio - Emboscada Cost/Benefit Streams ....             ..........      72
Annexes
1. External Assistance to the Highway Sub-sector ....          ........      73
2. Detailed Description of Project Works  .................                  77
3. Pilot Earth-Road Stabilization Program  .................                 81
4. Terms of Reference Improvements Ytay and Lambare Creeks . ..              83
5. Terms of Reference Asuncidn Transport Master Plan Study  ....             91
6. Terms of Rcference TA to Strengthen MOPC's Management . ..                95
7. Strengthening MOPC's Environmental Unit ....              ..........      97
8. Strengthening DH's Planning and Projects Department ....          ...     99
9. Terms of Reference National Vehicle Registry  ....          ........     101
10. Paraguayan vs. Bank Procurement Practices  ......           .......    105
11. Environmental Impact Assessment ........ ..             ..........      109
12. Selected Documents in the Project File ...... ..         .........      129
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works as of June 1993    .....    131
IBRD  24199 Eighth Highway Project ....................                     132



PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Paraguay
Executing Agency:   Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC)
Loan Amount:        US$ 65.0 million equivalent
Tams:               Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:   The proposed project is principally aimed at strengthening
MOPC's organization and promoting team-work at its highest
level, thus, improving its capacity to deliver good roads and a
well maintained network. This objective would be accomplished
through the financing of selective technical assistance and train-
ing and of civil works. The latter would, in addition, ease the
problems of rapid urbanization, and: (a) reduce environmental
hazards and the nuisance caused by frequent floods along Asun-
ci6n's ringroad; (b) expedite exports by facilitating the use of
alternative ports, (c) lower the costs of trucking soybean exports
to the Brazilian border; (d) enhance DH highway design and
roadworks planning capability, (e) improve environmental as-
sessment skills at the ministry; and (f) assist in establishing a
National Vehicle Registry.
The proposed project is framed within the Bank's country assis-
tance strategy of addressing the physical constraints and social
pressures arising out of the rural-urban migration that results
from the high rural population growth of Paraguay and a declin-
ing agricultural frontier. The strategy calls also for support to
exports by upgrading the transport infrastructure.
After a seven year lending gap in Paraguay, Bank activities must
also be cognizant of, and blend in with the activities of other do-
nors. The proposed project would complement the considerable
assistance included in parallel IDB and OECF projects: these
deal with improving the national highway network and improving
maintenance, and are based on developing stronger in-house
capabilities at MOPC to carry them out (Annex 1). The tech-
nical assistance in the project would move in a different direc-
tion, however, namely to help MOPC organize itself to contract
with the private sector the maintenance, construction, planning,
engineering services, and other tasks MOPC has to carry out.
This approach would allow MOPC staff to coordinate and man-
age the program rather than do it themselves. An initial step in
the new direction is to develop stronger internal team work and
coordination in the decision making and implementation, while
at the same time ensuring that systems are in place that allow
efficient and effective performance.



- iv -
Project Description:  The proposed project would include:
A. Civil Works
road improvements: improving the road sections between Para-
guarf - Ita; Ita - Gurambare - Ypand - Nemby -Cuatro Mojones;
Cuatro Mojones - Defensores del Chaco - Madame Lynch - Jct.
Rt.9; and Limpio - Emboscada;
road rehabilitation: resurface 100 km of Rt.6 from its junction
with Rt.7 to km 100;
pilot unpaved-road stabilization program: treat 80 km of unpaved
roads with sulfonated oils to test whether the process adapts and
is implementable in Paraguay;
B. Consultine Services
engineering services to: supervise the civil works, engineer the
pilot unpaved road stabilization program, design the Rt.6 resur-
facing works, and engineer and design the to improvements to
the Ytay and Lambare creeks;
studies: the Asunci6n Transportation Master Plan study;
technical assistance: a management review of MOPC, assistance
to the environmental unit, strengthening DH's highway design
and roadwork planning capabilities, and implementation of a
national vehicle registry; and
C. Equipment
procurement of computers to implement the national vehicle
registry, and equipment and machines for a soils and materials
laboratory.
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Local        Foreign      Total
IBRD                              9.4           55.6         65.0
Government of Paraguay           25.0            -           25.0
Total Project Costs              34.4           55.6         90.0



v -
Estimated Costs:
(June 1992 US$ million)
Description          Local  Foreign   Total   Foreign Cost
Cost    Cost    Cost   as % of Item
Civil Works
Road Improvements
Paraguarf - lta (Rt.1)       1.2      2.1     3.3         65
Ita - Cuatro Mojones         6.4    12.0    18.4          65
Cuatro Mojones - Jct.Rt.9    9.4    17.5    26.9          65
Limpio - Emboscada (Rt.3)    2.2      4.0     6.2         65
Land Acquisition             4.6      0.0     4.6          0
Resurfacing Rt.6               2.1      4.0     6.1         65
Stabilization Program          0.4      0.6      1.0        65
Sub-Total Civil Works         26.3    40.2    66.5          60
Consulting Services
Engineering
Civil Works Supervision      1.6      2.4     4.0
Design Rehabilitation of Rt.6    0.1  0.1      0.2
Pilot Stabilization Program           0.1     0.1
Engineering Design of Creeks    0.1   0.2     0.3
PPF Engineering Services              1.1      1.1
Studies
Asunci6n Trspt. Master Plan  0.2      0.3     0.5
PPF Environmental Studies             0.1     0.1
Technical Assistance & Training
MOPC Management Asstce.               1.0      1.0
Environmental Unit                    0.1     0.1
DPP Strengthening                     0.1     0.1
National Vehicle Registry             1.0      1.0
PPF TA Expenditures                   0.3     0.3
Sub-Total Consulting Services  2.0      6.8     8.8         75
Equipment                       0.1      0.4      0.5        80
Base Cost                      28.4    47.4    75.8          62
Physical Contingencies          2.9      4.7      7.6
Price Contingencies             2.4      4.2      6.6
Total Cost                     33.7    56.3    90.0          62



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements:
(USS million)
By the End of Fiscal Year            Anmial                     Cumulative                   Prcentage
1994                         0.0                          0.0                           0
1995                         10.0                         10.0                          15
1996                         16.4                        26.4                          41
1997                         16.0                         42.4                          65
199S                         15.3                        57.7                          39
1999                         7.3                         63.0                          100
Estimated Rates of Return:
Road section                  Estimated           ERR
economic cost
(G/.bin.)          (M)
Paraguari - Iti                         4.3              3.9
Iil - Cuatro Mojonce                   27.6             14.3
Custro Mojones - Rio 9                 43.9             27.4
Limpio - Emboacada                     9.2              10.8
This project was appraised in June/July IM  by Mr. William Matthey (Sr. Highway Engineer), it was revised, recast,
rdeveloped aad updated between Septemnber 19M  and September 1993 by Mr. Renato Schulz (Sr. Transponttion Economist
and Task Manager). Peer reviewers were Mssrs. C. Queiroz (engineer, EC31V) and M. Dick (economist, LATIE). Project
processing was supervised by Mr. A. Sanchez, Chief, Infrsttucture and Energy Division, Department IV, Latin America
and Caribbean Regional Office. Mr. Ping-Cheung Lob was Director of the Department.



1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR'
A. Background
1.1   Paraguay is a landlocked country in the center of South America between the
Parana, the Paraguay and the Pilcomayo rivers. It borders on Bolivia, Brazil and Argen-
tina. Its economy is based principally on the export of soybeans and cotton, which
together account for more than 70% of total export earnings. Because of the long dis-
tances to reach deep water ocean ports, the efficiency and costs of transportation are
critical to Paraguay's exports.
1.2   In 1990, the country's transport system moved about 20 million tons of freight
(close to 6.7 billion ton-km) and about 61,500 interurban passengers (roughly 11.8
million passenger-km). Ninety three percent of total domestic cargo shipments were by
road, 6% by river and 1% by rail. Interurban passengers moved 83% by bus, 16% on
cars, and 1 % by rail. Of the 1.5 million tons of grain and cotton exported, roads han-
dled about 50%, river transport about 36%, and rail the remaining 14%. Almost all rail
freight originated, however, at Encarnacidn, 5 km from the border with Argentina, and
moved on to Buenos Aires or to Nueva Palmira in Uruguay on the Argentinean and
Uruguayan railways.
1.3   The infrastructure that handled these transport volumes consists of about 28,000
km of roads (of which 2,600 km are paved); 376 km of trunk and 64 km of branch rail
lines; fifteen public river ports (of which only three: Asunci6n, Villeta and Encarnaci6n
are used for imports/exports); a number of privately owned ports and jetties; about 1,200
km of navigable waterways; and 2 international (Asunci6n and Ciudad del Este) and 43
domestic airports.
1.4   The trunk road network of the country is limited (3,800 km including the 2,600
paved roads) and, according to the most recent survey, not in the best of shapes (only
29% is in good condition while the rest is poorer). In particular, access roads to Asun-
cion are congested.
1.5   The track and rolling stock of the railway are more than 65 years old and badly
deteriorated. The railway has been included among the state-owned enterprises the
government would like to privatize2. Navigation on the Paraguay river is mostly limited
to day-time sailing below Asunci6n and more severely hampered upriver. The port of
I/    This section draws heavily on a number of studies carried out by the Ministry of
Public Works and Communications with Bank an other assistance. They include:
The National Transport Master Plan, Japanese International Cooperation Agency
(JICA), 1991; Export Corridors Study, SAE-CONTEC, 1991; Traffic Study on
the National Roads, SAE-CONTEC, 1989; Revenues and Financing National
Roads, SAE-CONTEC, 1991; Diagnosis and Recommendations on Weighing
Vehicles and Charging for the Use of Roads in Paraguay, Orb and Medina,
1991; National Transportation Plan 1990-1994, MOPC, 1990. These studies
have been placed in the Project File and the statistical and other information
contained in them has not been repeated in this report.
Z/    A law was passed in 1991 authorizing the government to privatize five state-
owned companies of which three are transport enterprises: the railway FCCAL,
the shipping company FLOMERES, and the airline LAP.



Asunci6n is surrounded by the city, has poor land-side access and is congested and thus,
the National Ports and Navigation Administration (ANNP) (with its own resources) is
improving the port of Villeta.
1.6   The Japanese Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and the Interameri-
can Development Bank (IDB) are financing a number of transportation projects for the
government. The first is helping MOPC to finance a large purchase of maintenance
equipment and some road resurfacings, and the second has four on-going projects: two
trunk roads projects one of which includes preparation of a national road maintenance
plan, and two rural roads projects. The IDB is also working with the ANNP on improv-
ing navigability on the Paraguay river3.
1.7   The proposed project would complement IDB and OECF's projects as it would
deal with areas in-and-around Asunci6n which are not touched by their projects. The
proposed project would help to improve traffic on the accesses to the city, and facilitate
use of the ports of Villeta (some 40 km from Asunci6n) and San Antonio (some 30 km
from Asunci6n); channeling traffic to them and away from Asunci6n is expected to
lessen, somewhat, congestion in the city and at the port.
B. Organization of the Transport Sector
1.8    Overall responsibility for the transport sector, including the formulation of trans-
port policy, planning, and coordination of investments, policies and regulation, rests with
the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC). MOPC also administers,
builds and maintains the public roads network and, through a loosely defined reporting
relationship, controls the National Ports and Navigation Administration (ANNP) which
is responsible for the operation and control of ports and navigable waterways, the Presi-
dent Carlos Antonio L6pez Railway Company (FCCAL) which runs the railway, and the
State Merchant Marine Fleet (FLOMERES) which operates river barges and a few ocean-
going ships. The Civil Aviation Department of the Ministry of Defence oversees the
airports infrastructure.
1.9    MOPC was reorganized in 1991. The new organization (see Chart) has four
under-secretariats: Public Works and Communications, Transport, Administration and
Finance, and Mines and Energy. While the new organization is a significant improve-
ment over the previous one, and generally adequate, there are some functions which
would have been better separated out (road maintenance, which is together with road
construction and would operate better on its own) and some which are subordinated units
and of little effectiveness (sector and highway planning; more on sector planning and
coordination in paras. 1.31..(a) to 1.30 below, and on highway planning in chapter 2).
1.10   The Undersecretary of Public Works and Communications is responsible for the
construction and maintenance of all roads (trunk, connector and village) and bridges.
The Undersecretary of Transport is responsible for the operation and regulation of road
and river transport services (including the traffic police), and through the state-owned
enterprises for rail, ports, waterways, and the merchant fleet. The Undersecretary of
Administration and Finance is responsible for the Ministry's budget, the treasury, ac-
counting, the administration of the Ministry's assets which include maintenance and
I/    A detailed account of the external assistance being provided to Paraguay is in
Annex 1.



- 3 -
workshop equipment, and personnel administration. The Undersecretariat of Mines and
Energy is a separate entity under the public works roof.
C. Transport Sector Investments
1.11   A few years back the transport sector was put under a rolling five-year invest-
ment plan administered by MOPC's Planning Office. This has worked out mostly as an
academic exercise in aggregating modal investment plans, rather than an exercise in
minimizing system life-time costs, or optimizing traffic. The National Transport Master
Plan Study and the Transport Corridors Study, both completed in 1991, would be a
reasonable basis on which to make investment decisions, yet they are hardly used for
planning purposes as most investment decision are ad-hoc and strongly conditioned by
bi- and multilateral donors interests.
1.12  In the five years 1985 to 1990, public sector investments in transport averaged
about G/. 14.0 billion per year (about US$24 million) (Table 1.1). In real terms they
peaked in 1986 when about US$30 million were invested, since then they have dropped
to nearly half that much. These investment levels were, on average for the period, about
0.5% of GNP, 2.6% of gross investment (GNI), and about 8% of public sector invest-
ments (PI). On a longer perspective though, there was a clearly decreasing trend; while
at the beginning of the decade public investment in transport was about 25% of gross
public investment (with a peak of 32% in 1983), by the end of the decade the average
was only 5%. These figures are quite low considering the importance of transport to
foreign trade earnings; for instance, equivalent figures for Uruguay are around 1.8 % of
GNP and 15% of GNI, and in Chile they are about 1.5% of GNP and 10% of GNI.
1.13   On average about 95% of sector investments have been for roads, and this pro-
portion has been increasing; 3% to 4% has gone for ports and river transport, and this
has been decreasing; and a 1 % to 2% has been invested in airports and railways. How-
ever, there are large variations because of the lumpiness of transport investments; for
instance, the construction of the international airport at Ciudad del Este, which has cost
well over US$30 million will have increased the proportion of funds dedicated to aviation
until it is completed in 1993.
1.14   Between 1993 and 1998 the government expects to invest about G/.800 billion
(about US$550 million) in the transport sector (Table 1.2), this is an annual average of
about US$100 million. Compared with the US$24 million it invested on average in the
last decade, this appears high. Admittedly, however, the last decade, particularly the last
few years of the decade were atypical because the withdrawal of the Bank and other
donors from the country forced a sizable reduction in investments.
1.15   External sources are expected to continue to play a significant part in financing
this volume of investments, about US$380 million, or 70% of total investment, the
equivalent of US$60 million per year for the next six years.
D. Ighways
1.16   The highways subsector is described in detail separately in Chapter 2 of this
report.



-4 -
E. Ports and Waterways
1.17   The ANNP owns and operates 19 river and dry ports, and owns depots and free
zones in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Uruguay. The main river ports are Concepcion,
Asunci6n, Villeta and Pilar on the Paraguay river. The dry ports, which ANNP operates
at all major road border-crossings are Pedro Juan Caballero, Salto del Guaira, Ciudad
del Este, Encarnaci6n and Puerto Falcon (see Map IBRD 24199). In addition, there are
a number of privately owned ports, the largest being San Antonio. It is a bulk facility
with a barge loading belt capable of moving 4,000 tons per day, attached to a soybean
cleaning and drying plant with a storage capacity of 70,000 tons.
1.18  In 1990 public ports handled about 3 million tons and private ports about 1
million tons (Table 1.3). Of the traffic handled by ANNP about 1.2 million tons went
through river ports and about 1.8 million tons through dry ports. Asuncion and Villeta,
the largest river ports, handled about 400,000 tons of traffic each. Ciudad del Este and
Encarnaci6n, the largest dry ports, handled about 1.1 million and 450,000 tons of cargo
respectively.
1.19   With the construction of the YacyretA dam, where, as opposed to the Itaipd damn,
navigation locks have been provided, the ParanA river will become navigable below Itaipd
(Ciudad del Este). The ANNP is constructing a new river port at Ciudad del Este and
a similar facility will be financed by the YacyretA Dam International Authority at Encar-
naci6n. Both ports are expected to handle mostly bulk soybean exports.
1.20   ANNP has had operating surpluses over the past decade, mostly on account of
charges levied at its dry ports, where it provides no services other than use of the physi-
cal facility.
1.21   Paraguay's fleet totals some 240,000 registered tons of which 25% is in the hands
of the government-owned shipping company, FLOMERES, and 75% is owned by the
private sector (Table 1.4). The private fleet is operated reasonably well and efficiently,
and is self-sustaining financially. FLOMERES in contrast, has been running large defi-
cits. Its debts now exceed the book value of its assets by about US$25 million. The
government intends to privatize the company.
1.22   Although the share of river transport has been increasing in recent years and a
further boost may occur with the improvements expected under the 'Hidrovia' projecte,
only 40% of soybean exports (the largest single export item) were shipped over the rivers
to deep-sea ports in 1990 compared to 50% moved by truck. A transport sector review
currently in progress in Paraguay will investigate further the reasons for the low use of
inland navigation.
i/    Hidrovia is the generic name being used to describe the river transport system
encompassed by the lower Parana and the Paraguay rivers. The system covers
a distance of some 3,500 km, about 2,300 km of the Paraguay river from its
source at Clceres, in the Brazilian Matto Grosso, to its confluence with the
Parana, and 1,200 km (as the continuation of the Parana) from the confluence to
the Rio de la Plata. Research into the hidrovia is being managed by the IDB.



-5-
F. Railways
1.23   FCCAL consists of 376 km of narrow gauge trunk line between Asuncidn and
Encarnaci6n where it links with the Argentine Urquizar Railroad. The Urquizar line in
turn connects with the Uruguayan Railroad across the Salto Grande dam. The track,
which was built over 70 years ago, is badly deteriorated. So is the rolling stock which
has an average age of 65 years. The locomotives are wood-burning steam engines and
are in very poor condition. The average speed on the railway is below 20 km/h.
1.24   FCCAL operates two weekly freight services from Asuncion to Encarnacidn, a
daily passenger service between Asunci6n and Ypacaraf and a weekly passenger service
between Asunci6n and Encarnaci6n. In 1990 it carried some 291,000 tons of cargo;
however, most of that originated on a short stretch close to the border at Encarnaci6n and
was hauled on Argentinean and Uruguayan wagons. About 300,000 passengers use the
railway annually and they are moved on coaches leased from the Argentinean railway.
1.25   With these low volumes of traffic and short hauls it is difficult for FCCAL to
operate profitably. For many years FCCAL has been incurring operating losses; for the
first time in 1990 the operating ratio was slightly higher than one (1.04). FCCAL is also
on the list of state-owned enterprises the government intends to privatize.
G. Air Transport
1.26  Although 47 airports receive commercial services, either regular scheduled or
charter flights, only 6 have minimal installations (Itaipd, Concepci6n, Vallemf, Pilar,
Ayolas, and Cnl. Estigarribia), and only Asuncidn complies with ICAO standards (Cate-
gory II). Most traffic is either from or to Asuncidn which handled about 20,000 landings
and take-offs in 1990. About 300,000 international, 40,000 transit and 25,000 domestic
passengers moved through Asuncidn in 1990; it also handled about 18,000 tons of cargo.
1.27   There country has two domestic airlines (Transporte Aereo Militar, TAM, and
Lfneas Aereas de Transporte Nacional, LATN) and one international airline (Lfneas
Aereas Paraguayas, LAP). They are controlled by the Civil Aviation Administration, a
branch of the Ministry of Defence. In the past, capital expenditures had been kept to a
minimum; however, recently the government decided to construct a new airport at Ciu-
dad del Este which, when completed, will have cost over US$30 million. The airport
will be able to handle international flights in competition with a well developed facility
a few kilometers away across the border at Foz de Iguazd, in Brazil.
1.28   LAP, the government-owned international airline, has been running large deficits
over the last years and it is also included in the list of state-owned enterprises the govern-
ment would want to privatize.
H. Sector Planning
1.29   Despite abundant Bank assistance since the first highway project in 1961, plan-
ning and coordination remains weak. The traditional lack of correlation between priori-
ties (determined by some consistently applied criteria, whether economic or not) and
budgets and investments still exists. This was the reason that led to the creation of the
Office of Integrated Transport Planning and Coordination (OCPMI) after the 1973 Para-
guay Transport Survey under the Third Highway Project, and the reason all projects have



- 6 -
attempted to strengthen it. Yet, there is still a basic top- and working-level lack of
understanding of planning methods and objectives.
1.30   A number of elements have conspired to produce this result. Prior to 1989 few
budgetary decisions were made with any technical input. Other factors have also added
to the situation: consultants that were to train OCPIT personnel on planning and coordi-
nation, were used instead as staff. OCPIT has usually been staffed through lateral pro-
motion and moves, and consequently is formed mostly by engineers with an inkling,
rather than professional planners, economists or transport specialists. There is also the
issue of civil service salaries, it has been difficult to retain capable people, not only in
OCPIT but everywhere in the ministry.
1.31   MOPC's weak overall planning has also pervaded other areas: (a) MOPC's role
in coordinating infrastructure investments and regulatory policy is also weak, and for this
reason contradictory projects are undertaken, and at times expenditures cancel out their
desired impacts. MOPC's efficacy in this area is handicapped by a lack of preciseness
in the statutory link between it and the modal agencies, and by the practice cf the Presi-
dent and not the Minister, appointing the heads of these agencies; (b) donor coordination
is not effectively done, thus, their well intentioned projects some times contradict one
another and their policies often act in opposite directions: for instance, while the Bank
would recommend to contract out most of the maintenance, IDB and OECF have engaged
in supporting extensive programs to re-establish an in-house maintenance capability; (c)
communication with the private sector is deficient, and this is detrimental to the sector
as a whole: for instance, CAPECO, a dynamic grain and seed-oil exporters organization,
has independently pursued bilateral negotiations for transit rights through Brazil, Argenti-
na and Uruguay, while at the same time the Government, through MOPC, has been
seeking to improve transit agreements through the same countries.
1.32   MOPC's Planning Office (now OPIT) would be well suited to carry out the
necessary modal, donor and public-private sector coordination. However, from within
the Transport Undersecretariat it does not have the necessary rank to be effective. For
coordination purposes, OPIT would be better placed as an advisory body to the Minister
than within the Undersecretariat of Transport.
I. Previous Bank Experience with Transport Projects
1.33   The Bank first became involved in Paraguay's transport sector in the early 1950s,
since then it has financed seven highway and one port projects. The first highway project
was in 1961 and it and those that succeeded it played a major role in the construction and
paving of the Paraguayan trunk road network.
1.34   During this 30-year long association Bank assistance' was concentrated on: (a)
paving the trunk network and associated activities (feasibility studies, engineering de-
signs, piggy-back planning for more road building), (b) maintaining the paved and un-
paved trunk roads, including ancillary activities such as establishing a maintenance orga-
nization, equipping it, purchasing spare parts and maintaining the equipment, planning
and designing maintenance activities, training staff, etc., and (c) creating, improving and
subsequently strengthening transport planning and coordination.
5/     As reflected by the components of successive projects.



1.35   Although MOPC was driven by the Bank and other donors who by-and-large
financed their investments, and by the consultants who helped to carry out the projects,
all projects took much longer to complete and cost more than expected. All succeeded
in having their civil works finished, but the maintenance, road and sector management,
planning and coordination, and institution building components, failed. For instance,
although throughout the 1970s and 1980s the Bank financed generous amounts of techni-
cal assistance to introduce maintenance planning, programming and budgeting, helped to
introduce road inventories, traffic counting, vehicle weight controls, pavement evaluation
methods, and maintenance management systems into MOPC, efforts faltered and disap-
peared as soon as the technical assistance ceased.
J. Prospective Bank Actions
1.36   The proposed project, together with efforts included under IDB projects (Annex
1), would re-establish some of these activities. However, the project would initiate the
development and gradual establishment of a new approach to doing business at the minis-
try. Instead of attempting to re-establish an in-house capability to produce everything the
ministry needs to do, as was done in all previous Bank projects, the proposed project
intends to build an improved management capacity at MOPC and to place higher reliance
on procuring services and other inputs from consultants and contractors, including all
construction and maintenance.
1.37   The proposed approach would attempt to form and keep at the ministry a core
group of competent staff to coordinate and manage contractors and consultants, and then
rely on the group's capacity to have those contractors and consultants produce the neces-
sary works and activities. MOPC agrees that this can be achieved, and that today's
MOPC, with its current organization and top level staff, can reach this objective.
1.38   Earlier Bank efforts to produce institutional change were based on the liberal use
of technical assistance and consultants, who were expected to transfer know-how and
experience to local staff, improve their capacity and thus the delivery and quality of the
ministry's tasks. These efforts failed because the consultants faced a poorly organized,
autocratically run ministry, with few qualified people, who were underpaid and had to
work more than their civil service job. For the most part the consultants ended up in staff
functions, and when their assignment was over no one took over. The ministry was,
thus, unable to absorb the technical assistance and improve as expected.
1.39   While a new and considerably improved organization is now in place, many of
the conditions that led to the earlier failures are still there. In designing the project,
therefore, care was taken to limit the use of technical assistance and consultants to what
appeared essential to prepare the ground to establish the new approach, this is to: (i)
identify the basic management elements that would need to be changed to build an im-
proved management capacity, and (ii) to maintain the Bank's presence in Paraguay's
roads6. The proposed project includes therefore: (a) a management study (audit) of
fi/    The break of Bank activities in Paraguay in the mid- to late 1980s prompted
MOPC to effectively replace it by other donors, notably IDB and OECF. Their
commitment to assist MOPC has caused their advice and approach to be substan-
tially followed by MOPC. OECF and IDB are currently, for instance, helping
MOPC to re-develop an in-house capability to do highway maintenance. While
the Bank would have advised to contract out as much of the maintenance as
possible to, thus, ease the burden on ministry staff and improve results, a differ-



MOPC's top level operation, the design and implementation of interventions to improve
internal management procedures and spawn team-work at the top, and (b) engineering
studies to piggy-back another project on the project.
ent approach is being followed instead. Setting a new course will only be done
gradually and will require compromises with the government and with the other
international financial institutions.



- 9 -
2. THE HIGHWAYS SUBSECTOR
A. The Highways System
2.1   Paraguay has about 28,300 km of national roads of which about 2,600 km are
paved, 500 km are graveled and the rest, 25,200 km are dirt roads (Table 2.1). The
backbone of the system, the paved network comprises a triangle bisected by a north-south
axis (Map IBRD 24199): the triangle reaches from Asunci6n to Ciudad del Este (on the
Brazilian border) to Encarnaci6n (in the south, on the Argentinean border) and back to
Asunci6n, the north-south axis starts at Sta. Rosa in the north, cuts through Cnl. Oviedo
(halfway between Asunci6n and Ciudad del Este) and ends at Numi part way to Encar-
naci6n (the stretch between Numi and Encarnaci6n is still only a seasonally motorable
track). Since 1988 efforts have been largely directed at paving and modernizing the
roads in this system. In general, the paved roads are in relatively better condition than
the non-paved roads which are in poor condition.
B. Highway Administration
2.2    MOPC is responsible for the highway network. This responsibility is discharged
through the Public Works and Communications Undersecretariat which has two Director-
ates relevant to highways and roads7: one for Highways (DRH), it takes care of the
trunk, collector and local roads, and of road maintenance; and one for Village Roads
(DRVR), which takes care of the vast network of unclassified village roads estimated to
span another 25,000 km. In practice, however, this division of responsibilities is not
entirely firm because DRVR was established only in 1992 and does not have the budget
or the field organization to take full care of the village roads.
2.3   The ministry has a total staff of about 5,250 people of which about half are full-
time, permanent employees and half are part-time, temporary employees. Of the total,
roughly 5,000 are administrative officers (3,000) and laborers (2,000) and 250 are pro-
fessional and technical employees.
2.4    DRH has seven Departments: the Secretary's (DS), Technical Assistance (DTA),
Administrative (DA), Planning and Projects (DPP), Execution (DE), Pavement Evalua-
tion and Control (DEPC), and Maintenance (DM). The DM has 3 central divisions and
5 field Districts, each headed by a senior engineer with 2 or 3 sections, generally headed
by a junior engineer.
2.5   The DPP's main function is the preparation of engineering designs. It is a
relatively new department and is not yet adequately staffed to either carry out, or to
manage effectively the supervision of consultants engaged in detailed engineering design
work. The Department has recently been furnished with engineering design software,
and some young engineers were hired to staff a computer unit. This considerably streng-
thened DPP's capability. Encouraged by this new strength, DRH's DPP took a leading
role in recruiting and supervising the consultants that carried out the feasibility studies
and detailed engineering designs for the proposed project. Inspired by its expanding role,
DRH has recently also taken an interest in highway network planning and feasibility
2/    Other public works, especially buildings, and communications: the post office
and telephone services, are also the Undersecretariat's responsibility.



- 10-
studies (see para. 2.19 below), de facto seeking the role of a highway planning office.
It is now aspiring to have this responsibility (which is nominally with the Ministry's
Planning Office, OPIT) moved permanently under its wing.
2.6    DPP also prepares all bidding documents and coordinates the hiring of consultants
and contractors to carry out DRH's own, and more generally the ministry's work. Major
works have traditionally been procured through competitive bidding and great emphasis
has been placed on selecting competent and experienced firms to supervise the contracts
and enforce quality control.
2.7   Tle D  is responsible for road construction works. It coordinates and supervises
the contractors that execute roadworks and the consultants who supervise them. DE also
manages a small volume of force account construction, mostly on "national integration'
roads.
2.8    The DEPC is in charge of pavement evaluations and of financial controls. The
evaluation unit conducts regular pavement roughness and condition assessments; it oper-
ates the Highways Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) developed by the
Bank to improve strategic and policy planning for maintenance. Training on the use of
this model to DEPC (and other potential users within MOPC) was financed, during
project preparation by a PPF advance. The financial control unit monitors actual expen-
ditures during project execution they, thus, follow closely the supervision consultants.
The unit also monitors the use of maintenance funds.
2.9   The DM is responsible for road maintenance. Maintenance is almost exclusively
performed by force account and executed by district staff. However, a few major pave-
ment patching works and some asphalt concrete overlays have been contracted lately.
Still, most asphalt work is done directly by force account. For this purpose, the DM has,
near Asuncidn, an asphalt plant and specialized crews. All 2,600 km of paved roads are
maintained by these specialized crews from this central location near Asunci6n. This
obviously creates problems and a certain neglect, if for no other reason than the long
distances involved in reaching the more distant paved roads. Not surprisingly most
pavement repairs have become full surface overlay works, which is an expensive substi-
tute for timely minor repairs, preventive maintenance, and for scheduled periodic mainte-
nance works.
2.10   Also near Asunci6n, at San Lorenzo, DM has a small-bridge repair unit for
wooden bridges and minor structures (larger works have to be contracted). Given the
considerable network of unpaved roads in the country, there is a large number of wooden
bridges and small structures. The unit is responsible for most wood-bridge repairs and
also carries out design and construction of these bridges. Attached to the unit are the
remnants of a soils and materials laboratory originally set up in 1968 for the construction
of the Asunci6n airport but which now works mostly on bridge foundations.
2.11   DM's equipment fleet is old, undependable and mostly due for retirement, its
productivity is low. Maintenance and repair of the equipment is precariously performed
at district workshops; major repairs are sent to the central workshop at San Lorenzo.
Under the new organization the San Lorenzo central workshop, and indeed the whole
fleet of maintenance equipment was subordinated to the Undersecretariat of Administra-
tion and Finance instead of Public Works. This has created considerable problems
because it is extremely difficult to coordinate the use, operation, and repair and mainte-
nance of equipment between two Undersecretariats. As a result, road maintenance,
precarious under the best of circumstances, has suffered even more. While accountability
_-------     ------_- ---------



- 11 -
for the equipment could quite properly remain A&F's responsibility, operating and
running the equipment should be transferred back to those directly involved with its daily
use.
2.12   The situation is critical because a large purchase of maintenance equipment,
financed by the Japanese OECF, is being delivered and no proper arrangements for the
use of the equipment were made. The impact on the condition of the roads of this large
investment is threefore in seriou jeopardy.
2.13   Moreover, the planning that should have precede the use of the equipment, the
procurement of materials and the deployment of manpower that should parallel it, has not
been done. Maintenance planning has been reduced to a crisis management task carried
out daily over the telephone with each district engineer. No network can be maintained
for very long in a reasonable condition with such a system. Paraguay's network shows
the strain of having been run this way for some time. The sluggishness of efforts to
improve maintenance bodes poorly for the network.
2.14   Bank support for road maintenance started in 1961 with the First Highway Pro-
ject. That project financed procurement of maintenance equipment and spare parts and
the preparation of a maintenance master plan. This was followed in 1966 by technical
assistance to improve maintenance operations, and in 1970 by the construction of 13
equipment maintenance workshops and the preparation of a four-year maintenance pro-
gram (1970 - 1973). In the Fourth Highway Project (1974) the acquisition of more
equipment and spare parts together with more technical assistance were included. The
Fifth Project included seven years of technical assistance in maintenance management and
operations, and academic and on-the-job training, complemented by the construction of
more workshops, the rehabilitation and renewal of equipment, and the financing of more
spare parts. The project was expected to improve maintenance from headquarters to
districts and from planning to execution. The subsequent Sixth Project included more
technical assistance, and the Seventh Project included technical assistance for equipment
maintenance and workshop management.
2.15   Despite this considerable effort, at times hampered by competing demands for
resources, but most frequently by lack of qualified staff and top management support,
maintenance has sunk to unprecedented low levels. In most projects, efforts vanished as
soon as the consultants that were sustaining them completed their assignment. The
Bank's withdrawal from Paraguay in the mid 1980s magnified and underscored the short-
comings and difficulties. Since then, IDB and OECF have replaced the Bank in assisting
with road maintenance, and IDB is now financing technical assistance to attempt to re-
establish a maintenance planning, management and execution capability'. However,
progress has been extremely slow.
2.16   Under these circumstances, contracting the maintenance is an alternative worth
exploring, which the Bank would encourage. DRH has expressed interest in experiment-
ing with this approach. However, there is little experience in Paraguay on contracting
such works. Prompted by the Bank, the Director DRH (DDRH) has declared his inten-
tion to use funds under the technical assistance component of one of IDB's projects to
hire consultants to develop expertise in this area (including help to prepare suitable
I/    A detailed account of the external assistance being provided by different donors
and agencies to MOPC for highway maintenance and other highways related
matters is in Annex 1.



- 12 -
bidding documents for contracted maintenance work). In addition, the Ministry should
seriously consider elevating the maintenance function to the Directorate level, in its
current position as a Department within the Directorate of Highways it is relegated to a
subordinate role below construction, which does not favor the improvement of its techni-
cal level or increases in funding for it.
2.17   Overall achievement of the ministry's main objective (building and maintaining
the most economic road and highway network in the most cost-effective manner possible)
is not, at present, being fully reached. Many reasons conspire to produce this result, an
important one is the lack of adequate administrative procedures to coordinate the different
directorates with one another, so that a harmonious, correlated product is obtained.
During project preparation technical assistance was financed through a Project Prepara-
tion Facility (PPF) advance to improve micro-management activities (accounting, internal
auditing, management of own funds, investment management and follow-up, purchases,
etc.) at the Finance and Administration UnderSecretariat. Procedural manuals to improve
the execution of these activities were produced; work was extended to the Public Works
UnderSecretariat and will be followed by similar micro-management reviews and assess-
ments in the Transport, and the Mines and Energy UnderSecretariats.
2.18   However, there is a need to review "macro"-management processes at the minis-
try, including strategic and administrative decision making and decision transmittal proce-
dures. The proposed project provides assistance to hire a management consultant to carry
out this review. The purpose of the review is to design improved macro-management
methods to help the ministry discharge its responsibilities in a more effective and cost
efficient manner, taking into account the strategic alternatives available to the ministry
to accomplish its objectives. The study is expected, inter alia, to set in motion a process
to improve coordination in the development of policies and guidelines, strategic plans
(including highways and other modal plans), economic decision making and planning,
technical guidelines, and administrative processes and procedures would be improved.
The study is also aimed at identifying means to improve and promote team-work in the
ministry. If necessary, the study would recommend the establishment of new structures
and systems. The consultant would complete the management study by June 1994 and
his recommendations would be discussed with the Bank within three months of the com-
pletion of the study. Those recommendations agreed to be implemented under the project
would be carried out before June 1995. Provision has been made in the project to bring
back the consultant to assist in implementing the recommendations agreed to be carried
out under the project by December 31, 1995. Commitment execute the study within this
schedule were confirmed at negotiations.
C. Highway Planning
2.19   With considerable support from all seven Bank highway projects, highway net-
work planning has traditionally been done by the ministry's Integrated Transport Planning
Office (OCPMT). Until MOPC's recent reorganization OCPIT was a Directorate General
reporting to the minister. The reorganization downgraded OCPIT to OPIT a directorate
within the Transport Undersecretariat. OPIT's new position is an awkward location from
which to do highway network planning, in particular vis-a-vis the DRH, the ultimate user
of highway plans. DRH has consequently taken a renewed interest in highway network



- 13 -
planning based on an alleged comparative advantage in carrying out the task9, and has
staked a strong claim over it (see para.2.5 above).
2.20   While the reorganization defines fairly well the responsibilities of each Under-
secretariat, overlaps and voids were inevitable. Planning is one of them. OPIT is clearly
in charge of overall transport sector planning, but whether or not this should include
highway planning and thus, the preparation of highway feasibility and other studies that
would eventually to be implemented by the DRH, is controversial. On the one hand,
OPIT's role could be made exclusively sectoral: reviewing, allocating and coordinating
priorities among competing modes, without becoming involved directly and intimately
with the highways at the same time. If this were the case, full responsibility for highway
network planning and feasibility studies should be place in DRH, together with the traffic
counting program and other data collection tasks necessary to plan roads. Alternatively,
on the other hand, OPIT's role could, conceivably, include highway network planning,
as has traditionally been the case. In this case, however, the Office should be elevated,
to have rank over the DRH who would carry out such plans. No immediate decision is
expected of the ministry on this issue. The proposed project provides assistance to hire
management consultants to carry out a review MOPC's organization, its distribution of
functions and management procedures. The consultant would complete the study by June
30, 1995, their recommendations would be discussed with the Bank within three months
of the completion of the study and those recommendations agreed to be carried out under
the project would be implemented by December 31, 1995. This schedule was confirmed
at negotiations.
D. Highway Expenditures, Financing, Cost Recovery, Future Expenditures
2.21   ExDenditure. In Paraguay budgets are mostly meaningless. They are padded
for public consumption, well beyond execution capacity and grossly above the financing
capability of the government. For this reason a better indication of MOPC's performance
is obtained from budgetary execution, i.e. effective expenditures. Traditionally MOPC's
execution has been no higher than 45%-50% of the budget. Expenditures, however, are
the combined result of the agency's capacity to do things and the volume of funds effec-
tively appropriated to it (in turn a reflection of government (and parliament's) priorities
in the allocation of resources). True capability is, thus, difficult to measure.
2.22  In the past eight years MOPC's total expenditures have averaged about US$40
million annually (in real terms excluding debt payment, which traditionally was paid by
the Ministry of Finance but which since 1992 is charged to the line ministries) (Table
2.2). Of this total about 90% was spent on highways and road related activities and 10%
on other ministry obligations (mines and energy, tourism, postal service, the merchant
marine, the railway). On average current expenses are close to 30% of the total and
capital expenditures, which include offices, office equipment, field machinery, road
related maintenance expenses and road construction projects close to 70%. On mainte-
nance, the proportion of administrative to road related expenses is much higher, about
2/    DRH claims to be closer and more intimately involved with roads, its field offic-
es carry out the traffic counts on behalf of OPIT, and its Evaluation and Control
Department carries out pavement surveys and evaluations on which much of the
planning is based. It claims a higher level of technical expertise in the field, and
would probably be as well suited to take on the full responsibility for highway
planning as OPIT, if it were strengthened with a sufficient number of economists
and planners it currently does not have.



- 14 -
50% each. All told (Table 2.4), in the last eight years MOPC has spent about US$28
million on road construction (investment), US$5 million on maintenance and US$7
million on its own administration.
2.23   The ratio of new construction to maintenance expenditures over the last eight
years has averaged about 5: 1, i.e. for every US$5 spent on construction only US$1 was
spent on maintenance (of which, on average, only 50 cents end up on the roads). The
ratio is imbalanced, yet has tended to increase lately, to 7.8:1 in 1992 and about 7:1 in
1993 (see Table 2.4). Comparable figures in Uruguay for instance, have been 1:1 con-
sistently through the 1980s; in Chile they were 2:1 at the beginning of the 1980s and 1:2
at the end of the decade, they are expected to remain about 1:1.5 through the 1990s. The
imbalance in Paraguay should be remedied and a higher proportion of the budget should
be devoted to maintenance.
2.24   A recent study of road needs carried out with the help of the HDM model'
concluded that to keep the network in a reasonable condition about US$20 million should
be spent on maintenance every year in the next five (1992-1996)". A review of expen-
ditures in 1993 (Table 2.4) shows that while there was a considerable increase in mainte-
nance funding over earlier years, a significant shortfall vis-a-vis the consultant's recom-
mendation (about US$10 million) still exists. A fresh review of maintenance needs, and
new National Road Maintenance Plan will be prepared under IDB's auspices, this would
include a reassessment of maintenance funding. For the time being, though, as a mini-
mum commitment of the government to gradually increase maintenance funding, the Bank
should seek assurances that the proposed 1994 budgetary allocation for maintenance will
be upheld, that it will be increased to become not less than the equivalent of G/. 26
million (1994 guaranies) (about US$13 million) by 1995, and that this level will be main-
tained, in real terms, thereafter until the project is completed (Table 2.4) (see also para.
2.28).
2.25   Financing. Highway and road expenditures are funded through budgetary appro-
priations. These, in turn, are tied to designated, specific sources of funds. If revenues
from the designated source materialize, an appropriation may be made to the agency.
In turn, the size of the appropriation depends on what other expenses are financed from
that same source and the priority the government assigns to the different expenditures
financed by the source. Ordinary resources (taxes, including road user taxes) and, in
recent years, part of the Itaipd royalties, have financed MOPC's current expenditures.
Capital expenditures are financed partly with ordinary resources and Itaipl5 royalties (both
local resources), and mostly with foreign borrowing. When funds from any source fail
to materialize, or the funds of a source are put to different use, the investment program
shrinks. In 1989 and 1990 for instance, when fewer foreign funds were available, local
appropriations to MOPC were increased to prevent investments from falling too much
(Table 2.3 budgetary execution by source of funds) .
2.26   Foreign borrowing has traditionally accounted for about 70% of total road invest-
ments; however, in 1989 and 1990 the proportion was considerably lower, about 25%,
because most donors (except the IDB) withdrew from Paraguay in the mid-1980s, their
1J/   Estudio de la financiaci6n y recaudaci6n de fondos para carreteras, SAE-
CONTEC, 1991.
.1/   Assuming a similar growth of the network as was accomplished by MOPC in the
last five years.



- 15 -
projects were completed and no new projects followed. The proportion increased again
in the early 1990s as foreign financial institutions rebuilt their project portfolio.
2.27   The recovery ratio on highway expenditures (investments, operation and mainte-
nance) is about 1.5: 1. Road users generated, through taxes on motor fuels, lubricants,
spare parts, tires, import duties on vehicles, and as tolls, and vehicle and driver licensing
fees, annual average receipts of over US$61 million between 1985 and 1990 (Table 2.5),
while expenses averaged about US$40 million. Taxes, including duties, typically ac-
count for about 75% of receipts, the rest are tolls and fees some of which accrue directly
to MOPC and some to municipalities.
2.28   However, road-user charges and taxes are not earmarked. Thus, while user-fees
and taxes are more than enough to recover the cost incurred in providing the public roads
system there is no guarantee that enough funds will be available to finance all necessary
expenses. During project preparation, the desirability of earmarking at least a portion
of road-user revenues, to cover part of the underfunded maintenance was discussed with
government. The Ministry of Finance (MOF), understandably, refused to earmark road-
user related revenues. Instead, it agreed to appropriate enough funds to ensure proper
maintenance of the roads. The Bank should insist on appropriations (in real 1994 guara-
nies) of not less than G/.19,600 million in 1994 and G/. 26,000 million in 1995 and
every year thereafter until the project closes (about USS 13 million in constant real terms
per year). This is below the amount estimated by consultants to be needed for mainte-
nance in the next five years (US$20 million per year, para. 2.24) but is still much higher
than recent expenditures (which were on average only about US$5 million per year).
This commitment was confirmed at negotiations.
2.29   Future Investment and Maintenance Expenditures In the next few years MOPC
expects to increase maintenance expenditures as described above, and at the same time
increase considerably its road projects spending. Disbursements on these two items, if
MOPC's wishes materialize, would rise from the roughly US$58 million spent in 1992,
to US$94 million in 1993, to US$104 million in 1994, to US$120 million in 1995 (Table
2.4). Table 2.6 shows in detail MOPC's proposed investment and maintenance spending
program (1994-1998), it includes: funds necessary for the proposed project; the suggested
maintenance increases (para. 2.28); other foreign financed projects: notably IDB, OECF
and FONPLATA projects; and locally funded projects.
2.30   These investment increases, while large (work volumes would be three- to four-
times historic averages) are technically feasible. They postulate, however, that enough
resources will indeed be made available to MOPC to carry out such a large program.
To materialize the program, budgetary execution (appropriations) traditionally only 45%-
50% of budgetary forecasts would have to increase to 100%. To just comply with
currently committed, unavoidable expenses for foreign-financed projects (including the
Bank project), that is, excluding locally financed projects, budgetary execution would
have to increase to 80%. The proposed Bank project, about 15% of the whole program,
would impose a heavy burden on funding needs. This effort is sought at a time when
Paraguay's short and medium term fiscal prospects are tight (and for macroeconomic
stability reasons should continue to be kept tight), and when, thus, the Ministry of Fi-
nance may find it hard to appropriate the funds. MOPC, however, foresees no problem
in funding the project and carrying it out according to the proposed schedule (Table 3.3).



- 16 -
2.31   Given these financial uncertainties though, the Bank, while accepting the pro-
posed project and its execution schedule, sought additonal assurances over and above the
standard contractual commitment, wherein the government vouches to provide the neces-
sary counterpart funds for the project promptly as needed every year. The Bank sought
to ensure that MOPC's counterpart budgetary appropriations for the project, and funds
for the maintenance of roads were at least as follows:
YEARLY MAINTENANCE AND WORLD BANK PROJECT APPROPRIATIONS
(in jiiions of 1994 guaranies)
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
bLaizentnce   19,600     26,000      26,000    26,000      26,000    26,000
WB Project     9,200      9,500      9,000      9,000      8,000
TOTAL      28,800.00   35,500.00   35,000.00   35,000.00    34,000.00   26,000.00
(1994 USS)     14.40      17.75      17.50      17.50      17.00      13.00
2.32   To monitor compliance with these appropriations, reporting requirements include
MOPC informing the Bank: (a) a month before the budget proposal for MOPC is submit-
ted to Congress, of the contents of such proposal, item by item and project by project
including the maintenance; (b) within a month of Congress' approval of the budget, of
the contents of MOPC's approved budget, item by item and project by project including
mnaintenance; and, (c) within a month of the conclusion of each fiscal year, starting with
FY 1993, of MOPC's budgetary execution for the fiscal year just concluded, item by
item and project by project including the maintenance. Review requirements include
formal meetings every year, within three months of the conclusion of the fiscal year, for
the purpose of discussing MOPC's budgetary execution and project progress.
E. Higghways and the Environment
2.33   Oversight of environmental matters in Paraguay is the responsibility of the Natu-
ral Resources and Environment Undersecretariat of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG). In January, 1991 an Interministerial Commission"2 was created to
coordinate environmental impact assessments (ELAs) and review studies on how to miti-
gate the effects of roadworks. The Commission includes representatives of other sectors
that might be affected by road projects and, if necessary, may solicit the participation of
other public and private agencies.
2.34   In March, 1991 MOPC created its own Environmental Unit reporting to the
Undersecretary of Public Works. It largely parallels the Interministerial Commission.
The Unit is charged with preparing EIAs for all public road projects and to coordinate
the study and implementation of mitigating measures found necessary in each project.
IZ/   The Commission is chaired by the Undersecretary for Natural Resources and the
Environment of MAG and includes as regular members MOPC's Directors of
Highways and of Rural Roads, the Technical Director of the Paraguayan Institute
of Indigenous Affairs (NDI), MAG's Director of the National Office for Project
Coordination and Administration (ONCAP), the Director of Planning of the
Rural Welfare Institute (IBR), the Director of the National Forest Service (DRF),
and the Director of the National Park and Wildlife Service.



- 17 -
The Unit has a staff of five, it is headed by a graduate biologist, and supported by a
geographer-engineer, a civil engineer, a forester and a human ecologist. This is adequate
for its current workload. At present the Unit is monitoring the implementation of mitiga-
tion measures on two IDB supported road projects. The Unit coordinated and followed
the preparation of the EIA studies that consultants prepared for this project.
2.35   The group is young and inexperienced and needs training in all aspects of EIA
work including the preparation of TORs, and the contracting and managing of consul-
tants. Support to equip the Unit was included in the IDB projects. The proposed project
intends to provide for some elements not covered by the IDB, like additional training
and, especially, professional exposure of the staff. This would include financing the
participation of Unit staff in training seminars and conferences, and the provision of
training scholarships.
2.36   Environmental work is still seen as an activity imposed by outsiders. The degree
of environmental awareness within MOPC and the government more generally, is low
and integrating the Unit's work into MOPC's routine operations is needed. Therefore,
the project includes financial resources to organize awareness and dissemination seminars
especially for design and construction engineers in both, MOPC and the municipalities,
and in other government agencies.
2.37   Ideally, the Environmental Unit should cover envirommental issues related to all
modes of transport, not just roads. It would appear reasonable, then, to locate the Unit
together with the ministry's Planning Office which also has a multimodal mandate, rather
than under the Undersecretariat of Public Works. The issue will be reviewed in the
context of the ministry's management review.
F. The Road Transport Industry
2.38   Passenger travel in Paraguay is predominantly by bus; road transport accounts
for about 85% of total inter-urban passenger movements. Domestic interurban road
transport is handled by some 309 private companies with an average of six buses each
(Table 2.5). Public passenger transport, as in most countries, is tightly regulated: there
are entry, route and tariff controls. Tariffs vary according to distance and road surface
and their level appears reasonable. The Surface Transport Department in the Transport
Undersecretariat is in charge of controlling the industry and fixing tariffs, they have a
well defined methodology (copied form Brazilian standards) to update periodically passen-
ger fares. The growth of the fleet at some 5.2% over the last decade, and a shift to
larger vehicles would indicate that the industry is healthy and has grown in parallel with
the improvement of the road network.
2.39   Paraguay's trucking industry comprises two distinct segments: a domestic seg-
ment dominated by one vehicle owner-operators, and an international segment of mostly
big trucking firms. There are no entry, route or tariff restrictions to trucking, and
regulations are limited to the yearly registration of operators and the licensing of vehi-
cles. The capacity and composition of the trucking fleet for the domestlc market is
reportedly adequate, although no accurate figures are available. OPIT estimates that
there are about 25,000 trucks involved in domestic trucking services, of which about
5,000 are not registered (mostly older vehicles).
2.40   There are 113 intenational trucking operators licensed in the country and the
industry appears healthy. International trucking, mostly soybeans destined for the port
of Paranagua in Brazil, is the subject of a bilateral agreement with Brazil. The agreement



- 18 -
defines the number of trucks that may cross from Paraguay into Brazil per day and the
times at which they may travel. During the 1991 harvest season, 410 trucks were al-
lowed each night. The agreement also specifies what proportion of the trucks must be
Brazilian. During the 1991 harvest season the Brazilian share was 50%; this still leaves
Paraguayan truckers with a share of the market that is beyond their capacity. Paraguayan
truckers often lease Brazilian trucks to fulfill their own quota.
2.41   At times, the limitation on the number of trucks has affected exports, and for this
reason the share of trucking in soybean exports has progressively declined from about
82% in 1986 to 47% in 1990. The share of river transport has correspondingly increased
from 11% to 39% during the same period. The limitations have also forced Paraguay
to search for other export routes. However, the options are few and in recent years,
CAPECO, the soybean exporters association, has concentrated on negotiating increases
in the number of trucks provided in the agreement with the Brazilian government.
2.42   The road vehicle registration records carried at present in Paraguay are quite
limited and poor, witness the lack of information on the number of trucks in the country.
In fact, each municipality is currently empowered to register vehicles, and few questions
are asked as to their origin and ownership. Because of the importance of the registry for
transport and traffic planning, for traffic safety, to charge road users for road costs, as
well as for purposes of law enforcement, the proposed project includes resources to
finance the installation of a national vehicle registry. The new registry, which will be
computerized, is expected to allow a better control of vehicle imports and vehicle owner-
ship, to charge properly for vehicle registration and thus increase the revenue collected
from registration fees, to enforce better the traffic code and to collect traffic fines, and
generally to improve traffic safety.
2.43   More than ten years ago, under the Seventh Highway Project, the Bank helped
to finance the acquisition of equipment and the construction of facilities to control truck
axle loads. However, some of the equipment has yet to be installed and effective control
of loads has yet to be vigorously enforced. Another study recently financed by IDB has
again recommended improving axle load enforcement. MOPC has restated its intention
to enforce vehicle weight controls.
2.44   Road safety, the policing of road traffic, and enforcement of the traffic code are
the responsibility of MOPC's Traffic Police Department in the Undersecretariat of Trans-
port. However, the Department lacks a comprehensive road safety program, and has
little equipment, manpower, and operating funds. An IDB highway project includes
assistance to improve road safety, it would assist MOPC with the identification of danger-
ous or black spots along the roads, the improvement of road accident data collection, the
development of TORs to study and design improved road signalling, the preparation of
TORs to contract an updating of accident cost information, the preparation of TORs for
the development of a vehicle inspection program, and the development of TORs for a
traffic safety campaign. Based on the results of these studies and further assessment of
the road safety problem in Paraguay future Bank projects may include a comprehensive
traffic safety program.



- 19 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.1   The new government that took over in Paraguay in 1989 requested Bank assis-
tance to review the operation and management of ports and inland waterways, with a
view to engaging in a project that would help to improve import/export operations. The
review concluded that most port investments were either already under way, or had been
taken on by the private sector. The request was then extended to include port accesses.
3.2    With an uncommitted balance of the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 2140-PA)
a study of the export corridors and their related road facilities was done. The study
identified a number of urgently needed improvements. The most obvious were to reduce
traffic congestion on the southern access to Asunci6n (from Paraguarf through Ita, Gua-
rambare, Ypane, Nemby to Cuatro Mojones), on the major traffic distributor (ringroad)
within the city (Cuatro Mojones - Defensores del Chaco - Madame Lynch - to the junc-
tion with Rt.9), and at the port of Asunci6n. Because the port is now surrounded by the
city and its land-side access has become poor, it was concluded that it was best to encour-
age the transfer of port operations to Villeta, about 40 km south of Asunci6n. For this
to be possible access to Villeta had to be made more expeditious. This matched the
already identified improvement of the southern access of the city, and would have the
added benefit of facilitating use of the port of San Antonio, a private facility about 30 km
south of Asunci6n (Map IBRD 24199).
3.3    Reducing congestion along the ringroad (Defensores del Chaco - Mme. Lynch)
would not only improve traffic in-and-around the city, but also help to solve a major
problem with floods that occur as frequently as it rains in Asuncion. The floods are a
hazard and nuisance to people who live in the area, and bring the city to a standstill
because traffic on the ringroad stops. The design of the improved ringroad provides for
the construction of flood control and drainage structures to evacuate storm water and
prevent future flooding.
3.4    Upgrading the highly used unpaved section from Limpio to Emboscada (Rt. 3)
on the northern access to Asunci6n was another obvious need; improving it will enhance
the quality of life for people in the suburb of Emboscada who use the road for their daily
commute.
3.5   The resurfacing of 100 kms of Route 6, at the eastern end of the country is
another urgent need. Route 6 runs parallel to the Parana river from Encarnaci6n to
Ciudad de Este. It traverses the most productive agricultural land of the country; the
area produces over 70% of the soybean exports. The road is intensely travelled, particu-
larly during harvest season when loaded trucks travel north to Ciudad del Este to cross
the Parana river and proceed to the Brazilian port of Paranagua from whence the soybean
is exported to the world. The road was built under the Sixth Highway Project in the late
1970s and early 1980s. The section now included in the project has not been resurfaced
since. The pavement is showing sings of distress and resurfacing would prevent further
deterioration and higher rehabilitation costs.
3.6   The size and condition of the unpaved national roads network has long been an
MOPC as well as Bank concern. The opportunity of this project was seized to include
in it a pilot program to assess the behavior in Paraguay of a new sulphonated compound



- 20 -
developed in South Africa to surface unpaved roads and improve their rideability, in-
crease their durability, and reduce dust pollution. The material has been used successful-
ly in South Africa, Venezuela, Colombia and a few other countries, and if successful in
Paraguay could become a comparatively low cost solution to improve the large network
of unpaved national and village roads.
3.7    While the studies and engineering designs were being prepared, MOPC manage-
ment reorganized the Ministry with a view to modernize it, correct major organizational
deficiencies, enhance working conditions, improve its ability to deliver more, better and
more economical roads, and to revamp sector management. The Bank's assistance to
strengthen the new organization was requested, and technical assistance in selected areas
has been included in the project.
B. Project Objectives
3.8    The proposed project is principally aimed at strengthening MOPC's organization
and promoting team-work at its highest level, thus, improving its capacity to deliver good
roads and a well maintained network. This objective would be accomplished through the
financing of selective technical assistance and training, and of civil works. The latter
would, in addition, ease the problems of rapid urbanization, and: (a) reduce enviromnen-
tal hazards and the nuisance caused by frequent floods along Asunci6n's ringroad; (b)
expedite exports by facilitating the use of alternative ports, (c) lower the costs of trucking
soybean exports to the Brazilian border; (d) enhance DH highway design and roadworks
planning capability, (e) improve enviromnental assessment skills at the ministry; and (f)
assist in establishing a National Vehicle Registry.
3.9    The proposed project is framed within the Bank's country assistance strategy of
addressing the physical constraints and social pressures arising out of the rural-urban
migration that results from the high rural population growth of Paraguay. The strategy
also calls for support to exports by upgrading the transport infrastructure.
3.10   After a seven year lending gap in Paraguay, Bank activities must also be cogni-
zant of, and blend in with the activities of other donors. The proposed project would
complement the considerable assistance included in parallel IDB and OECF projects:
these deal with improving the national highway network and improving maintenance, and
are based on developing stronger in-house capabilities at MOPC to carry them out (An-
nex 1). The technical assistance in the project would move in a different direction,
however, namely to help MOPC organize itself to contract with the private sector the
maintenance, construction, planning, engineering services, and other tasks MOPC has to
carry out. This approach would spare MOPC staff to coordinate and manage the pro-
gram rather than do it themselves. An initial step in the new direction is to develop
stronger internal team work and coordination in the decision making and implementation
of decisions, while at the same time ensuring that systems are in place that allow for
more efficient and effective performance.



- 21 -
C. Project Description
3.11   The proposed project would consist of:
(i)    Civil Works (US$66.5 million)
(a)    Road Improvements (US$59.4 million):
-     Route 1: Paraguarf - Ita (south access to Asunci6n, 24.0 km, US$3.3
mln.): adding paved shoulders and strengthening this 2-lane road, includ-
ing the construction of off-road bus-stops throughout.
-     Ita - Guarambare - Ypane - Nemby - Cuatro Mojones (south access to
Asunci6n, 34.6 km, US$18.4 m1n.): construction of a new 2-lane road
from ItA to a point on the existing Ypane - Nemby road near Remby
(21.8 km), including by-passes of the towns of Guarambare and Ypane
and the provision of off-road bus stops; widening to 4-lanes between the
junction with the existing Ypane - Nemby road (near Nemby, above) and
Cuatro Mojones (12.8 km), including strengthening of the existing 2-
lanes, a by-pass of the town of Nemby, and the provision of off-road bus
stops.
-     Cuatro Moiones - to Route 9 (ringroad of Asuncion, 12.3 km, US$26.9
mln.): widening to urban 4-lane standard the existing, mostly 2- some-
times 3- to 4-lane road; interconnecting the new highway to all city ac-
cess routes including construction of three major over-passes and im-
provement of three other intersections (Table 3.1). Work would include
construction of a new roadway, strengthening the existing pavement, traf-
fic lights, the construction of a bicycleway off the main road, provision
of pedestrian crosswalks, and improvement of two main storm-drain
canals (along the Defensores del Chaco section and the Madame Lynch
section of the ringroad) to prevent continued flooding in the area.
-     Route 3: Limpio - Emboscada (north access to Asuncion, 17.0 km,
US$6.2 mln.): paving the existing 2-lane gravel road between Limpio
and Emboscada, including replacement of an old bridge and provision of
off-road bus-stops.
(b)    Road Rehabilitation (US$6.1 million):
-     Route 6: from Jct.Rt.7 to km 100 (100km, US$6.1 min.) : rehabilitation
and strengthening of the existing 2-lane paved road, including construc-
tion of off-road bus-stops.
(C)    Pilot Stabilization Program (US$1.0 million):
-     stabilizing approximately 40 km of unpaved rural roads with sulphonated
oils (US$1.0 mln.).



- 22 -
(ii)    Consulting Services (US$8.8 million)
(a)    Engineering Services (US$6.1 mln)
-     supervision of all civil works (US$4.0 mln);
-     engineering designs for the rehabilitation of Rt.6 (US$0.2 mln);
-     engineering design, control and technical assistance for the pilot unpaved
road stabilization program (US$0.1 mln);
-     engineering study and design of improvements to the Ytay and the Lam-
bare creeks (US$0.3 mln);
-     refinancing of expenditures incurred under the PPF facility for engineer-
ing services (US$1.1 m]n).
(b)    Studies (US$0.7 mln.)
-     preparation of a highway master-plan (20 to 25 year horizon) for the
greater Asunci6n area including the identification of medium term priori-
ties and the location of a possible outer-ringroad (US$0.5 mln);
-     refinancing of expenditures incurred under the PPF facility for environ-
mental studies (US$0.1 mln).
(c)    Technical Assistance & Training (US$1.9 mln)
-     to strengthen MOPC's organization including a management audit
(US$1.0 mln);
-     to strengthen MOPC's Environmental Unit (US$0.1 mln);
-     to strengthen MOPC's DH Department of Planning and Projects (US$0.1
min);
-     to establish a National Vehicle Registry (US$1.0 mln);
-     refinancing of expenditures incurred under the PPF facility for technical
assistance and organizational studies (US$0.3 min).
(iii)   Eguipment (US$0.5 mln.)
-     computers and software required in connection with the implementation
of the national vehicle registry (US$0.4 mln); and
-      equipment for a soils and materials laboratory (US$0.1 mln).
3.12   Detailed descriptions of all major project items are in annexes: Annex 2 has a
detailed description of the road improvement works including the stormwater drainage
works; Annex 3 has a detailed description of the pilot unpaved road stabilization program
including the terms of reference for the consultant; Annex 4 are the terms of reference
for the consultant that carries out the surveying and design work for the improvement of
the Ytay and Lambare creeks which are beyond the stormwater drainage works included
in the project; Annex 5 are the terms of reference to carry out the Asunci6n transport
Master Plan; Annex 6 are the management consultant's terms of reference; Annex 7
describes the strengthening of MOPC's Environmental Unit; Annex 8 describes the
strengthening of the Department of Planning and Projects; and Annex 9 contains detailed
terms of reference to establish the National Vehicle Registry.



- 23 -
D. Project Preparation
3.13   A US$1.5 million Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance was used to fi-
nanced a considerable amount of consultant support to help MOPC to prepare the project,
more specifically:
USec. Public Works consulting services provided to DH to: (a) coordinate project
preparation (US$15,600) (b) prepare the detailed engineering designs for the road im-
provement components (US$1,068,000); (c) prepare design standards and review pave-
ment designs prepared by the consultants in (b) (US$61,100); (d) prepare the TORs to
contract, and then carry out the environmental impact assessment (EIA) studies for the
roads improvement component (US$147,200); (e) review DH's organization, assess the
organizational shortcomings and recommend improvements (US$12,250); (f) assess the
most immediate maintenance needs (US$20,000); (g) install and run the highway design
and maintenance model (HDM) (US$7,500); and (h) prepare TORs to hire a consultant
to prepare and help to execute the pilot unpaved road stabilization program (US$25,000).
USec. Transport consulting services to: (a) prepare the TORs to contract the
technical assistance and consultants to set up the national vehicle registry (US$26,500);
and (b) review the Undersecretariat's organization and recommend improvements
(US$30,000).
USec. Administration and Finance consulting services to design, set up and
implement an improved, computerized budgeting, accounting and budget management
system (US$128,000).
3.14   The PPF advance will be refinanced with loan proceeds as soon as the proposed
project becomes effective. The amounts disbursed under the advance have been included
as part of project costs.
3.15   Detailed engineering designs for the road improvement components were done
by CONSULPAR and FORAGRO-PARELC both Paraguayan engineering firms and by
SAE-CONTEC an paraguayan-argentinean joint venture, they were assisted at times by
specialized consultants. The designs were professionally done and are sufficiently de-
tailed to allow the works to be tendered confidently. Some construction details are still
to be settled, in particular detailed site tests and investigations are needed to: (a) deter-
mine the exact structure of pavements, especially along side streets that will be used as
the leaves of the clover-leaf intersections, (b) complete design of some intersections and
corners, (c) finalize design of signalling, traffic lights and other traffic control devices,
(d) finalize the street lighting and electrical plans, and (e) finish the detailed plans for
complementary works. It is normal for some of this work to be done by the supervision
consultant in parallel with the supervision of the works; however, because of the number
of tests and site investigations needed, and because of the complexity of the construction,
particularly the ringroad, the qualifications of the supervision consultant is critical. It has
been agreed with MOPC, therefore, that the consultant would be selected from a shortlist
of highly qualified consultants with extensive experience in major urban roadworks.
3.16   Special care was taken to incorporate into the engineering designs, particularly
of the ringroad, physical features that would mitigate the social impact of the roads such
as: sheltered bus waiting areas, large bus-stop bays, sufficient parking for commercial
and business establishments along the routes, lower curbs to access off-street parking lots,
construction of a tunnel under the ringroad to access the wholesale market, overhead
pedestrian crossings at strategic places, traffic light protected at-level pedestrian cross-



- 24 -
ings, wider sidewalks, appropriate street lighting, appropriately sloped sidewalks to avoid
water puddles, use of non-slip material on sidewalk steps, use of center barriers to pre-
vent people from jaywalking, construction of a parallel bicycleway to access a park, and
appropriate landscaping to blend the construction to the surrounding environment.
3.17   Similarly, special care was taken to minimize the environmental consequences of
the project: adequate environmental protection standards for road construction works exist
in Paraguay, these deal with the handling of construction, excavation and fill materials,
the disposal of waste materials, the contamination of streams and water course, limits to
construction dust and fumes, and many other construction related factors. Complying
with these regulations is a normal contractual requirement. However, in the case of the
ringroad additional protective requirements have been imposed on the contractor to limit
dust pollution, to limit the size of construction vehicles that can be used on site, to
specify where and at what times construction materials can be stockpiled, and to demand
construction of the stormwater drainage works before the roadworks are started.
3.18   Detailed engineering for the resurfacing of Rt.6 and for the pilot stabilization
program would be prepared as a part of, and within the project.
E. Project Costs
3.19   Total project costs are estimated to be US$90.0 million, including US$ 9.9
million (about 11 %) in taxes and duties, US$7.6 million of physical contingencies and
US$ 6.6 million of price contingencies. Physical contingencies were estimate as 10% of
base costs. In line with Bank guidelines, price contingencies were estimated as 3.8 %
for 1993, 1.9% for 1994, and 2.7% for 1995, 3.4% for 1996 and 3.6% from 1997 to
1999. The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated to be 62%, some US$
56.1 million.
3.20   Cost estimates for the road improvements are based on quantity estimates in the
detailed engineering, and on unit prices for similar works around June 1992 (Table 3.2).
Road rehabilitation costs are based on work quantities obtained from detailed engineering
for similar projects and unit prices from bids also around June 1992. Engineering servic-
es costs are based on contracts for similar services procured under the PPF advance,
supervision costs were taken from similar services in IDB projects. The costs of studies
and technical assistance were estimated using staff-month rates for foreign and local
consultants comparable to those paid during project preparation. The foreign exchange
component (FEC) of civil works was estimated from similar contracts. The FEC of
engineering services was estimated assuming that supervision contracts and design studies
would be awarded to joint-ventures of foreign and local firms with a limited participation
of foreign consultants. However, technical assistance for institutional development is
expected to be provided mainly by a foreign management consultant. For equipment, the
FEC was estimated to be 80% of CIF prices at the port of entry and assuming that DH
would pay all import duties, custom clearance and port costs.



- 25 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(Estimated In Millions of US Dollars at 1994 Prices)
Description          Local  Foreign   Total   Foreign Cost
Cost    Cost    Cost   as % of Item
Civil Works
Road Improvements
Paraguarf - Ita (Rt.1)       1.2      2.1      3.3        65
ItA - Cuatro Mojones         6.4    12.0    18.4          65
Cuatro Mojones - Jct.Rt.9    9.4    17.5    26.9          65
Limpio - Emboscada (Rt.3)    2.2      4.0     6.2         65
Land Acquisition             4.6      0.0      4.6         0
Resurfacing Rt.6               2.1      4.0     6.1         65
Stabilization Program          0.4      0.6      1.0        65
Sub-Total Civil Works         263      40.2    66.5         60
Consulting Services
Engineering
Civil Works Supervision      1.6      2.4     4.0
Design Rehabilitation of Rt.6    0.1  0.1     0.2
Pilot Stabilization Program           0.1     0.1
Engineering Design of Creeks    0.1   0.2     0.3
PPF Engineering Services              1.1      1.1
Studies
Asuncion Trspt. Master Plan  0.2      0.3     0.5
PPF Environmental Studies             0.1     0.1
Technical Assistance & Training
MOPC Management Asistce.              1.0      1.0
Environmental Unit                    0.1     0.1
DPP Strengthening                     0.1     0.1
National Vehicle Registry             1.0      1.0
PPF TA Expenditures                   0.3      0.3
Sub-Total Consulting Services  2.0      6.8     8.8         75
Equipment                       0.1      0.4      0.5        80
Base Cost                      28.4    47.4    75.8          62
Physical Contingencies          2.9      4.7      7.6
Price Contingencies             2.4      4.2      6.6
Total Cost                     33.7    56.3    90.0           62



- 26 -
F. Project Financing
3.21   The Bank would finance 72% of project cost, including US$ 9.4 million equiva-
lent of local costs. The Government of Paraguay would finance the remaining project
costs.
Financing Plan
(USS million)
Local        Foreign       Total
IBRD                              9.4           55.6         65.0
Government of Paraguay           25.0            -           25.0
Total Project Costs              34.4           55.6         90.0
G. Project Implementation
3.22   Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOPC. The Undersecre-
tary of Public Works through its Directorate of Highways (DH) would manage the
contracting of all civil works, the related supervision, the engineering for the resurfacing
of Rte.6, the design of the improvements to the Ytay and the Lambare creeks, and the
implementation of its portion of the technical assistance. DH would also be responsible
for procuring the laboratory equipment in coordination with the Directorate of Goods and
Supplies. The Environmental Unit which also reports to the Undersecretary would
implement its part of the technical assistance.
3.23   The Undersecretariat of Administration and Finance would coordinate the organi-
zation management study. Once the results of the study have been discussed with the
Bank and agreement has been reached as to which recommendations would be implement-
ed under the project, the Minister and his Undersecretaries would take the leadership in
implementing those recommendations and all administrative units would follow with their
respective actions.
3.24   The Undersecretariat of Transport through the Directorate of Land Transport
would establish the National Vehicle Registry and through the Planning Office (OPIT),
which currently reports to it, carry out the Asuncion Transport Master Plan.
3.25   A task force would be formed with DH and DVR personnel to manage and
participate in monitoring the Unpaved-Road Stabilization Program. The task force would
receive engineering technical assistance from foreign consultants with previous experience
in sulphonated-oil road stabilization and would be trained on the job on how to use and
follow up the performance of the oil.
3.26   The Undersecretary of Public Works through the Directorate of Highways would
provide overall coordination and would be responsible for reporting requirements includ-
ing preparation of quarterly reports for the Bank, and would take the lead in organizing
yearly progress review meetings.
3.27   The civil works have been arranged by MOPC to be done by contractors in 48
months or less and the proposed project has been scheduled to be completed in five years
(1994-1998). This schedule is technically acceptable although it departs from the Bank's



- 27 -
standard disbursement profile for projects in Paraguay which shows the average disburse-
ment period for all Bank projects in the country to be eight years. The standard profile,
however, does not reflect recent experience, does not include highway projects, and does
not reflect recent improvements at MOPC. Timing the project within the proposed
schedule is technically feasible and at negotiations the government agreed to adhere to
the financial implementation schedule in Table 3.3 and the physical schedule in Table
3.4.
H. Procurement
3.28  All contracts for road improvement and road rehabilitation would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB) among prequalified bidders. Local
competitive bidding (LCB), satisfactory to the Bank, would be used to contract the short
and scattered sections on which the sulphonated oil would be tried, and limited interna-
tional bidding (LIB) would be used for the procurement of goods. ICB would amount
to about US$72.8 million equivalent, approximately 99% of all civil works, LCB would
be used for about US$1.2 million equivalent, 1% of civil works, and LIB would amount
to about US$600,000.
3.29  There will be four ICB contracts. One worth about US$26.0 million for the
Paraguarf - Ita section (worth about US$4.0 million) and the Ita - Guarambare - Ypane -
iRemby - Cuatro Mojones section (worth about US$22.0 million). Both sections together
form the south access to Asunci6n and packaging of the two into one contract would be
allowed. A second contract worth about US$32.0 million for the construction of the
ringroad (Cuatro Mojones - Defensores del Chaco - Madame Lynch - to the junction with
Rt.9). A third contract worth about US$7.5 million would cover the reconstruction and
paving of the Limpio - Emboscada road, the northern access to Asunci6n. The fourth
contract would be for the resurfacing of Rt.6 and it would be worth about US$7.5 mil-
lion.
3.30  Up to five small contracts (about US$250,000 each) may be necessary to carry
out the pilot road-stabilization program (Annex 3). They would be worth about US$1.2
million in aggregate and would be procured using LCB procedures.
3.31  The computers, software and installation costs necessary to implement the Nation-
al Motor Vehicle Registry (about US$400,000), and specialized equipment for the roads
laboratory (about US$200,000) would be procured on the basis of limited international
bidding (LIB) invited among manufacturers with local representation who can therefore
provide technical assistance and maintenance for the equipment.
3.32  All consulting services, about US$10.4 million would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines and procedures.
3.33  Issuing bid documents, assessing proposals and awarding contracts would be the
responsibility of the respective executing departments within MOPC. However, the
Comptroller General of the Nation (CGN), formerly a branch of the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) and now an independent agency with ministerial rank that reports directly to the
Senate, reviews all government bidding documents ex-ante and all bid evaluations and
contract award proposals ex-post.



- 28 -
SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENT
(US$ millions equivalent)
ITEMS              ICB      LCB    OTHER    N.B.F.    TO-
TAL
Civil Works
Road Improvements and      72.8                -         5.0    77.8
Resurfacing Rt.6          (56.2)                        (0.0)  (56.2)
Road Stabilization          -        1.2        -        -       1.2
(0.8)                       (0.8)
Eguipment                     -        -         0.61      -       0.6
(0.4)             (0.4)
Consulting Services           -        -        10.4       -      10.4
(7.6)             (7.6)
TOTAL                       72.8       1.2      11.0       5.0   90.0
(56.2)    (0.8)     (8.0)     (0.0)  (65.0)
Notes: I/ L.I.B. = Limited International Bidding
N.B.F. = Not bank Financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan
3.34 Paraguayan tendering procedures are governed by a 1909 law, frequently modi-
fied but not codified. The law, by now, contains a number of provisions incompatible
with Bank guidelines and procedures, particularly for ICB. CGN and the MOF agree
that for Bank procedures to prevail, specific reference to all the differences between Bank
and Paraguayan procedures has to be made in the loan agreement. Annex 10 lists those
differences and indicates what specific provisions should be included in the loan docu-
ments.
3.35   The use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the procurement of civil
works and of goods, the use of the standard prequalification documents for contractors,
and the standard form of contract for consultants, was discussed and agreed with MOPC
and ratified at negotiations.
3.36   Prior review and the Bank's no-objection will be required for all bidding docu-
ments and award proposals for civil works and goods contracts, whether procured under
ICB, LCB or LIB rules, and for consultants. These arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations and would result in the prior review of almost 100% of Bank financed
contracts.
I. Loan Disbursements
3.37   The Bank loan would be disbursed against allocated expenditures as follows:
,Category I  Civil Works         75% of expenditures in local currency
or 100%  of expenditures in foreign
currency;
Category II Consulting Services  100%;



- 29 -
Category III Equipment           85% of expenditures in local currency
or 100% of expenditures in foreign
currency.
The closing date to draw reimbursements from the Loan account will be June 30,
1999.
3.38  Bank loan funds are expected to be disbursed over a period of five-years (FY
1995 - 1999). The schedule of estimated expected disbursements is in Table 3.5.
3.39   An aggregate amount of up to US$1.5 million has been included in the project
costs to refinance the project preparation facility advance. It is for expenditures incurred
on engineering and technical assistance services used in project preparation. Disburse-
ment-related matters were discussed and agreed with the Government and would be
confirmed at negotiations.
J. Disbursements, Special Account and Auditing
3.40   All disbursements from the loan account would be made following fully docu-
mented disbursement applications. To maintain an adequate flow of funds and pay
eligible expenditures expeditiously and with a minimum of administrative delay, the
Government would establish a Special Account in the Central Bank of Paraguay, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, at the Government's
request deposit from the loan account into the Special Account, an aggregate amount
equivalent to a maximum of US$3.0 million (the average quarterly estimated expendi-
tures). Withdrawals from the Special Account would be made as needed and the Account
would be replenished by the Bank periodically at the request of the Government. Re-
cords of the Special Account deposits and withdrawals would be available for review by
Bank supervision missions and would be audited annually by an independent auditor.
3.41   An independent external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, would, in a timely
manner: (i) audit all expenditures incurred under the project for exactness and efficiency,
(ii) audit project records and accounts, and the Special Account, and (iii) certify that
generally accepted accounting standards and practices, and accounting methods and
procedures are consistently applied, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. Annual Audit
Reports shall be presented by the Borrower to the Bank no later than three months after
the end of each calendar year.
K. Reporting Requirements, Consultation and Project Monitoring
3.42   The Director of Highways with the assistance of the Director OPIT and the
Director of the Computing Center, would prepare quarterly progress reports for the
Bank, to be submitted within one month of the conclusion of each quarter, providing
information on expenditures for, and physical progress on the: (i) civil works, (ii) con-
sulting services: engineering services, studies and technical assistance and training, and
(iii) equipment purchases. The reports would also provide estimates of expected expen-
ditures and progress for the forthcoming quarter.
3.43   The last quarterly report of every year, starting with the conclusion of FY 1993,
which would be submitted within the first two months of the following year, would also
contain: (i) the road maintenance program as carried out in the fiscal year just concluded,
(ii) the proposed maintenance program (road by road, and task by task) for the coming
year, including the lengths to be maintained road by road, (iii) an up-dated evaluation of



- 30 -
the condition of the network road by road, and (iv) an updated comparative (year-to-year)
account of traffic volumes on each main road section as results from the traffic counting
program.
3.44   In addition, MOPC would inform the Bank: (a) a month before the budget
proposal for MOPC is submitted to Congress, of the contents of such proposal, item by
item and project by project including separately the proposed maintenance expenditures;
(b) within a month of Congress' approval of the budget, of the contents of MOPC's
budget, item by item and project by project including maintenance; and (c) within a
month of the conclusion of each fiscal year, starting with FY 1993, of MOPC's budget-
ary execution for the fiscal year, item by item and project by project including the main-
tenance.
3.45   Formal meetings would take place every year, within three months of the conclu-
sion of the fiscal year, to review project progress. The meeting would review also
progress achieved in: road maintenance, in carrying out the institutional development
objectives of the project, execution of the technical assistance component, execution of
the socio-environmental mitigation plan; and review the proposed annual project and road
maintenance program for the upcoming year. The meeting would also review MOPC's
overall budgetary execution the preceding year, and the prospective project and mainte-
nance budget for the current year including their correspondence with agreed targets.
Tle meeting to be held not later than March 31, 1996, will be the Mid-term Review on
the project. At this meting particular attention will be paid to assessing progress achieved
in reaching the project's key objective of the strengthening MOPC's organization and
operational capacity. The reporting, review and consultation arrangements were con-
firmed at negotiations.
3.46   Based on the information MOPC would systematically collect and report (as
described above), the Bank would closely monitor the following project related parame-
ters:
-     actual against expected budgetary allocations (Table 2.3);
-     actual versus expected budgetary appropriations (Table 2.5);
-     actual versus expected project costs (Table 3.2)
-     actual against the expected implementation schedule (Table 3.3);
-     the actual against the expected disbursement schedule (Table 3.4);
-     periodic (bi-annual) traffic counts on the road network;
-     actual versus expected economic rates of return of civil works subpro-
jects;
-     actual versus expected targets dates for execution of the Management
Study;
-     actual versus agreed target dates for implementing the Management
Study's recommendations-,
-     increases in budgetary execution as a measure of progress in reaching the
project's principal objective of strengthening MOPC's organization and
capacity.
L. Socio-Environmental Impact
3.47  Improvement and rehabilitation of existing roads in already developed corridors,
has normally no major socio-environmental impact. However, because the project in-
cludes reconstruction and enlargement to 4-lanes of Asuncidn's ringroad, including three
major overpasses at crossroads, and a considerable improvement of the souther access



- 31 -
to the city, a special effort was made to assess the social and environmental impacts of
the project works, and devise mitigatory measures to minimize that impact. The ringroad
in particular, was likely to create a considerable 'barrier effect' on neighboring residen-
tial areas, and the designs were carefully adapted to avoid this and many other socio-
environmental problems. As much as possible, the design was also made aesthetically
pleasing and unintrusive to the surrounding landscape.
3.48   Financed by the PPF advance (para. 3.13 above), and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, a full socio-environmental impact assessment study was carried
out. The study included: (i) identification of the positive and negative impacts on physi-
cal, bio-ecologic and socio-economic-cultural conditions of the area, (ii) identification of
standard environmental protection measures, and additional project specific measures that
would be necessary to preserve and/or improve the above conditions, including avoidance
of the barrier effect of the ringroad, provision of over- and under-passes, bicycleways,
bus-stop bays, sheltered waiting areas for commuters, parking, landscaping etc., (iii)
identification of all properties affected by the project, (iv) carrying out a headcount of
people affected, (v) a socioeconomic survey of the population in the affected properties,
(vi) identification of the land tenure situation for each property affected, (vii) the valua-
tion of plots, buildings and constructions on them, (viii) identification of the legal frame-
work applicable to the acquisition of lands, buildings and constructions, (ix) identification
of the agencies and organizations responsible for carrying out the provisions of the local
legislation on land and property acquisitions and their capacity to implement the neces-
sary actions, (x) identification of the affectees' preferred governmental action: whether
just compensation, government organized relocation to alternative plots and houses, or
any other type of action preferences, (xi) development of detailed mitigatory and socio-
environmental protection plans and programs, and (xii) development of a community
information and participation program.
3.49   The report, a summary of which is in Annex 11, assessed, for each road section
in the project, the physical, bio-ecologic and socio-cultural conditions as they currently
are, and as they would be after the project is done. This allowed to identify the positive
and negative impacts of 10 project effects, on 36 socio-environmental variables. The
impacts were ranked from highly negative (-5) to highly positive (+5), where zero
reflects no impact. A weighted incremental impact of the project on each road section
was estimated, and a plan of mitigatory measures to neutralize negative impacts was then
devised.
3.50   The overall incremental environmental impact, section by section, ranged from
moderately positive (Limpio - Emboscada section) to slightly negative (Itt - Ytorord
section) with most impacts being slightly positive (Paraguar! - Ita and Cuatro Mojones -
Rt.9 sections) or neutral (Ytoror6 - Remby and Remby - Cuatro Mojones sections). The
plan of mitigatory measures that allows arriving at this situations includes four specific
programs which would be implemented concurrent with the project: (1) a program to
protect natural resources, (2) a program to protect historic properties and cultural assets,
(3) a signalling and public safety program, (4) a pollution control program for the project
area, and (5) a compensation and relocation program. In addition, as a result of the
study, a number of recommendations to improve the aesthetic impact of the proposed
works were made and incorporated into the design drawings.
3.51   The program to protect natural resources would be enforced by the Environmen-
tal Unit of the Ministry and would include (a) ensuring that contractors adhere to the
General Technical Environmental Specifications currently in force in Paraguay including
additional requirements defined for this particular project, both of which would be made



- 32 -
part of the specific conditions of contracts for the civil works; and (b) a reforestation
program which includes detailed reforestation standards to be used along the right of way
and on the median. The reforestation would be carried out in collaboration with the
municipalities along the road sections.
3.52   There are three historic places to be preserved along the roads in the project: the
Ytoror6 Park, the grounds and the church at Yaguar6n, and the historic center and
church of Emboscada. The Environmental Unit of the Ministry would consult with an
archeologist, and under a special agreement between MOPC and the Ministry of Educa-
tion, the Directorate of Cultural Assets would become involved in ensuring that the
preservation is properly done. Moreover, an archeologist would be asked to assess the
historic and/or cultural value of any property that needs to be demolished as a result of
the project and appropriate measures would be taken to preserve or relocate the site if it
is found to be of historic value.
3.53   The signalling and public safety program would entail enacting regulations and
enforcing measures to protect the public from the effects of the construction of major
arteries in Asunci6n and in the rural areas along the southern access. The program
includes the provision of public transport stations as opposed to free bus stops along
roads and streets, education by means of audio-visual programs for pedestrians, cyclists
and drivers to be run by schools and other community organizations, regulating the
installation of vendor stalls both along the city streets and along the open highway. The
program would be carried out as a cooperative venture between the Ministry of Works
and the Municipalities in the project area.
3.54   The pollution control program would entail empowering the highway police also
to control and enforce exhaust and noise standards.
3.55   The relocation program in the mitigatory measures plan (para. 3.50) is designed
to deal with the people affected, it includes compensation for losses and help, if neces-
sary, to find alternative housing. The project would affect a total of 471 properties in
various degrees: from very slightly, where the occupants would not have to leave the
property, to considerably, where owners would lose the full property. Currently, there
are 471 families on the properties: 299 owners, 105 leaseholders and 67 occupants, a
total of about 1,833 people. Not all 471 families will have to be resettled, most will not
be displaced as only small portions of the land they are on will be acquired. However,
some would have to leave, and some will use the occasion to move voluntarily. The
heads of all families on the plots, and a few absentee owners (18) were interviewed
during the course of the socio-environmental survey. All except 23 family heads antici-
pate to negotiate successfully with MOPC a just and equitable compensation for whatever
is being acquired from them, and deal with their situation on themselves. The 23 who
did not anticipate to negotiate and settle amicably with MOPC (4 along the southern
access to Asuncidn and 19 along the ringroad) would, presumably, litigate the purchase
of their land, and would force MOPC to use standard judicial expropriation procedures.
3.56   The established legal, regulatory and administrative framework to carry out land
acquisitions, and, if necessary, to expropriate lands, is summarized in Annex 11 in the
form of a legal-administrative flow-chart of activities. The process includes ample
opportunity for administrative and judicial appeals, the appointment of independent
appraisers if no agreement can be reached on price, and the judicial adjudication of dis-
putes. Regardless of whether or not amicable settlements are reached with the current
owners, leaseholders, and occupiers of the plots, a law has to be passed by Congress
declaring the lands along the roads in the project a 'public necessity." This is essential



- 33 -
for MOPC to obtain the necessary funds to carry out the acquisitions, and to enable the
legal-administrative process to proceed. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that
Congress enacts this law.
3.57   Moreover, as is variously recommended in the socio-environmental impact assess-
ment study, land acquisition should take place promptly and swiftly to prevent an escala-
tion of anxieties and uncertainties caused by the acquisition process. To ensure prompt-
ness, it would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures for the civil works and
their corresponding supervision, that all lands necessary to carry out the project shall
have been acquired, and that all people in those lands shall have been resettled according
to the Resettlement Program submitted by the government and accepted by the Bank.
3.58   As part of the relocation program (para.3.50), MOPC has agreed to establish a
special desk for affectees and their community organizations. The desk will provide: (a)
information about the development of the project, current and future construction activi-
ties, timetables, etc.; (b) help in identifying available options to seek relief, before the
land acquisition process, and during and after the construction works; (c) help owners
and dwellers in getting their compensation payments quickly and expeditiously; (d) help
affected families find alternative housing either in the market or through the National
Housing Corporation (CONAVI); and (e) help affectees, who so prefer, process applica-
tions for alternative housing with CONAVI.
3.59   A similar assistance desk would be established at CONAVI. A special agreement
between the Ministry and CONAVI would ensure the establishment of the desk. It would
be a condition of loan effectiveness that the special agreement has been signed.
3.60   The Environment Unit of MOPC -would follow up the implementation of the
mitigation plan and each of the programs mentioned.
3.61   DH's technical construction specifications have been reviewed and provide ade-
quate socio-environmental protection. MOPC has enacted basic, but detailed norms for
the medical attention of workers at road construction sites, and there are general environ-
mental requirements with respect to: the operation of quarries, the use of borrow pits,
the disposal of materials, the installation of asphalt plants, mitigating the effect of the
construction on erosion of side slopes and sedimentation of water courses, and mitigating
the effect on water, air (dust and fumes) and noise pollution. Conformance with these
regulations is routinely monitored by MOPC's environmental unit.
3.62   The project is also being used to help to prevent future flooding of the areas
along the Mme. Lynch section of the ringroad. The floods are mostly the consequence
of a lack of proper drainage and flood control canals. Provision has been made in the
project, at a cost of about US$5.8 million, for the reconstruction of the canal along the
Mme. Lynch section of the ringroad, and for the improvement of the heads of the Ytaf
and Lambare creeks which are the natural drainage of the area.



- 34 -
4. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis
4.1    Economic returns were estimated for the four road improvement components of
the project. The streams of economic cost and benefits of not doing the improvements
(base case, ALT 0) were compared with those of carrying them out (the with project
case, ALT 1). Both options were modelled by consultants: SAE-CONTEC (Argenti-
neanlParaguayan) for Paraguarf - ItA - Ypane - Nemby to Cuatro Mojones, and for the
Limpio - Emboscada road; and FORAGRO-PARELC (Paraguayan) for Cuatro Mojones -
Defensores del Chaco -Mme. Lynch -to the junction with Rt.9. Both consultants used
the highway design and maintenance model (HDM) developed by the Bank, to simulate
the pattern of evolution of costs and benefits. The analysis was done for an investment
life of 20 years, improved maintenance policies over current practices were assumed.
The economic feasibility studies as well as the technical studies were placed in the Project
File (Annex 11).
4.2    The techno-economic studies for the rehabilitation of Rt.6 (from its junction with
Rt.7 to km 100) are still to be done; similarly, no economic analysis was done for the
pilot unpaved-road stabilization program, or the institutional strengthening component.
However, because the rehabilitation involves comparatively low cost works and traffic
levels on the road are high, the rate of return for the works is expected to be acceptable.
If use of the sulphonated oil proves workable, the stabilization program may produce
significant benefits in the future. The institutional strengthening component may produce
substantial benefits, if sustained.
4.3    The consultant's analysis of the improvement works was done in constant 1992
guaranies. The analysis compared the economic costs of the roadworks with benefits on
account of (i) savings in vehicle operating costs (voc); (ii) savings in crew and passenger
time'3; and, (iii) where applicable, reductions in accident costs. Vehicle operating cost
savings for generated traffic were computed on all sections except Limpio - Emboscada
where the works are not expected to generate new traffic. Generated traffic savings were
computed at 50% of the value of savings to existing traffic.
4.4   , Current traffic volumes on the roads were measured by the consultants, they also
did origin-destination surveys; these measurements were adjusted for seasonal variations.
Seasonal variations were estimated from historic counts at locations on the sections, or
on representative, similar sections elsewhere on the network. Traffic growth rates were
based on estimates of annual growth of GDP and traffic growth elasticities with respect
to GDP growth. GDP growth was assumed to be in the range of 4.0% - 5.5% p.a.
1/   SAE-CONTEC used the following values of time: for time saved during business
or working hours Gl.2, 100 (about US$1.75) per rider/hour for car riders, and
Gl.322 (about US$0.27) per rider/hour for bus riders; for time saved during non-
business or working hours G/.629 (about US$0.52) per rider/hour for car riders,
and G/.97 (about US$0.08) per rider/hour for bus riders.
FORAGRO-PARELC used somewhat more conservative estimates: for time
saved during business or working hours G/.495 (about US$0.41) per rider/hour
irrespective of where they rode; and for time saved during non-business or work-
ing hours G/. 150 (about US$0.13) per rider/hour.



- 35 -
depending on the road section. Traffic elasticities to GDP growth were 1.5 for light
vehicles, 0.8 for buses, and 1.0 for trucks. Traffic diverted to the newly improved
routes was estimated from the origin destination surveys.
4.5   Investment costs were based on detailed engineering cost estimates and include
supervision, physical contingencies, and land acquisition costs where applicable, net of
taxes, duties and other transfers. Vehicle operating costs were estimated by the con-
sultants based on estimates of operating cost element prices (fuel, oil, tires, vehicle costs,
crew costs, etc.) net of taxes and transfers. A standard conversion factor of 0.8 was used
to translate financial costs into economic costs.
4.6    All components are economically justified. The best estimate of the internal
economic rate of return of each section in the improvement component of the project is
as follows:
Economic rates of return, road improvement component
Road section                        Estimated            ERR
economic costs
(G/.bln.)           (%)
Paraguarf - Ita                                4.8            8.9
Ita - Cuatro Mojones                          27.6           14.3
Cuatro Mojones - Rte 9                        43.9           27.4
Limpio - Emboscada                             9.2           10.8
4.7    The sensitivity of these best estimates to variations in cost and/or benefits was
tested and the results show that even in the worst case scenario (10% increase in costs
and at the same time a 5% decrease in benefits) all road sections are still economically
justified:
Sensitivity of the ERR
Costs       + 10%      + 10%      -10%       -10%
Section
Benefits    unchgd      -5%      unchgd      +5%
Paraguarf - Ita                  8.6        8.4       9.3        9.5
Ita - Cuatro Mojones            12.6       11.7       16.4       17.6
Cuatro Mojones - Rt.9           25.8       24.9       29.2       30.0
Limpio - Emboscada              9.8        9.3        12.0       12.5



- 36 -
4.8    A more detailed summary of the economic analysis is in Tables 4.1 to 4.9 and
in the following paragraphs.
4.9   Paraguarf - It This is the southernmost section of the south access to Asuncidn
(see Map IBRD 24199) and long-distance traffic is joined along its length by commuter
and urban traffic. Initially, the intention was to improve Rt.M from Paraguarf to San
Lorenzo, where it joins Rt.2, and from there on to the ringroad, a 50 km section of road
altogether. Routes 1 (the road to the South and Argentina) and 2 (the road to Ciudad del
Este and Brazil) are the two highest traffic corridors in the country, and when they join
at San Lorenzo traffic volumes are very high. San Lorenzo itself is not a city prepared
to handle those volumes on its city streets, which is how it is done now. The section
Paraguarf - San Lorenzo was divided into six links each of which was assessed separate-
ly. All links proved to have high economic rates of return except the southern extreme,
Paraguarf to Ita, which had a marginally acceptable rate of return (8.9%) only if time
savings are included. However, in an urban/suburban situation as along the project, time
savings are of the essence. The higher return links: Ita - San Lorenzo, were then re-
viewed again in the context of a network alternative as described in paragraph 4.10
below.
4.10   The main benefit of improving the Paraguarf - Ita link is higher vehicle speeds;
they are expected to increase from 65 km/h to 80 km/h for trucks and buses, and from
70 km/h to 90 km/h for light vehicles. Provision has been made in the design to slow
traffic down at the town of Yaguar6n where there is a historic church and where locals
and visitors are likely to be about. Long sections of rumple-strips will be built into the
pavement to force traffic to slow down. The section was divided into two links both of
which have considerable volumes of traffic (Table 4.1), their average weighted ERR is
8.9% (Table 4.2).
4.11  ItA - 4 Moiones The economic return of this section were assessed in the context
of a small network (see Map IBRD 24199). It starts at Ita and has two branches that
connect back at Cuatro Mojones, one branch is the proposed new road section Ita -
Ypane, and the improvement (widening to four lanes) of existing roads from Ypane to
Cuatro Mojones; the other branch follows Rt. 1 to San Lorenzo, along Eusebio Ayala to
the junction on the ringroad, and then along the ringroad to Cuatro Mojones. On this
network the way traffic currently flows and the way it would flow with the project can
be simulated (rable 4.3). The effect of the project on each link in the network can then
be compared, with and without the project, and the total benefit of reducing congestion
on one branch, while increasing traffic on the other, can be assessed. The growth rates
on existing traffic along the route proposed to be improved (with less congestion than the
alternative) were estimated to be 7.2% p.a. for light vehicles, 4.8% for buses and 5.5%
for trucks. Traffic on Rt. 1 (the current route and consequently quite congested) was
estimated to grow at 4% p.a. for all vehicles (to account for the effect of the present and
likely increasing future congestion).
4.12   The analysis showed that improving Rt. 1: Ita - San Lorenzo - Eusebio Ayala,
yielded high rates of return for individual links, and 21% on average. However, in view
of the small difference in economic return between improving ItA - San Lorenzo and con-
structing a new road from Ita to Ypan6 and widening the existing road from Ypan6 to
Nembi to Cuatro Mojones as proposed in the project, 21% vs. 14.3% (Table 4.4), the
government preferred, and the Bank agreed, to proceed with the construction/improve-
ment alternative.



- 37 -
4.13   Cuatro Mojones - Rt.9 This is a section of Asuncidn's ringroad. For analysis
purposes it was divided into six links from one major intersection to the next. There are
six major intersections along the ringroad. Table 4.5 shows traffic volumes on each of
the sections in selected years of the 20-year period analyzed; table 4.6 presents the
summary economic costs and benefits for the full section. This is the costliest component
of the project (about US$38.5 million including contingencies and work supervision) and
yields a robust 22.6% ERR excluding time savings and 27.4% if time savings are includ-
ed.
4.14 Works include the improvement of a storm drainage canal that currently runs
alongside the Madame Lynch part of the ringroad which regularly overflows even with
minor rains, flooding the road and the surrounding area. The storm drainage component
associated with the proposed road improvement was evaluated separately. Benefits for
it were estimated to be the avoidance of the effects of major floods every 1 1/2 year (a
somewhat conservative assumption as major floods tend to occur a times a year). Bene-
fits were twofold: property damage savings (900 houses at a G/.3.5 million, US$2,500,
each), and savings from interference with traffic (a 5-km diversion for 30,000 vehicles
is the alternative, though most often traffic simply comes to a standstill). The compo-
nent's ERR is 22.4% (Table 4.7).
4.15   All six road intersections were assessed separately to compare the returns of
improving them at-grade as opposed to constructing viaducts. For three it was concluded
that viaducts would be better than at-grade intersections.
4.16   Limpio- Emboscada The project is to pave the existing earth road. Benefits are
mostly vehicle operating cost savings and some time savings. Table 4.8 shows the
present and expected traffic flows and Table 4.9 the cost and benefits streams with and
without the value of time savings. The proposed work-s were assessed assuming that the
rest of the Route 3, from Emboscada to Tacuara is not built yet. The paving yields an
economic return of about 10.8% including time value and 10.6% without.
B. Project Risks
4.17   MOPC's proposed investment program for the next six years (1993-1998) entails
a two- to three-fold increase in project and maintenance spending (Table 2.3). Project
spending (including the proposed project) would grow from the average US$28 million
invested in the last eight years to US$84 million, and maintenance spending from US$5
million average, to US$13 million. These levels of spending are considerablyhigher than
those MOPC has traditionally been able to carry out.
4.18   Under this scheme, MOPC intends to carry out the civil works of the proposed
project in 48 months or less, while at the same time implementing another six foreign-
financed projects: one with OECF (it includes the purchase of large quantities of mainte-
nance equipment and the resurfacing of paved roads throughout the country), four fi-
nanced by IDB (Yby-Yau - Santa Rosa, Cuero Fresco - Concepcidn, both of which also
include a collection of resurfacings, and two rural road projects: one of which was just
approved and signed), and an assortment of roadworks financed by FONPLATA. In
addition, a considerable increase in maintenance funding is necessary as (i) the Bank
would want to see a strong commitment to improved maintenance, and (ii) an effort
should be made to use effectively the costly new maintenance equipment purchased with
OECF help. Further, MOPC plans to carry out a substantial program of investments
financed with local resources and is seeking additional foreign financing (particularly
from IDB) for another collection of new projects.



- 38 -
4.19   These large increases in investments are being sought at a time when Paraguay's
public finances appear tight, and the Ministry of Finance, however willing, may find
itself hard pressed to decide where to take the resources from. Hence, the proposed
project needs strong protection against short counterpart funding. It would be cove-
nanted, therefore, that no less than the following counterpart budgetary appropriations
would be made each year for purposes of carrying out the project and for maintenance
expenditures, all measured in equivalent 1992 Guaranies:
YEARLY MANTEBNANCE AND WORLD BANK PROJECr APPROPRIATIONS
_tn miflions of 1994 guaranies)
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       199
Malioenance    19.600     26,000     26,000     26,000     26,000     26,000
WB Project     9,200      9,500       9,000      9,000      3,000
TOTAL      28,300.00   35,500.00   35,000.00   35,000.00   34,000.00   26,000.00
(1994 USS)     14.40      17.75       17.50      17.50      17.00      13.00
4.20   The Bank would monitor strict adherence to these spending levels, and provision
would be made for yearly meetings to take place within three months of the conclusion
of a fiscal year, to review the previous fiscal year's budgetary execution and the budget-
ary allocations for the next fiscal year. The review meetings would start in 1994, at
which time the budgetary execution for FY1993 and the budgetary allocations for
FY1994 would be reviewed. Reporting requirements would be covenanted so that the
Bank is provided promptly the budgetary execution and allocation information to monitor
effectively the above figures. Should these spending levels not materialize the Bank
would have the right to suspend disbursements and eventually cancel part, or the totality
of the loan.
4.21   Finally, the burden of managing the proposed volume of works, would be strain-
ing enough for any large, well managed organization; MOPC is small and not particular-
ly well managed. To minimize implementation risks an intensive supervision effort is
planned (Table 3.3). Supervision missions will closely follow project performance and
monitor the parameters mentioned in paragraph 3.46.



- 39 -
S. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    At negotiations the following agreements were reached with the Government:
(a)   that before the Loan Agreement becomes effective a special law will
have been passed allowing the government to acquire the lands necessary
to carry out the civil works, and that a special agreement will have been
signed between MOPC and the National Housing Corporation (CONAVI)
for purposes of assisting affectees of the land acquisition process (paras.
3.56 and 3.59);
(b)   that a management study of MOPC will be carried out before June 30,
1995, that the consultant's recommendations will be discussed with the
Bank within three months of the conclusion of the study and that recom-
mendations agreed to be carried out under the loan will be implemented
by December 31, 1995 (para. 2.20);
(c)   that not less than the following budgetary appropriations will be made to
MOPC each year: (i) for counterpart funding the civil works investments
included in the project, and (ii) for funding the maintenance of the high-
way network, all measured in constant 1994 Guaranies (para. 2.31):
YEARLY bMNTElNANCE ANID WORLD EUNK PROJEC APPROPRIATIONS
__________    ___________   Cn millions of 1994 guaranics)
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
Maintance|    19,600      26,000     26,000     26,000     26,000     26,000
WNB Project    9,200      9,500       9,000      9,000      3,000
TOTAL      28,800.00   35,500.00   35,000.00    35,000.00    34,000.00   26,000.00
(1994 US$)     14.40      17.75      17.50       17.50      17.00      13.00
(d)   that, in addition to quarterly progress reports (to be submitted within a
month of the end of each respective quarter, para. 3.42) of which the last
for each fiscal year (which would be submitted within the first two
month of the following year, para.3.43) would contain information on (i)
the maintenance program carried out during the year just concluded, (ii)
the proposed maintenance program for the coming year, (iii) the condi-
tion of the network, and (iv) comparative traffic volumes on the road
network; reporting requirements will include MOPC informing the
Bank: (1) a month before the budget proposal for MOPC is submitted to
Congress, of the contents of such proposal, item by item and project by
project including the maintenance; (2) within a month of Congress' ap-
proval of the budget, of the contents of MOPC's approved budget, item
by item and project by project including maintenance; and, (3) within a
month of the conclusion of the fiscal year, starting with FY 1993, of
MOPC's budgetary execution for the fiscal year just concluded, item by
item and construction and maintenance project by construction and main-
tenance project (paras. 2.32 and 3.44);



-40 -
(e)   that formal meetings will take place yearly, within three months of the
conclusion of each fiscal year, starting in 1994, for the purpose of dis-
cussing project progress, overall budgetary execution the preceding year,
and the prospective project and maintenance budget for the current year,
including their correspondence with the agreed targets (above), progress
achieved in road maintenance, in carrying out the institutional develop-
ment and technical assistance components, and of the socio-environmen-
tal mitigatory plans (paras. 2.32 and 3.45); and that the meeting to be
held not later than March 31, 1996 will be labeled the Mid-term Review
of the project and, in addition to the above items, would focus on assess-
ing progress in achieving the project's key objective of strengthening
MOPC's organizational and operational capacity (para 3.45);
(f)   that the project will be implemented according to the schedule in Table
3.4 and that the arrangements to manage project implementation will be
as described in paras. 3.22 to 3.27;
(g)   that the Bank's standard bidding documents for works, standard prequa-
lification documents for contractors, and standard form of contract for
consultants will be used for purposes of carrying out the project; and that
the inclusion of a description of the differences between Bank procedures
and Paraguayan law in the Loan Agreement will cause Bank procedures
to prevail (paras. 3.34 and 3.35, and Annex 10);
(h)   that prior review, and the Bank's no-objection will be required for all
procurement documents to contract civil works, goods and or consulting
services (para. 3.36);
(i)   that before the Bank disburses any funds from the loan account for the
civil works and their supervision, all lands necessary to be acquired for
purposes of carrying out those civil works will have ben acquired or
expropriated; and that all people living in the area where the works will
be carried out will have been resettled in accordance with the resettle-
ment program presented by the government as part of the Socio-Environ-
mental Evaluation Study (para. 3.56 and 3.57).
5.2   Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$65.0 million equivalent, repayable in twenty years,
including five years of grace, amortized on an annuity basis at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
sar.mst
November 24, 1993



PUBLIC SECTOR DNV/ESTENTS IN TRANSPORT
(nilion Guaranie)
1985            1986             1987             1988             1989             1990
Roads                     7,577            9,489           14,800           10,280           17,204           23,091
RiverFbP&Ut                 936              694              470             499               400            1,010
Air                         140                -                a               5                 -                -
Rai                         IS0              137              207              176              79               210
TOTAL                   8,803.00        10,320.00        15,415.00        10,960.00        17,683.00       24,311.00
US$m                       28.7             30.4             2S.2             19.9             16.8             19.8
% of GNP                    0.7              0.6              0.6              0.4              0.4              0.4
% of GN                     3.4              3.0              3.1              1.8              2.2              2.0
S of F1                    10.0              8.0              6.5              4.7             10.0             n.a.
Sourc: Mbision egimates
Match 1993
-I



EXPECrED PUBLIC SECTOR INVESTMENTS IN TRANSPORT
(by source of funacing, milLion 1992 Guaranies)
1993                        1994                        1995
Loc       Ext       Tot       Loc    Et       Toul      Loc       Ext      Total
Roads          36,395   79,395    116,252   47,650  91,648    139,298   37,413   116,651   154,064
River/Ports     11,926        -     11,926       -        -         -        -         -         -
Air            13,176   52,706     65,882                  -            -         -             -
Rail            3,036         -     3,036    3,838        -     3,838    4,865         -    4,865
TOTAL          64,533   132,101    197,096   51,488  91,648    143,136   42,278   116,651   158,929
USSm             44.5      91.1      135.6    35.5    63.2       98.7    29.2       80.4    109.6
1996                        1997                        1998
Roads          35,763   94,142    129,905   28,465  77,882    106,347   22,950    63,594   86,544
River/Ports         -         -         -        -        -         -        -         -         -
Air                                                   -             -
Rail             6,183        -     6,183        -        -         -        -         -         -
TOTAL          41,946   94,142    136,088   28,465  77,882    106,347   22,950    63,594   86,544
USSm             28.9      64.9      93.8    19.6    53.7        73.3    15.8       43.9      59.7
Source: Mision Estimates bsed on MOPC Planning Office forecasts
Match 1993
0-



-43 -
TABLE 1.3
FORTSTRPI
(Tons, 1990)
ORTI                     lM Is Cbotu                                         Total
River Po
Asuncidn                 187,463           212,593         15,148            415,204
Villct                    12,725           tS4,622        236,1U4            403,531
Concepci6n                 -               294,339         16,742            311,081
Pibar                      277               -              -                  277
Other Port               7.490             64.543           -                72.033
207,955           726,097        268,074          1,202,126
Dry Porf
Ciudad del Ease          215,971           169,760           -              1,085,731
Encamaci6a               47,579            407,466           -               455,045
Pedro J. Caballero        2,948            77,024            -               79,972
Salto del Guairi         -A                122.9             -               126.958
270,522          1,477,14           -             1,747,706
Private Pos                      576               4430               -             1.019.542
1,054,949           2,646,351        268,074         3,969,374
Source: MOPC, Planning Office
July 1992



- 44 -
Table 1.4
SHIPPING FLEET
(1990)
Type of Veuel               State-owned Fleet              Private Fleet                    Total
I        Capacity (tons)      I              Capacity        I             Capacity
(tons)                       (tons)
Solid cargo barge                30              22,500       121              129,936       151             152,436
Liquid cargo barge                4               6,900        16               34,600       20               41,500
Other barges                      5               2,800        19                6,448       24                9,248
Frteezer barges                   1                 350         -                    -         1                350
Motor vesel                      17              23,926        12                7,941       29              31,867
Tanker.                           2               3,210         2                 670         4                3,880
Tugs                              6                   -        19                    -       25                   -
TOTAL                            65              59,686       189              179,595      254              239,281
Source: MOPC, Pbtaning Office (OPrl)
ANNP
July, 1992



- 45 -
Table 2.1
NATIONAL HIGHWAY NETWORK'
(kun, 1991)
Tmnk Roads         Collector Roads        Local Roads            TOTAL
Paved                              1,89                   700                 40              22,629
Gravele                              2U4                   233                   -                $17
Earth                              1,654                 14,313              9,232             25,199
TOTAL                              3,827                 15,246              9,272             2S,345
I/ Roads under tbe renponsility of MOPC
Source: MOPC, Directoate Generl of Highways
July 1992



rMUW1Y Olr PUBC MWo    AM C3NMOCAT9O*U KD=gTARrY IZCULWO
ty VS __t _        now CWEN__"
00"    Ood cm cw on C6    ."  C4" IC. Ir-
mm4               99.2       |        364       2.0    l0J.        3.7   557.3     19.2,X57.2    31.91 523.9          5.4  32,159.7  31,4X64    1,.1   35 659.3
~                                                                  :^147.3                                       44     674 4     1.7     10 2.9  235.3            17.9    417.1      Ii.       379.2      54.9
h      f  10.fl                                  14.2               17.1                212               27                 445      0.2   47e9      9.1  667.9       3.2     M2.        30.3      213.7     Ye.e
o f3. OoW.                                 44.7      47.    se          53.7      5.5      550 e    59.1     13.2    40.7    240.2   115.2  2244.2  U2.2  1,90.1    574.2          73A.6    ,045#4A     N.7
/ _T_ Tqm                                         9.2      45.2     4.3        Ie      56.6       5.0    66.0             104.3     21.6
hk Vm                                     532     J          MA                 77.1               97.3              3.5             216.4    21.2  3524        1.6    574.2      737         0.2       774
D I.    Via                                      I6.6       3.2    27.         9.1     23.4       5.2    24.2       3.2    23.6      21      43.7    I2    37.7        6.2    231.2        2.2      439.2      14.2
cU. hm an,"                                    2.3                74                 9.2                3.0              27.1             24.4            52.0               77.9       2.
U!.      ro=m                                                                                                       2 .     Im  e  .  1.5    24.4  60.9   39.5    223.2         4.3
U.   d FW  Vo                                                                          262 3.                      13.5    SlA
A: T.   V                                        41J4
L  4 Tp_                                  23.7      D.l    24I4                 3                  37.0              23.7    ==                                         121.1       12       237.6      36.2
CAk.  fL JL Too                                                                                                                              563    553   1739      335.5    211.2       44.       217.7      14.9
StO& Tl        - d._                                                                                                                _       294.0    13.4  473.1      56.6   1,00.        42.5      967.0     251.6
D    C atL Tao                                                              _                                                               2593      7.2  521.7    205.1    319.2       1412       355.6     450J
i. Tp  T       _n                                 2.O0      7.7    19.3                2.2                346       0.4    89.7       1.1   295.6    32.5  46M4       205      556.1      31.3      631.7       0.2
Cwh                                       43.4               55.9               72.1      114      37.      12.2    6.6       31.7
WeAdIA & Flh
23k . i Ero-.m                                                                                                                                                                 218.2      16J       271.2      21.3
2k. F _                                                                                                                                      23D.0    0.9  22 .9       2.0    372.        76.4   2,47.2       265.6
i m. _ y &     _m                                                                                                                           354.7     5.0   76         5.1 I  I097.4     314.0   1,4M6.4      295.2
i.C m_                                                                                         _         =                                   67.1      1.3  106.1       2.9    163.6       5.       198.3       1.3
Dk.I.NIh                                        -         -_-                                   -                 -        -       -         56.2      .6  1373 6A             256.2       19_      2916       4C.0



-'~~~~~~~~~~~whf~ i f PmUC weU AI COMMIIIATOI - DIDGTAM ECUnO
__ ______  _7 ly .t ofnpmAkla, M Gon "___
owt    Oqid      G.       Ggbd     ck w      O       C-."    cod    -..t   O.d    C."          .0     C." do           0.-      Qumd       am*     *Oa
:&mg                                                                                                                   IIA      0.3   3.9               112A4     7s e   I.I         41.2
fows.                  UJ13A                       MA      J44       17.3     I.       S5   D .           .2   143                      3755.  37    125  3'    3227.7     25.4     4a        95.7
F --                                    & .7              93         3I                     12.1             16.1      4.2'    2.      7.1   177J      4       19.5     21.1
t?  " .                                 7.4    =           9 9   =          7      =.s    =                    .9   =          2.9    250    43.71             52.4       1.2
373      1.9     39        30.       739      69.3
Dlr.h_                                     32      293.7   1154     264A    121.5    36.1    1549    155.2  214.4   161 I'            13.3399            IA9  1914-5        15.2    142       164.2
i food                                   30._,     , 3NJ3   5319     36.3   572.3      51.1   745.3      5.1  1a.l W01  35              MA _33   tOJ_  1.9                mu.0   4.717
DobiiJC-P /                          _        _        _        _        _     __         _       _       _        _       _      =       =         2199      42.1      474       33.4
t A    1.2      1 7                _14      4363   ,495       341212.  m_     _                   1 9         3       42A*.7  34",2   17*9.9  39.1.1
7A     212.1    16A      214.91    34A    435.4    2431  1.132*|   1.7  2,47.1    39AI 36.71   99    54542|    27   436                  945    7.35*
2.767.7  4I474
_*   3.40= 7I3.9 1 .1*    959   2990*            33.7   2.xxe|   .159A    317A
Cm_hm vo_,"n                    =        =        =        =        =        =             |                        |   ,119    73*    ILAi 1|           I9A      33*|       20.2    6a9
Xtsl                             446      9364    123.      173.    2 0*     2443      113     3439 214   3    1953
147.2             35        1.7    23.9
_=.1    43        33     42.3    174.3   43.9    27.       7.    5-5   39.   tl,.           27.5     4.4    669.2 
R&c__m                                    1.2    2MA*                6.2      2.2_    3                                                                                       I5
3I3      OA      4         .      141i.4    3*  0lB       55*   4033   L31   SW            MJ    93          2I        mu4
=__                       _                                         3-                     .   aI    -    -            ~                        -5               ,  f|mi|n|-  |
6.9    94*                             299._w4      31       3|.3
d.2      31.1
v6do"    ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     t*       21.7    21.2      38.7    27.1    S34 m     36.A     CA.   27*       OA4    353,   94.A   MA         US      353*       54.
379    1.423*    93.7   2,39*  W~   3.3193    131A*    W4 271.    7     7192- 3
53.2    14*  2.3*        315   *9        3r         .2
T_t_- .a      -                                                                -=                -    -'     -4"  X-    - -J -Su                                             -  



MDWThY O CE MUUCW6AM 610 04Wg4CATI0U.DLUGKrAY E3CUmON
~~~~_                              _   _   _     _ _ _e _ __           e p   d   b    %  ~    G     .   u                ____      __      __    _  __     __     _   _   _    _    __ __    _
__-            Y                                                   _                                                                                         44*               3353   10633II 131.7  II5m3
4      .u_b . Few                                                                                                                             4.2  ll.        3*   2.7J5        33.3  I35.1        397*    3,l353
Rai YhpYm.NCbo                                           1,137*            2,172.06
-    W                                                                                                       _                         ZwIw  2343      IM5A.4              313.2    339.4      m9.9    5,447.
.,_ _ _____ __1_ 37.7                                                                                                                                                                                    75A.4
3*,03     227A  3,470.4           246.      I0.1    2,45.                   139.4
h    N a m                      _2=33_                               I34.3               3,56.1                       79.2  3,724.6
pb_                                         54.4     3*A                                                                  I
VM.A. - R.A                                                             IO99 3=.3   430.4            Ka   3,IS3    33.3   1010.   7 1   543.7  3,33.1   343.4 2A .J       =         540S      _
AndJ "_ - _ p                                                                                   I  _       _      =      =      =      =      =     =    =    =   =  =2           4.239J    _          4.430A
11   T _                                              3 17A              35.       4D       29.41
Ib9 f     - . ) *3A                                                                                                                                                        19.4    40D        _
E Tk.9T            T_il               590*                                   309.7    1643      03.1    ISla   3,,10.9
--           *-F.                                       3_6.6                                             94*       3.5   147.2            273.   4G1.2  435.5  347*  13,464.2    39.1 .                    1,10.2 |  
17.4     23.1                        _                                                    _
3A.4               77.5      5.3     49._
A F il_                                                  =         _                                              53*             3,523            1,2133             3.=.7
re A   B ou_ P     _m                                               10*0                                          1044             412J   _           36*             64.5
AmNv I._                                        _                                                                                                     72.7             3=6
aid" i_ bmdm45J                                                           49.2             6596                66.6 =
I     A_, d_                                              179                212*               266.5    _         30A             360*0            3214              349.=
Pb       9l Aagig                                                                                 3.4              15.2  _5.3
Ala.. Ossin                                      26.9               24.7              134.2    206.4    5$1A        4J    74.4
Am APis. Sb_                                                                                               3.1     43.7     3A       0.6
Am           E                                   =        =        =         =        =        = E=               =                          96=-    999J   123.9   3,447.1   57*   36.425.    65*    66,34.9
_j.U  P- Aawvh                                              5.4               10.5               15.3
U4 _  _s - ha                                                                                                                                                                  1343.4
4  M*m -                                                                                                                   _.W9                                                 129.2



MlINISRlY Of rURLIC WORIS AND COMMUlNMCATIONS - BUDGrTARY *X8CtON
(by Iy  o exprnOtw. mdU6l. Giarmah)_ _ _ _ _
im =16                                167                196               1s"               199              1                  1992               193
b~~~~~~~~~~o 3ja.6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~262.7
eRuaii OBCF                                                                                                                                                     19.5                 2.11
SL3TOTAL                       2K.1    7,372J    31.7   9,197.6   10.6  13,77J           7724   9,37.1  1,6.  16,15         1,2.  21 6.7  1,6.7  40,31.1   S,310   31,414.A    9J34     15645.0
HIGHWAY MAINTEKANC                               371.4     676.0   514.1      6l1.0    564.6   1097.6n 7I1         1,401.1     4.0  3,8                          2.7   344.    3 .1    7912.1    9,579. 5.62.1
SUBTOTAL                       371A.      670    514.1       SO       34.6 1 ,6 7.        313   1 .1 J             3 .        72.2  41333 4,1Q.           .    3,299.1   7,912.     953    S,
T_  oE u1bie                                     16.41      2.5    19.6                 30.0              37.6               262               411            116.7               135.2      12.2     199.7       104
FeiCmu  A Ldpi                                   420.0     _        514A                673A0              764.0           1,182.1            ,5763           3,2553             2,941.5     9311                5,678.9
Umoa M    ee                                       5.0      5.5                 5.7            0.5     65  5 D.2               5.0              16.3      0.9   35.9      1.4    167.8       129.0
F1 o _ert                                                                                                                  6,144.4                                                 2961              13S1.0        124.2
E_ N_Lim del FAN_                                                                                                                                                                   12.6      21.5
UtElOAL                       44A          2     539J         to    7G.7         es    31           0o  67.7          6.0  1,04.9      I. &A3,67.    16.4    353.9   1,144S|    366.7    8313
G RANDraAL NW  ct-)    _                    ML  Il7 as   =   . S-2,S4.1A 10,7,4          S                     JI   lgm     24ns.4 ;,J 51 l 4.  2k"4J4  ^2f4|2
YEARLY GRAND TOTAL (C/rn)                   10,406.6           12,975.2            11,341   1         5,734.9           32,365.9         41,0403           71,457.1          179,415.9            292,357.i
Us DQor  E    w  Rift                               306.70              33920              55M0               550-0            1,056.20          1,229.91         1,325.20           5I0.0SM              1,750.0
GRANDTOTAL_CM_               D_           6.61  27.91 7Z1Z 31 S [ 2721 7Z21 2ZS1                                                 III"  1Ii32   144 49i.  346r 83Jr 2.744
YEARLY GRAND TOTAL   1                |SL     33.9               3e.0               34.3               27.7               30.6             33.7              53.9              119.6                167J
(') Easms for fulf b   bbsd   in1ell.arn for fni ,m mmWa.
Noe: 1992 Im  1993 b. oepAD    or3 if faeip deb.
S_mo: Buday EFaglm  Ubdety of Pudeo Worlm me Com   tmi, UeLeoruat of F                    .
Ex_b  Row:   hierneudoi b4o y Faud, _hsmo,rl F Da1 SLdiec
Ocwbe 1M3



INixrY OF PUKJC WO=C AND COMNUNIAT3s - BUDGErARY EXBCUnOi
INS195                6               1917                                   1919                19%9                 1991                  1991                   1993(
Ld| F.    L   Fql  L  | I                                F,W2!L   IZF.    2 L                           I F,           d |I             Ai        | F p    Lxl
L _ 5ed-                          W3              19.2                13.5                  19.5                7.2       2I73911                  I,693              L62,5.2          1,016.9   36,913.9
I    S.      JA      -h               I         I         I _      I         I         I        |     X5JI          |      69.2                71.9              303.2                  446                    434.11
P1_f.TsA39Ir                                142                17.1               21.3                2.7                   4.7               479.6              671.1                  232.4                  463.71
1. y DV. Ob. PA,                            91.7               MAI               1203                 237.3               260.9             2,359.4            2,037.              1   3122                  1,5.1 I
T_  de T"&                                 49.3               49.                61.6                66 0                125.91
Obm Vhh                                    533                6.4                77.1                970                 32.5                237.6              36. _                1,311.9                  907.7
|-so~ J~m VhjSS                             19.7              22.9   =            2.5                  27.4                34.6                50.2               93.9                  133.3                  513.3
I C             _ hus                        21                 7.5                9.2                  8.1                17.1                24.4               510                    79.9
U. Too.  ML Few.                                                                                        1.0                 1.9                33.1     321       41.1      121.6        42C
U. Caindl o do Vo= =   =                                                          2.5              42.3                    51.4 =
IA . Tm. D.G.V.                                       41.5
Am. GOL do T        _oip                    23.7      20.1     24.4               235           I      37.0                18.7    =         =.1                                                              2M73
|Drf. CarL Sa& Ttoo                                                    _111.6                                                                                    S60                    255.7                  232.6
SZOL T"Msko                                                                                          ~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~307.41  531.7  1,042.            1,2131
lDpw CtrL Tnmho                                                                                           ~~~~~       ~      ~~~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~266.4  726.  461.0  695.6
W  TpI Te_ean                           17.7               192                2F.2                34.9                9D1g                328.1              5740                  5117.9                  719.9
P|s& CM&=                                   4.A                55.9    =           3.6                9.1                 100.21
MD@. n. F        m                        M=        =         =        =         =         =         =4.9 2=3.01
|Dit. F_~ _                                          _    .12D.9                                                                                                 230.9                  94"                  1.312J  _
Mr. B_. y_ _amew                                                                =3.2                                                                            1,261.6               1,411.0                1,721 .
JIDr. Com&,&                                          _        _                                                                                61.4              I09.0                  16.7                   30.1
5718              13.3                  249                     331.6



U0INWIlY OF FUIIJ  WORKS AND coMMUNATONS * BUDGErARY EECUMON
-yseso sadmadm. a,111m OCmans3                                                                          _______
985              31964              197                39                  9        1919                         1991                 1992                   19 WI
La     F1np    L- Fe        p       L        Frps      14 _     Pap       LA       FrPp       L        Fap       LA       Ffp         -4       FPa          LA         Pap
IJm   m    & 1mmv                                                                                                                        23.9               S3.9                jIt3                   5323
D". Remo. Mbs.                            66.6              33.7               23.6               23.5                14:3               93.2             139.4   2=3A                    =            5359
FPhak  Fuadf.                              6.7               93    -            4.1    -           12.1   -           3.30               33.5               2                    42.6
Oqbs. 79.4..                               7A                9.4                73.                3l                  3.91              47.9               04A                   36=
jUt.l  =b                                                                    _         _         _        _       _      _    -    =     -    3     9       39.2    =               4   =A143.2
Dhmdin bTw3m                             376.9             390                417.6              309.2               375.9                1.A             1311A                1,02.7                1,7413
D1ined   Sovid  P3                       4t.7               56t.1                A3.4             310.2             ,327.4             1,197.   2_    A,                      2,181.9                4,710.7
33.p..m .MMt PARJIA"                                                                                                                                                            313.                    Mgo.9
CooNm. LPi gsco                                                                                                                                                                                        343.2
31J32r7rAL37                          41.4  1.464        0    1,53.2        3.3   2,3 .4   3.6  3_-.              0.     9,03       3      12,3.       12.      7,           13.9  166".9              6.0
NUIHWAY 130J3C1
C,_J_bs. Dug.. y Rin|   219.7                               254.3             455.0         | ,15.31               2,565.          |  3,99313            5,755.7               496.92"              3,45
me_o" o   de IaI                                                                                                                   II                                                                  989.2    3,274.9
|N .    _I                                                                                            II 13,4                     |   1,173.9            2,0954               2,333.7                2,063.0
[c-in . rC             v._h.                                                                                                             33.8 I91.0                             3699i.                 975.A       1944
w                  _                1 Dm3.    m,  V3    553.31    69t    235.71    57.1    447.1   231    39.61      m1           T         1T                           IIT
|      n R s    1.. bps                   147.2         |     5.2              2t.6
C        xml. F E. Na.                                       69.1             132.5               216A.              321.4              567.6    73.3      76.I      315.5       555.0      27.3       5t.9        145.2
Rush. -_ CA.                                2.5    24.3       6.2       110.7,
|             -.s  c|mp                                      39.          |    57.6               399.2              1933               522|.  23.6    4465          4tt4      2,95t.7|   4379.5       337.3       424.9
C     ;  lus    um                                                                                                                                         434.4   4.421*
l    Lb  -                               -       Tm -m                                                                              0.9    94.0                                     2 A  374    3.5
V.o1.. Depm. Ca                                                                                                                                                                                    32.
I     V     T.   447                                         59.9              79.5.               979                ODA               129.7            191.       1           237
IamI . 2294m. M..l                                           33.0              72.21              1333
|D_ 2 ToS.  _LmE. A|                      455A   I33J I  642  |3,.73.71 a635   2,319A |4, 3t.5                        71.A
3 Ts _M_   Rom I                                             38t3   1,3.3    21136  3.421    210.13  3_3.9           3t7.7  I3,0.0        2.I
3         Too Ou_m Iag                                                                            3 117.91  *33.3  13,I4.7  3,6731    597| I I*5.7 I         *J|   2.1 



MUINLTRY OF PUBLJC WORKS AND COMMUNICATIONS * BUDGETARY XECUMON
________                 ~~~~~(by swx  of ?     n. ifii G(jqmm.m                                                                            ____
INS          - 1      6                1917                198                  1969                1990 M91                    1               199 2                  IS
LAI      Ft        LcA      Ftp        Le-      Frtp       1A        Ftp        L.| Frg             Ld        Ftp        L     |A  Frp         1-4        Ftf          14         Ftp
R.3 Sam. Rens-Yby-Y.ia                                                                                                                                               2.6       41.4      2,6118      1,759.3    3=.036      10,53.9
Rig. 4 Sm Ipado - PIke                                                                                                                          1,066A              2,761.2                1,539.6                2,132.5        511.9
Rig. 5 Yby Yb YPJ.C      o                  336.3    850.4       12.   .0 2160A,_
Rule 5 PJ.CgbiU .o4        ..o                                                                                                                                                                                     1,799.9
Rut. 5 Cum= F=.=== ====                                                                                                                           234.3               155.3                 3=0.5                  1,7369       .9   5
Rig 5 P e/Acoio Cwmci&                               2325A               1693.3             3,569.1                         1,803.t
Ri 5 cU2Oi9Ap(    CQICtdo                                                                                                                                                                                        2,913.1
Ri    P.MUl Po Colouddo                                                                                                     1,61.0              3,796.4             2,346.9                4,186.3                  123.4
RuL. 6 P-p.                                  117.6    334.9                                                                                                                            _   _       ________
Rum I VM..   .1R..i                                               8.2    IN.7        70.0    370.4       10.0   1.1911       336.5    175.2       409.7    756.1      714.1    1.496.5      339.9
Rig I  Siq.u.c.                                             I                                                                                               -         -                    4.264J8                4,540.0
Rig 9 Truwudoo                                17.6               35.61               33.4
R,A. 9 Mjw I.o.- 14RA                                      I        I                                                            I =                                                       4200=
Rum 9 T , _ Ti... 3                         590.7       = 8       9.71              967.4              1.3311
E|rhF  . RL9 * F1il.&                                                               18.6                 18.5      79.6       15.3    131.9       B63.   4,272.5   2,895J   11,636.7       1,464.2     3,669.1                 1,000.2
cow. 0. -S.        9o 9.6    135_
|N_ilb.TakwwTmdc.                            38.4                77.5                54.9
A *Fo a F= =de=                                                                              =          531S.               1,521.5             1,210.4               105.7     _
Az_oa Pmi  EamnuckI   sead                                       10.0                                   104.4                402.1        *        36.                 64.5
AINo N== LA=     =7 72.7 ===
|R 8  . Ri.. bo                                        45J                 49.2      59.61 60   .        66.6 
EI   _  AM . FlduBipo                        179.6              2120                269.5                1800C               3609                 321.4               3491
Pau-  Ru sag                                                                         13.4                15.2                 15.1                                   -                                  -
Aft          9_W ag                           26.9               24.7               340.6                62.3                 74.4
A. Awaio SAma_                                        _                                                  51J                  09.2_
A.yzo_ de& SE_                                                                                                                                  1,096.6             3,576.0               23,42,5     1310.0A  23,06.0    40,634.9
M       . Phi AWrknj                           5.4               10.5                15.3                          .
4 b14-b.                                                                                                                                                                                                 163.4
4 Majamse.ItM.9                                                                                                                                                                                          129.2
r       h_                                              ==_                                             =         =          ==                                                             =l  



MISTY OF KULIC WORKS AND OMMUNICATIONS - BUDGErARY EECUTON
|_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(y,                      Of   &uac g.  tmilian  Oud&  _s)
19_ 5            15 6          _    87               ISS               19B9                1990              1991      |         1992         |        993
L4      Ftp      Ld      Ftp       L4      Frp       L4      Ftp       L4       Ftpm  |    4      Fp         4    I  Ftp        Ldi        Ftp        Ld4        FM&
Lo . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           7~~~~~~~~~~~~6.7
|Rmuo Ru.. 6                                                                                                                                                                         262.II      | J7
Rampao Rus OECF                                                                                                                                      15__                  2.1                  =
SUWIWB AL                2,9.1  3234   2,3J   7,1454   3,58.  U.21"            4A9.4    5891   12.337S  4,464   16,11.7  6,35I  23,04L. 1 ,388.9    521772    34,m36    53.966.1    UOAZJ
IGCHWAY MAINIANcZ                     1047.4            1_8.             1__                2,132.9           3,945.8            7,610.5          12,3A                11,112.2             15,2$2.
SUDYOTAL                 1,07.4       to  1 .          Le   1.622        Lo,  2,           Le 80   3,56.     LI    7410S.       0.4  12A0A         8A    UAW              Le   is.6            Lo
AG'6Gin
[inu. Elsauo                            13.9             19A               30.0              37.5               26.2              41.9             116.7                147.4                210.1
Fwvil C. Amio Laps 4.                                    514A              673.0             76A               1,132.0           1,5763         | 2553=3                3.9233               5.67S.9
Mau-m Mm                                  50               5.5               6.2               6.2                5.0               17A             104.3                36
IFI^_                                          _                                                              6,44.41                                                    263                   305.2
EsmsNwAsh del 1iodI                                                                                                                                                    34.1
StITarAL                   403              539.1      Le    79.2        LO     3117       8     857A        LO    1.90         LO   346           LO    4,9              8.0   6,1S.2         Le0
GRAND TUrAL                    _       _ _A  J         7,1415A      7,     2       9_       S        2A1 4,N"               3s1   , 3 |    |         19MS        343231 3M1.  llS".21  Il A                       Ull
YEARLY GRAND TUFAL (G/a,              101.44            12,75.2          183               152346            32365A4            41,40S-            71,457.0            179.413J       |      29.357
US lDobw F ap Ra                           307               339              55                5,6                                                    1.3                  1,0                   I'm
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~ GR Nl)A(lIX.1            l.1     1D       D         39        .|      tJ       @|       ^1       4         2S.51    51      331247               95.9         3.      1J|
GNDTMFAL 0                    ~                ]93~~.    jI~ 1j7A  ]l 7 I
|  YEARLY GRAND T      i=AL = )         333        |      37.9             343               27.7               30.6              33.7               54.0                119.                  167.1
(9   t     s. 1Ay bW hs   a-           fr 34 _  c4  _ _
NM      1892 m  193 _bi. upM  Oi        dus
8.w          _isI Emsal   Mecy    d cPAb Wed,   I       _ln  of F _m
Rafs: _oI M u_q F_ _bmm   FI bash
Ougobw 196



-54 -                           Table 2.4
E    _i }i           i 
I         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ItR 
*            ~~~~~IR
liii'!         3        i     E  
_I ij                                   I   s 



TAX COLLECTED FROM ROAD USERS
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     80-90     85-90
AVRG    AVRG
(current Guaranies millions)
Direct Taxes            1,943    2,044    2,912    5,436    9,018   15,145   18,258   23,991   29,026   35,506   55,318    18,054    29,541
Indirect Taxes            973     1,123     867    1,468    2,634    2,597    3,561    3,909    4,654    5,379    6,873        3,094     4,496
Sub Total               2,916    3,167    3,779    6,904    11,652   17,742   21,819    27,900   33,680   40,885   62,191    21,149    34,036
MunicipalTaxes            439      580      775       738      783      803      84      1,578    2,278    2,111    2,868      1,258     1,754
Total                  3,355    3,747    4,554    7,642   12,435   18,545   22,703    29,478   35,958   42,996   65,059    22,407    35,790
(miions of 1990 Guaranies)
Direct Taxes           18,849   17,055   23,134   37,749   49,305   66,143   60,612   61,085   59,123   55,057   55,318    45,766    59,556
Indirect Taxes         12,531   12,463    9,980    13,284   17,489   13,605   12,445    10,577   10,104    9,999    7,903    11,853    10,773
Sub Toal               31,380   29,518   33,114   51,033    66,794   79,748   73,057    71,662   69,227   65,056   63,226    57,620    70,329
Municipal Taxes         4,263    4,839    6,160    5,128    4,280    3,508    2,933    4,019    4,641    3,273    2,868        4,174     3,540
Total                 35,643   34,357   39,274   56,161   71,074   83,256   75,990   75,681   73,868   68,329   66,094    61,793    73,870
(million of 1990 USS)
Direct Taxes             15.7     14.2      19.3     31.5     41.1     55.1      50.5     50.9     49.3      45.9     46.1     38.15     49.63
IndirectTaxes            10.4     10.4       8.3     11.1     14.6      11.3     10.4      8.8      8.4      8.3       6.6      9.87      8.97
Sub Total                26.1     24.6      27.6     42.6     55.7     66.4      60.9     59.7     57.7      54.2     52.7     48.02     58.60
Municipal Taxes           3.6       .4       5.1      4.3      3.6      2.9       2.4      3.3      3.9      2.7       2.4      3.47      2.93
TOl                     29.7     28.6      32.7     46.9     59.3     69.3     63.3      63.0    61.6      56.9      55.1     51.49    61.53
Dirt txes ae  osen o psoline, oil, habicants, repair and tois.
Indiract tae an   s on vehicle inpontion, iwunnr   tuxe, and dw taxes in LaNs 449/67 and 468/174.
Muicip  taxes ae vehicle tegiitioo and odher fes coLlected by ucipaliies.
SOURCE: SAE-CONTEC, EFudio de In Fsincion y Recoleccin de Fona  pare Caure, 1991
July 1992



- 56 -           Table 2.6
---El              _ m   ni  nnmnnn0ii
X 17 1BT T s RTT ^ 1  FIUl-I i rlT   1
01g FA        jS
,      I t152!15 XCMe?T
i 6 Ls S M vm v | t S 1 S ^1 1 1 XI Trl 4 r C m~
-I  -|!| |-                   _ B ! _ ;   ; 5 i ! + - 
WiX~~~~~ VP2 i2    fl--



1          |941                 1             t I a        TaTAL  LOM  ErMTaAL )LOM   EXL TUBAL LOC                                                                 TGTAL
MOPC tPOJRCIU
Com      dc     . oRom b an 3Mg5T I,us                                         3.35       1l1.92               1 1,96          12,201                 12,2)1    12,445                 12,445      12,64                   12,64
Comwmuxdm    * Msbiem of Krz.Rds.                       1,217                  1,217             ________
O     Mw P,_                                           3,190                  3,190       s,7a                     5,700       6,                     6,40      8,3g                   tt /J       9,850                   9,5
AUMul.ASmp  (0 KA)                                      5,009  1___            509___
CininPd"o   Pm. CoIido                                  3,619                  3,6               __=                                                             =          _==                         
S.JP.d    . ip1h  tuo  2I                                  9                   2,97      _
RrIRde.aCz1. inC20 ep                                       3                    203                                                                                                           _ _
RrI.PAP. in Rz1Jdthmmu                                    192                    182
Mhom4sho del omnizi_                                                                        _
SiEh nkoftmmhio (92 kmn)
SUBTOTAL                           24,972           4     2A.lfl      17,662           a       17,662      19,041                 19,041   23,633                  20,653      n,344                   =,544
TOAL 1NVXSTSWE  W3OJKc1U                             0,363      139,9M    269.25        5,         173.411     246,0        44,173    169,1        246,34     0.09       10,80      22A69       46.M        10,5        2MS
Hlawuy  M                                              19,409                 19,400      20,000                   26,000      26,00  _____            6,0      26,OW                  26,00      26,0                     2,0
TOTAL HIGHWAY KInNDFrUK                                5,793      139,9M     ZZ,6U        91,        175,4111    26,0          ",11    102,10        272,341    09,5       1,6          .42        986        101         2,3635
TOTAL 19941 US$mllk  (0 U531 -GI.2)0                 44.4       70.01      114.3        43.3        37.71       133.21      45.11      91.11       136.2      45.01      32.3       127.*       46*I         71.6       117.6
SaAm. MOPC, fiDinie. of 1Egl..
Oaakm 1093



Table 2.7
ROAD TRANSPORT  OPNE
(1991)
No. of         No. of
Compnies        Vehicles
Domestic Psenger Srvice
Reular                                         139            1,627
Tourism                                         51               76
Dedicated Service                               IS               23
Odhers                                          87               96
International PaMeCgerr Svice
OfFargusyanorigin                                1              135
Of foreign orgin                                14              138
Dometic Freight Service
For hire companies                              a a          25,000'
Own account heulbrc                               a             Ia 
International Freight Service
Of Paraguayan origin                            41              9SS
Of forein origin                                72            1,576
I/ Esimate
Source: MOPC, Planin Ofce
July IM



- 59 -
Table 3.1
CUATRO MOJONES TO Rt. 9 TRAFFIC AT MAIN INTERSECTIONS
(Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADI) - Vehiclcs per day (vpd))
Intersecting Road                South Side           North Side           West Side           East Side
Ave. Fernando de Is Mora                      10,692               18,019              24,217              15,502
Ave. Eusebio Ayala                            13,850               10,768              27,573              32,639
Ave. Mariacal Lopez                           7,236                7,708               22,181              20,819
Ave. Santa Terea                              8,039                11,397               8,139               6,561
Ave. Aviadores del Chaco                      8,905                9,669               18,334              18,838
Route 9 (Trmnachaco)                          7,318                 -                  12,091              15,927
Source: Conoultmnt's Report
October 1992



- 60 -
Table 3.2
ROAD IMPROVEMENTS COST SUMMARY
(estimated 1994 USS)
Iteme                 Description           Paraguari-     Ita-Cuatro   Cuatro Mojo-    ULnpio -
Ita        Mojones        nes- Rt.9     Emboscada
Roadworks         Earthworks, Pavement, Drainage,   3,307,000    15,440,000      14,733,000    5,756,000
Signs and Mobilization
Bridges           Structures and Approaches                       2,986,000       5,460,000     452,000
Total Roadworks                                     3,307,000    18,426,000      21,193,000    6,208,000
Stormwater Drainage Canals                                                        5,750,000
Total Base Cosu                                     3,307,000    18,426,000      26,943,000    6,208,000
Land Acquisition                                                    575,000       3,850,000     178,000
Supervision                                          218,000      1,216,000       1,778,000     410,000
Qtty. Contingcs.                                     331,000      1,843,000       2,695,000     621,000
GRAND TOTAL                                         3,856,000    22,060,000      35,266,000    7,417,000
CIVIL WORKS INVESTMENT SCHEDULE
(millions at 1994 prices)
1994       1995        1996        1997        1998        TOTAL
(USS)                               _
Paraguarf - Iti                          0.97        0.97        0.96        0.96          3.86
Iti - 4 Mojones               0.57       5.38        5.38        5.38        5.35         22.09
4 Mojones - Rl.9              3.85       7.86        7.86        7.85        7.85         35.27
Li|npio - Emboscada           0.18        1.82       1.82        1.82         1.78         7.42
Resurfacing Rt.6                         2.18        2.18        2.18        0.56          7.10
Stabilization Program                    1.20                                              1.20
TOTAL                 4.60       19.41       18.21       18.19       16.50        76.94
(0/. a USSI=G/.2,000)
Paraguarf - Iti                          ,940       1,940       1,920        1,920        7,720
|Id - 4 Mojones              1,140      10,760     10,760      10,760       10,700       44,120
4 Mojones - Rt.9             7,700      15,720     15,720       15,700      15,700       70,540
Limpio - Emboscada            360       3,640       3,640       3,640       3,560        14,840
Resurfacing Rt.6                        4,360       4,360       4,360        1,120       14,200
Stabilization Program                   2,400                                             2,400
TOTAL                9,200      38,820      36,420      36,380      33,000       153,820
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Communications
September 1993



CIVIL WORI SCREDUKI
(1994 Ouuris .MiE 0 US$l - C/.2,000)
199                           1995                             Ion0                             1997                             193                              TOW
L--    Ew.    To           I.-   I     w.        TOW        L-&        am         TOW        LA.   - L-            TOW        Lw-   |      L        Tod        LA|.    | w.           Tod
Pwa.sui4kA                                      4W       1.410        1.96       46        1,4W        1,96       4f        1,4t       1.93        460        1,4W      193D       1,4         5,3        7,73
ki-4Mej           1,140             1,141     2,4        3,          1%0,      2.56          ,        10.70     2,540      3          10,7W0      2,5        3,130     10,-7      113m0       32,4       44.14I
G&m-3Lg           7,       7 1   7,73         3,7       12,OM        15.72     3,7W        12,0      15,7A      3,7       12,M0       15,13      3,7M       12,0       15,70      250         410M       23.50
Luqiv e            30                30         3        2,70        36          3W        2,70       34"         M        2,7W        3,60        3         2,730      3,56       3,30       11,0W I13 100
RdSmf  _nA                                    I.=        3,=         4,3       1,          3,0        4,M       ID        3,D         430         230         s6        1,120    3_5         l.=         14,30
3~~~.Pmgm                           0W~~~~~~~N  I,9      2.4W                                                                                                           93         l,3        2,60
Toml              , 0             9,X0      9,20       W,M          ,93      3,O 7,06                                    27,70      30n,3       7,0        25_=      3,0        4e5        Il_.=       153_
-   -   =   -   -    -    *   .    -     -  -   -    -    *   *   -    =    -    -     -  =     -    =    -  =    =     -    -     -     -          =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<
W9



HWUMLEMBTno  S8COtLE
Its - Cmato ljSmsm, 
L bmo - Emodsn                 :     :               :        :j  
Ru.uwfu Rt6                                                                                                                         II 
StabOli hMbft
ODNSuL1nNG SERVIRS
SupmnWI o Road 1m1immu  Waft
SupstwJ k0dltaU                              .11Pr 
D.lp Rt.6 RA6ZkIS8
DoaJp haprnm of .Y-Iyd Lam.bwe Qe&bS
AssodamTrapmt MaszwTMm
MOPCUMSevlocAms.e taneie
ANK SUERVISINMuIUONa
Land AcqMaior2 Res.lMg  eole Tendstfrg Bkdn and Caioidhg Time                       CortMCt E2,aCsOn Period
H
w*
I-'



- 63 -
TABLB 3.5
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OP DISBURSEMENTS
(million US Dolbars)
By the End of Fiscal Year
Annual                      Cumulative                    Pcenta
1994                          0.0                           0.0                            0
1995                          10.0                         10.0                           IS
1996                          16.4                         26.4                           41
1997                          16.0                         42.4                           65
1998                          15.3                         57.7                           89
1999                          7.3                          65.0                           100
AswmqKiona:                Lon Signing:                January, 1994
LAn effectivenes:          March, 1994
Project Completion:        Decemiber, 1998
Loan Closn Date:           June, 1999
October 1993



- 64-
Table 4.1
PARAUAR - ffA
Averp Daily Traffic with Project
,b&Ysua^ &                                           Yamr6p  taram sction
Xm        liLxht vehoil         Ebus       In a         lad          LightvehicleM          b s     I n b         rag
0               1513            461         742         2716             1185            370          532        2087
1               1622            483        733         2623              1270            363         561         2219
2               1739            506         326         3071             1362            406          592        2360
3               1664            531         871         3266             1460            426          625        2510
4               1998            556         919         3473             1565            446          659        2670
5               2142            533         970         3695             1673            468          695        2841
6               2296            611        1023         3930             1798            490          734        3022
7               2469            640        1079         4131             1928            514          774        3216
8               2639            671        1139         4448             2067            538          316        3422
9               2829            703        1201         4733             2215            564          361        3641
10              3052            737         1267        5037             2375             591         909        3875
11              3251            772         1337        5360             2546             620         959        4124
12              3485             309        1411        570S             2729             649         1011       4390
13              3736            648         1488        6072             2926             681        1067        4674
14              4005            389         1570        6464             3137             713         1126       4976
IS              4293            931         1656        6881             3362             748         1198       5293
16              4602             976        1748        7326             3604             7U3         1253       5641
17              4933            1023        1344        7300             3864             621         1322       6007
IS              5289            1072        1945        U306             4142            860         1395        6397
19              5669            1123       2052         S345             4440            902         1471        6813
20              6078            1177        2165        9420             4760            945         1552         7257
21              6515            1234        2234        10033            5103            990         1633         7731
22              6934            1293        2410        10687            5470            1033        1728         8236
23              7497            1355        2542        11335            5864            1088        1323         8774
Source: SAE-CONTEC
Jluy 1992



PARAGUARI - ITA
Cost-Benefit Streams With and Without Value of rime
Paraguari - Yaguar6n Section                                                 Yagusr6n - Iti Section
Benefits                   Net Benefits                                   Benefits                    Net Benefits
Coast.     Without       With          Without          With               Const.     Without       With          Without          With
Year         Coda        V.T.         V.T.           V.T.            V.T.               Costs      V.T.          V.T.           V.T.            V.T.
0        1154          0              0           -114           -1154             769           0              0            -769           -769
1       1732           0              0           -1732          -1732             1154           0             0            -1154          -1154
2                     26            166              26             166                           7            129              7             129
3                     28            173              28             173                           8            132               a            132
4                     27            197              27             197                           a            136              S              136
5                     29            206              29            206                            2            170              2             170
6                     31            214              31             214                           2            175              2             175
7                     32            223              32            223                            2            179              2             179
8                     34            232              34            232                            7            223              7             223
9                     37            271              37             271                           7            227              7             227
10                     39           282              39             282                            7           231               7             231
11         13          41            292             28             279               30           5           277              25             247
12                     43           302               43            302                            4           281               4             281
13                     33           377              33             377                           20           346              20             346
14                     34           339              34             389                           19           350              19             350
15                     35           401              35             401                           24           403              24             403
16                     19            497              19            497                           22           404              22             404
17                     19           511               19            511                           52           477              52             477
1                     19            523              19            523                           50           473              50             473
19                     27            630              27            630                           65           521              65             521                n
20       -862          28            642             390            1504            -575          S1            570            656            1145
ERR - -4.2% without value of time                                                     ERR - -4.4% widoaut value of time
ERR= 7.9%withvalueoftime                                                              ERR = 10.3% with value of time
Source: Updated SAE-CONTEC Report
April 1993



-66 -
Table 4.3
ITA - CUATRO MOJONES
Traffic Estinutes With and Without the Proiect
Without Project                   Section                  Cars       Buaea      Trucks       Total
via Rt. I                 Fdo. de Ia Mora-San Lorenzo          10500       3000       1500        15000
San Lorenzo-Ybyru                    6444       2118       1432          9994
Ybymr6-Acc.Guamrmbar6                2141        822       1000          3963
Acc.Guramnbar6-Acc.N.1td             ISS0        561        965          3406
Acc.N.Ih-Acc.S.ltd                   1750        513        873          3141
Cuatro Mojones-Ita        Cuatro Mojonea-Tres Bocas             8890       1707       1260        11357
Tres Boca4frnemby                    3423       1339        955          5717
Remnby-Ypane                         1442        667        374          24S3
Ypand-Acc.Villeta                     736         34        493          1263
Acc.Villeta-Guarambard                530        194        332          1056
Guamrmbard-lid                        550        275        374          1199
With Project
via Rt. I                 Fdo. de Ia Mora-San Lorenzo           8974       2224       1018        12216
San Lorenzo-Ybyraro                  4899       1342        930          7171
Ybyrar6-Guammbare                     596        278        498          1372
Guartnibard-Acc.N.Iti                 359        278        540          1177
Acc.N.Itf-Acc.S.ItI                   229        278        448           955
South Acceu to Asunci6n    Cuatro Mojones-Acc.N.Remby           7566       2274       14S8        11328
Acc.N.fNemby-Itororo                 2716       1362        778         4856
Itororo-Acc.S.Ypane                  2012        889        808          3709
Acc.S.Ypand-Acc.Guarmbare            1663        847        598          3108
Acc.Guamnbar6-Ita                    1383        608        424         2415
Itororo-Ypan6                        1226        567        317         2120
Ypan&Acc.S.Ypand                      367         17        245           629
Acc.S.Ypane-Acc.Villeta               395         39        317           751
Guaranmbar-Acc.Guarambare             526        443        265          1234
Acc.Guorarnbari-Acc.Villeta           236         75         93           404
Acc.Nniiemby-Reonby                  2270        805        655         3730
Remby-Cia.lRemby                      308        275         87           670
Guammbare-Ita                         496        111        297           904
Source: SAE-CONTEC
June 1991



1TA - CUATRO MOJONES
Economic Coda with and wiout the project
(billion Guaranie)
ALT 0                                                           ALT I
Section            Conr. &    Main-   Vehicle        rtme       Toal               Consr. &     Main-   Vehicle       rune       Toal eco-
inyrov.     tennce  Opeting    costs         economic          improv.      ten-     operating    coft       nomic cost
coda        cost     costs                  codas               co           ance    costs
cod$
F. Mom-SanLonzo                   0          .347     216.654     57.009      274.010              0         .327      132.813     49.393      232.533
San Lorenzo-Ybyraro               0          .266     566.53     139.309     892.S57              0         .210      397.775    100.364      591.140
Ybyraro-Acc.Guauaeare             0          .079     105.240     21.450      130.548              0         .059       39.967     71.221        47.247
Acc.Guarambare-Acc.N.ha           0          .053     206.437      3S.557     249.S97              0         .136       83.147      12.031      96.315
Acc.N.ha-AccS.ltc                 0          .053      62.893      11.S4S      30.381              0         .043       23.022      3.739        26.304
Cuato Mqonoa-Acc.N.Nenby          0          .487     393.355     100.770     591.193            3.575       .107      171.330     46.402       231.922
Acc.N. Nembfy-loo                 0          .054      49.938      12.649      71.422            3.850       .111       93.279     24.330       120.600
hororo-Acc.S.Yp_w                 0          .062      57.102      14.469      71.673            2.200       .060       76.671      17.510       95.912
Acc.S.Ypane-Acc.N.Ypane           0          .214      52.612      6.858       59.674            3.025       .079       79.613      19.299      101.178
Acc.N.Ypa-Acc.S.lpcne             0          .228      40.241      7.640       4S.115            7.425       .0S9      285.S73      3.966       299.500
Acc.S.Ypane-ha                    0          .245      47.729      9.429       57.404            7.425       .240      209.041     51.110       266.500
TOWal proect component            0         2.548    2,020.939    477.002    2,500.489           27.500     2.420     1,944.011    113.353    2,035.500
ERR - 14.3%
Source: Updated SAE-CONTEC Report
April 1993



- 68 -
Table 4.5
CUATRO MOJONES - ROUTE 9
Averap Daily Tafic With and Without the Project
Without Project                                 With Project
Scstion           uree T                h          mclka   11                CM U               Truckr To te
1. Cuatro                0          12454      3774       2642     18870           12454      3774       2642      18870
Mojoncr-               3          14484      4229       2989    21702            15024      4582       3210      22817
Mercado                S          18588      5087       3658    37333            19358      5575       3962      28894
Abuto                 13          23614      6001       4403    34017            24940      6781       4889      36611
18          28625      6685      4971     40281           32130      8244       6032      46406
22          34749      6592       5823     47164          39350      8242        7138     54731
2. Mercado               0           13730      3582      2587      19899          13730      3582       2587      19899
Abastoe-               3          15377      3825       2758     21961           17272      4740       3349      25360
Av. Ayala              a          18919      4216       3140    26275            72254      5766       4133      32153
13          10266      2833       1965     15064          10870      3173       2154      16197
IS          13154      3385      2392      18931          14006      3860       2659      20525
22          15824      3817       2745     22387           17154      4515       3147     24816
3. Av. Ayala-            0           5318       1718      1145      8I18            5318      1718        1145      8I18
Mca. Lopez            3           6191       1931      1299      9421            6547      2143       1414      10105
8           7976      2344       1600     11919           8436      2608        1745     12789
13          10266      2833      1965      15064          10870      3173       2154      16197
1s          13154      3385      2392      18931          14006      3860       2659      20525
22          15824      3817       2745    22387            17154      4515       3147     24816
4. Mcal. Lopez-          0           5125       1337       966      7423            5125      1337        966       7428
Ste. Terer             3           5967       1503      1096      8566            6313      1668       1195       9176
8     ,    7687       1826       1351     10864           8134      2030        1475     11639
13           9900      2212      1662      13775          10481      2470        1820     14771
iS          12723      2661      2034      17413          13504      3005       2247      18756
22          15444      3042       2362    20848            16540     3515        2659     22713
S. Ste. Teresa -         0           7341       1678      1468     10487            7341      1678       1468      10487
Aviadores del          3           3544       1884      1663     12091            8977      2077       1803      12857
Chaco                  a          10992      2276       2042     15310           11566      2527       2225      16319
13          14069      2715      2483      19267          14903      3075       2747      20724
IS          17314      3092      2841     23248           19202      3741       3390      26333
22          20119      3303       3139    26561           23517      4376        4012     31905
6. Avisdore              0           6713       1379      1104      9196            6713      1379       1104       9196
del Chaco-             3           7815       1550      1252     10617            8196      1701       1352      11249
Rt. 9                  a          10064       IS1O      1542     13486           10560      2070       1668      14298
13          12942      2269      1392    17104            13606      2518       2059      18184
I1          16541      2701      2296     21537           17531      3064       2542      23137
22          19429      2985      2536    24950            21472      3584        3008     28064



- 69 -
Table 4.6
CUATRO MOJONES - ROUTE 9
Coat and Benefits with and without value of tirn
(million 1992 Guaranies)
Year         Cost                   Benefits                          Net Benefits
Without          With              Wsiout          With
value of time  value of rims       valu, of time    value of tin.
0        13,400             0               0                -13,400       -13,400
1       11,500              0               0                -11,500       -11,500
2        11,500             0               0                -11,500       -11.500
3        7,500              0               0                -7,500        -7,500
4                        10,667          13,553               10,667        13,553
5                        12,250          15,494               12,250        15,494
6                        12,792          16,437               12,792        16,437
7                        13,346          17,414               13,346        17,414
S                        14,198          18,917               14,198        18,917
9                        15,648          21,481               15,648        21,481
10                       17,305          24,409               17,305        24,409
11                       18,132          25,728               18,132        25,728
12                       18,912          26,955               18,912        26,955
13                       19,750          28,292               19,750        28,292
14         991           20,658          29,766               19,667        28,775
15                       21,655          31,408               21,65S        31,408
16                       22,767          33,268               22,767        33,268
17                       24,001          35,368               24,001        35,368
IS                       25,452          37,862               25,452        37,862
19                       28,384          42,566               28,S84        42,566
20       16,300          29,940          44,217               46,740        61,017
ERRS 22.6    ERRS 27.4
Soume: Updated FORAGRO-PARELC Report
April 1993



- 70-
Tabl. 4.7
CUATRO MOJONES - ROUTE 9
Storm Drainag Component, Cod/Benefit Streams
(million 1992 Guaranies)
Year      Constuction Coda        Benefits         Net Benefits
0             4,170                -               -4,170
1             4,170                -               - 4,170
2                                2,136               2,136
3-1S                               2,136              2,136
ERR% 22.4
Source: Updated FORAGRO - PARELC Report
April 1993



- 71 -
Table 4.1
LIMPIO - EMBOSCADA
Average daily traffic with and without the project
(number of vehicles)
Without Project                                           With Project
1w         5l           am         TOc           ToImsa                                       Ii E c  Truc   i2W
1         265          75          307          647                 421          124          584         1129
2         214          71          323           6S5                 452         129          614         1195
3         305          12          340           727                 485         135          646         1886
4         327          SS          357           769                520          141          680         1341
5         351          89          376          816                 55S          147          715         1420
6         377          93          395           865                 599         154          752         1505
7         404          97          416           917                 643         161          791         1595
8         434          101         438           973                 689         168          832         1689
9         466          106         460          1032                 740         175          876         1791
10         500         111         484          1095                 794         103          921          1898
11         536         115         510           1161                852          191         969         2012
12         575         120         536           1231                914          199         1019        2132
13         617         126          564          1307                981         208          1072         2261
14         662         131          593          1386                1052        217          1128         2397
15         711         137         624           1472                1129        227          1187         2543
16         762         143         656           1561               1211         237          1249         2697
17         11i         149         690           1657                1300        250          1314        2864
18         178         156         726           1760               1395         258          1382        3035
19         942         163         765           1870                1497        269          1454        3220
20         1011        170          804          1985                1606         281         1529         3416
Source: SAE-CONTEC
June 1992



- 72 -
Tabb 4.9
LIMPIO - EMBOSCADA
Net Economic Benefits with and withoa Value of rume
(1992 Guaranies billion)
Savings in               Savings in               Total Economic Benefits
Increase in    exising   Generated    Existing    Generated
Increa in     Road       vehicle      Vehicle     Vehicle      Vehicle     Without
Road Capi-   Recurrent    operating  Operating     Travel    Trovel Tr,m   TaveJl rus   Wit TxM-
Year    tal Cost      Cost         cosd       Benefits    Tine cost    Benefits                vel rTm
0       2.000       .000          .000        .000        .000        .000        -2.000      -2.000
1       2.700       .000         .000        .000         .000        .000        -2.700      -2.700
2       2.700       .000          .000        .000        .000        .000        -2.700      -2.700
3       1.S00       .000          .000       .000         .000        .000        -1.S00      -1.S00
4        .000      -.005          .75S        .061        .092        .016          .916       .932
5        .000      -.005          .804       .066         .098        .017          .973       .990
6        .000      -.005          .S53        .070        .104        .01         1.033       1.051
7        .000      -.005         .906        .075         .111        .019         1.093       1.117
I        .000      -.005         .961        .081         .118        .021         1.165       1.136
9        .000      -.005         1.020        .0S7        .126        .022         1.238       1.260
10       .000       -.005        1.0S3        .093         .134        .024         1.315      1.339
11       .000       -.005        1.149        .100         .143        .026         1.397      1.423
12       .000       -.005        1.220        .107         .153        .028         1.4S4      1.512
13       .000       .036         1.294        .115         .163        .030         1.535      1.565
14       1.277      -.005        1.3S6        .124         .175        .032          .414       .446
15       .000       -.005        1.528        .139         .195        .036         1.866      1.902
16       .000       -.005        1.670        .154         .215        .040        2.043       2.0S3
17       .000       -.005        1.823        .170         .236        .044        2.233       2.277
1i       .000       -.005        1.9S7        .1S        .259         .048        2.439       2.487
19       .000       -.005        2.163        .207         .254        .053        2.659       2.712
20      -2.765      -.005        2.351         .227        .312        .059        5.660       5.710
ERR -10.6% ERR - 10.3%
Source: Updated SAE-CONTEC Report
April 1993



- 73 -
ANNEX 1
PARAGUAY
EIGHT HIGHWAY PROJECT
External Assistance to the Highway Sub-sector
1.    In addition to the Bank, the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB), the Japanese
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) and the US Federal Highway Administra-
tion (FHWA) are providing MOPC, principally DH, technical assistance and other
support to strengthen their capacity.
2.    IDB's loan 829/SF-PR includes about US$ 1.5 million to finance consulting
services to prepare a medium- to long-term National Road Maintenance'4 Plan'5. This
Plan would includes development of a road and equipment maintenance management
system. Over 90 man-months, in a period of 2-3 years would be applied to develop it.
Terms of reference to prepare the Plan, taken from IDB's project report are in the project
file (document G41712). The TORs were reviewed by Bank staff and found to be some-
what outmoded in that they aim at setting up a force-account capability including its cor-
responding management systems and organization, instead of helping to prepare MOPC
for the use of contract maintenance.
3.    DH went already once through this exercise in the early 1970s, under the Bank's
Fourth Highway Project. Roy Jorgenson Inc. (RhI) provided seven years of intense
technical assistance for the purpose but, none of the systems that were put in place at the
time, none of the planning that was done, and none of the staff that were trained have
survived. The claim is that the RJI planning/programming system was too complex, un-
wieldy, lacked transparency, and was difficult to sustain. Yet, with some modifications
and simplification, it has survived and succeeded at the Highways Departments of the
states of Parana, Minas Gerais and a few others in Brazil. Parana, the Brazilian border-
state to Paraguay, is one of the more successful RJI projects. Progress under the IDB
assistance is slow.
4.    Other studies included under IDB's technical assistance are mostly follow-up and
elaboration of studies and work initiated by consultants to MOPC's Planning Office
(OCPIT at the time, OPIT now), commenced under the Bank's earlier projects including
the Seventh Highway Project (Loan 2140-PA). They include (i) extending and fine-tun-
ing accident data collection, (ii) computerizing the rolling four-year National Transport
Plan and monitoring its implementation, (iii) updating vehicle operating costs, (iv) follow-
up on user charge collection and how highway infrastructure costs are financed, (v) ana-
lyzing energy consumption in the transport sector, and (vi) training OPIT staff in the use
of personal computers.
14/   The term maintenance is defined as encompassing rehabilitation, reconstruction
and improvement, as well as routine maintenance tasks.
15t   Also included are other studies and assistance to MOPC's transport planning
office OPIT.



- 74 -
5.    MOPC is also the executing agency for two IDB rural roads projects: the Rural
Roads in Rural Colonies program, which just started (1993) and would extend until 1996;
and the National Rural Roads program, which was just approved and signed, and which
would extend until 1997.
6.    The OECF is engaged in financing a sizeable equipment replacement program for
MOPC. The program finances about US$ 34.4 million worth of equipment and the fuel
and lubricants to operate it for three years. A sizeable (3-year, 150 man-months) tech-
nical assistance program to train operators and mechanical staff in the use and repair of
the equipment is also included. This program grew out of a Bank financed study on
equipment renewal and maintenance needs, carried out under the Seventh Highway Pro-
ject and completed in December 1985. The equipment was becoming dated at the time,
and much of it needed intensive maintenance, and eventual replacement. The study also
reviewed and made many recommendations on the operation and management of the San
Lorenzo central workshop. The recommendations of the study were never implemented:
the management and operations recommendations for the San Lorenzo workshop were
forgotten, the equipment was not maintained as intensively as needed or replaced in time
and, thus, equipment availability became a serious problems first, and eventually a crisis.
Lack of equipment is now blamed as a contributing factor for the breakdown and eventual
abandonment of RJI maintenance system. Since the study was done, DH's maintenance
districts have become totally ineffectual, and control over the San Lorenzo central work-
shop has been transferred from the DH in the Undersecretariat of Public Works, to the
Undersecretariat of Administration and Finance.
7.    The road maintenance needs identified in the study formed the basis for a 264 km
road rehabilitation program for which OECF financing was eventually requested. The
works were to have been executed between 1988 and 1990 but delays in making the
OECF loan effective have held up commencement of the works. The first few rehabilita-
tion lots are only now being contracted.
8.    Since resuming operations in Paraguay in 1989, the Bank has principally support-
ed modernization of MOPC, in close cooperation with the IDB and OECF, both of whom
stayed in Paraguay all along. For instance, with funds of the Seventh Project computers
and software were procured to bring up to date DH's Planning and Programming Depart-
ment, and its Control and Evaluation Department. A cooperation agreement with the US
Federal Highways Administration was promoted that would give MOPC access to a wide
range of highway engineering design, planning, and control software. MOPC staff need
training in the use of these computer assisted engineering techniques; providing some of
the training is being pursued by MOPC with the US-FHWA.
9.    As computers have come into more frequent use at MOPC, the Bank has promot-
ed the utilization of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model developed in the Bank.
MOPC staff and consultants hired to prepare the proposed project, were trained in using
the program and prompted to use it. A basic capability now exists at DH. Use of the
model, coupled with the formation of a Pavement Evaluation Unit (UTEP) to assess
pavement condition, has considerably facilitated assessing road rehabilitation needs,
especially the consideration of alternative maintenance options. The Unit has identified
and evaluated another 500 km for rehabilitation. These 500 km of deferred maintenance
needs have been accumulating pending initiation of the works under the OECF loan.
Additional rehabilitation is proposed to be financed with an IDB loan.
10.   A recent computer acquisition under the Seventh Highway Project was intended
to make available PCs at each of the five maintenance districts, so that maintenance plan-



- 75 -
ning and control, and workshop management, inventory and cost control systems could
be brought into use there. However, the computers have not been distributed because
it has been difficult to find and train the staff necessary to operate the computers. Suppli-
ers of standard, off-the-shelve software packages have been training MOPC staff on the
use of their packages and it is expected that the people trained would then be able to
adapt the packages for the specific uses necessary in the districts.
11.   Under the Seventh Project, the Bank financed the purchase of traffic counting
equipment, to replace older, no longer serviceable models. The equipment would be
installed soon and the traffic data collection program is expected to be re-initiated
promptly as installation is ready.
12.   A Special Commission suggested by FHWA to be formed to study how to im-
prove vehicle weight and axle load controls, was created with support of an IDB/UNDP
cooperative program. One of the recommendations of the Commission was to purchase
more weighing equipment; MDB intends to finance the equipment. However, progress in
this area, in which considerable Bank funds were also spent about a decade ago, is
crawlingly slow.






- 77 -
ANNEX2
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Detailed Description of Project Works
Paraguarf - It$
1.    The road section is part of Rt.1 the southern axis that connects Asunci6n and
Encarnacidn and beyond to Argentina. It carries considerable volumes of local and long
distance traffic and at present has no paved shoulders. The proposed works would
involve resurfacing the roadway and constructing paved shoulders alongside. Also,
sheltered bus-stops would be provided for the substantial numbers of people who use the
bus services that run along the road to San Lorenzo and to Asunci6n, and a long section
of rumble strip would be built within the town of Yaguar6n to slow down traffic and
protect pedestrians, especially tourists who come visit a historic Jesuit church there.
Ita - Cuatro Mojones
2.    The road branches off Rt. 1, the south access to Asunci6n, at Ita and generally
runs parallel to Rt. 1, south of it. It passes through Nemby, Ypane and Guarambar6 and
connects at Ita with Rt. 1. This allows an expeditious connection from Rt. 1 to the ports
of Villeta and San Antonio. In addition to relieving congestion on the heavily travelled
Rt. 1, improving the Ita - Cuatro Mojones road would divert part of the traffic bound for
the port of Asuncidn to these other ports.
3.    Under the proposed project a new 2-lane road would be constructed between ItA
and Ypane, including a by-pass of the city of Ipane. The new road would then join the
old shortly before Nemby from where it would be widened to 4-lanes all the way to
Cuatro Mojones at the main traffic junction with Asunci6n's ringroad. The works would
include the provision of sheltered bus-stops and adequate provision for pedestrian and
animal traffic in the rural areas.
Cuatro Moiones - Rt.9 (Defensores del Chaco - Madame Lynch)
4.    This is the main urban traffic distributor around Asunci6n. It rings the city from
Cuatro Mojones at the southern end, to Rt.9, the Trans-Chaco highway on the north, just
before reaching the bridge across the Paraguay river into the Chaco. Traffic congestion
is a perennial problem along the ring road, particularly at the main intersections where
long waits at traffic lights generate interminable queues especially during peak hours.
The narrower section of Madame Lynch, which is only 2-lanes wide and has no shoul-
ders, carries between 8,500 to 10,000 vehicles per day. The ring road is composed of
the Defensores del Chaco Ave. and Madame Lynch Ave. It intersects every major road
access into Asunci6n. The six main intersections along the road are:
5.    Cuatro Mojones, the southern access serves, in addition to the long distance
traffic accessing the city; the suburban area which has some light industry and commerce;
the only oil refinery of the country which is at the end of the Defensores del Chaco
extension just south of Cuatro Mojones, near the river; the Asuncidn wholesale food
market which is located just down the road on Defensores Del Chaco; and the city's



- 78 -
inter-urban bus terminal which is on Fernando de la Mora Ave. about 1 km from the
Cuatro Mojones intersection. A viaduct will be constructed in this area.
6.    Eusebio Ayala Ave. Intersection this is the most used truck route (passenger cars
may choose to use the Mariscal Lopez Ave. instead) to San Lorenzo, an important indus-
trial and distribution center and the split of Rt. 1 to the south, Encarnacion and Argentina,
and Rt.2 to the east, Ciudad del Este and Brazil. All long distance traffic out of Asun-
ci6n to the south and east must pass through San Lorenzo. The junction is a key node
and will remain such despite the relief that improvement of the Paraguarf - Ita road will
bring. A viaduct will be constructed at this intersection.
7.     Mariscal Lopez Ave. Intersection the Avenue is restricted to cars and light truck
use on the way to San Lorenzo; nevertheless it carries a high volume of traffic (about
20,000 vehicles per day). A viaduct will be constructed at this junction too.
8.     Santa Teresa Intersection Sta Teresa road joins Ave. Mariscal Lopez a short
distance to the west of the intersection and carries mostly traffic to or from the north
eastern areas of the city. An improved at-grade crossing with signal lights will be built
at this intersection.
9.     Aviadores del Chaco Intersection this is the intersection with the super-highway
leading to the airport, continuing on as a two lane road to the suburb of Luque and
beyond. An improved rotary will be built at this point.
10.   Junction with Rt.9 Route 9 is the Trans-Chaco highway it serves the northeast
of the country and considerable traffic reaches the city at this point. Rt.9 crosses the
Paraguay River at Remanso Bridge and just off the bridge on the west side of the river
the road splits one branch leads south to an international bridge to Argentina, and the
other leads to the northwest and the Chaco.
11.   Also at the Madame Lynch/Rt.9 junction, Rt.9 joins Rt.3. Rt.3 leads to Limpio -
Emboscada and beyond to San Estanislao and Tacuara on the center-east of the country.
The project includes paving of the Limpio - Emboscada section and the preparation of
the engineering and environmental studies for the continuation of the road to Tacuara.
An improved junction with traffic lights is foreseen at this intersection.
12.   To minimize land and housing expropriation where the three viaducts will be
built, existing city streets would be improved to serve right turn traffic movements, in
clover-leaf fashion, and all left turn movements will be eliminated.
13.   Another inter-related problem is being dealt with, with the proposed improvement
of the ring road. It is the absence of adequate storm water drainage. This results not
only in sections of the road flooding, which brings traffic to a standstill, but in entire
residential and commercial areas abutting these roads flooding as well.
14.   The proposed road improvements would: up-grade the road to 4-lane, urban
standard; provide three overpass viaducts at three main intersections thus replacing the
present traffic signals; and improve the other three main at-grade intersections including
the installation of appropriate traffic signals.



-79 -
Storm Drainage Improvements
15.   To ensure adequate provision of storm water drainage for the ringroad, it was
necessary to deal with constructions along the main natural channels into the Paraguay
river. Also, to ensure that the viaducts and intersections would be drained, and that
intersecting roads at critical locations would drain during the frequent torrential rains that
affect Asunci6n, improvements to secondary channels were also needed. The consultant's
design was closely coordinated with CORPOSANA, the authority responsible for munici-
pal drainage; drew on a storm drainage improvement study for the city, financed by JICA
in 1987; and was helped by an engineering study to improve the Itay watercourse, pre-
pared for CORPOSANA in 1989.
16.   Along the existing Madame Lynch road runs a 5-meter wide collector ditch,
which has been partly improved with masonry walls. This ditch improvement would be
completed, the bottom paved and, most importantly, the connection to the main drainage
outlet at the Itay watercourse would be improved. The ditch would remain open and
would be the median between the traffic lanes on the new ringroad. The two new lanes
of the road would be built on the side of the ditch which was not developed because the
ditch blocked it from access to the road. Most of the land expropriation would take place
there but no buildings are affected. The alternative of paving over the ditch to reduce
expropriation costs was also studied but discarded.
17.   Secondary channels feeding into the Madame Lynch ditch from either side would
also be improved. This requires the road grade to be raised along portions of the road.
Along raised sections of the road a frontage road would be built to serve existing road-
side businesses and housing developments where alternative access would not be avail-
able. Surface water run-off on Aviadores del Chaco (a main interceptor) would be
collected up-hill from the rotary and led by an improved channel also to the Itay water-
course. An old, insufficient culvert under the existing road, which causes flooding of
residences in the area, would be replaced.
18.   The other major improvement would be the widening of a section of the Lambare
creek. This creek crosses under a bridge on Fernando de la Mora Ave., between Cuatro
Mojones and the inter-city bus terminal. The bridge normally becomes submerged during
rains because the creek is too narrow about 100 meters down-stream. No buildings
would be affected but a fringe of land would need to be expropriated. Two other chan-
nels feeding into the creek just upstream from the bridge would also be improved as
drainage from the Cuatro Mojones area would also be discharged into the creek.
Limpio - Emboscada
19.   Paving the Limpio-Emboscada gravel road is currently mostly a solution to a
suburban traffic problem. However, the section (17.0 km long) is part of Rt.3, a nation-
al trunk road that links Asuncidn to the north of the country and to Bella Vista in Brazil.
Rt.3 joins at Tacuara the country's central north-south corridor which runs from Coronel
Oviedo to Santa Rosa and Yby-Yau which in turn serves traffic from and to Asuncidn
and San Pedro, Concepcidn, Amambay and Canindeyu. This traffic is currently forced
to travel south to Coronel Oviedo and join the congested Rt.2 into Asuncion. When Rt.3
is completed a considerable relief will be felt along Rt.2, especially San Lorenzo and the
southern end of Asuncion's ringroad



- 80 -
20.   The existing road is a dry-weather earth road which is often closed to traffic after
rain. Daily traffic in 1991 was some 650 vehicles of which about 47% were trucks. The
proposed works include construction of a 2-lane, 6.40 meter wide paved road, 2.5 meter
wide paved shoulders and the replacement of a 50-year old bridge at the Salado river.



- al -
ANNEX 3
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pilot Program of Earth-Road Stabilization
Backgzround
1.    Earth road stabilization with sulphonated oil is a relatively new technique which
has gained rapid acceptance. About 1,500 miles have reportedly been constructed in
South Africa (one of the producers of the oil), use in Venezuela has also been widespread
(another producer). It has been used in the United States northwest on logging roads,
and in repair applications (by injection) at considerable savings compared to more classi-
cal construction/repair techniques. US laboratories have declared the material to be
environmentally neutral.
2.    To apply the oil, standard construction and compaction of earth embankment
equipment and procedures are used. However, instead of spraying plain water to com-
pact the soils, a water solution of sulphonated oil is applied on the upper courses of the
embankment before compacting the surface (rates of oil to water of between 1:300 and
1:500 gallons or liters). The added cost of the oil has been estimated to be about $5,000
per kilometer of 6-meter wide roadbed.
3.    The sulphonated oil seems to be most effective on clay soils, such as are common
in Paraguay. Clay surfaces, well compacted, provide excellent riding quality when dry,
but deform rapidly (rut and pot-hole) under traffic when wet. The reason is that clay's
attract and absorb water, which lubricates the clay and destroys the cohesion it has when
dry, thus ruining the resistance to loads. The sulphonated oil produces an ionic change
in the clays' behavior that makes it repel water and behave as though still dry, even
under wet conditions.
4.     A five kilometer test section was recently done and is performing generally well.
Differences in performance are visible on different parts of the section; however, the
section was constructed without much control regarding soil quality, and possibly using
different road-side materials. Also, construction costs, subsequent maintenance require-
ments and the quality control requirements need systematic investigation.
The Pilot Program
5.    The purpose of the pilot program is to determine: (i) the extent specifications
used in other countries need to be adapted to Paraguayan conditions; (ii) the extent
control of soil quality is critical during construction (i.e. does the dosage need adjusting
for soil changes); (iii) how best to specify, contract, and supervise the work; (iv) what
the cost of construction is, and how it compares with graveling costs (a Colombian rural
roads agency reported that at gravel haul distances of more than 25 km, the sulphonated
oil was less costly); and (v) what maintenance work is subsequently required, at what
cost.
6.    The proposed project would consist of improving about 40 km of unpaved road
with the material (five carefully selected road sections of about 8 km each). Supervision
would be done by an experienced international consultant and the consultant's advise and



- 82 -
instructions would be followed closely. One or two sections would be done by contrac-
tors who would provide the necessary labor and operate their own equipment, under the
direct supervision and management of MOPC advised by the consultant. Once some
experience is gained, unit-price contracts would be used to contract the rest of the experi-
mental sections. Maintenance would be contracted.
Consulting Services
7.    The consulting services, which would be financed as a part of the project, would
include:
Soils investigations related to each road section, engineering design and the
technical specifications for each section (assuming that different soils might
require some difference in the specification). The program should also be open
to testing the use of sulphonated oil products from different suppliers so as to
permit contractors to seek competitive prices;
Preparing bidding document and assisting MOPC in the bidding and bid evalua-
tion. The contract documents would permit MOPC and the supervision, to vary
construction procedures during construction. Procedures which prove to be the
most efficient and satisfactory would be included in the technical specifications
so that standard unit price bids, for this type of work, may later be requested;
Supervising the work being performed: test alternative construction procedures
and maintain related cost records so as to modify or up-date specifications, if
necessary. At the same time the consultant would conduct strict laboratory
controls on the materials (soils) and dosages of the chemical product used. The
consultant would monitor closely the evolution of the stabilization process and
the performance of the finished product, over time and under traffic. The con-
sultant would maintain detailed records to document the history and results of the
work;
-     .-Supervising the maintenance of the sections, and recording the costs thereof.
Maintaining by contract would be tried, initial contracts would probably require
two years of maintenance by the contractor; and
-     Preparing regular progress reports, including recommendations to MOPC on
changes which might need to be made in the program, and a final evaluation at
the end of the program.
8.    The consultant would also provide on-the-job training to DH and DVR techni-
cians and engineers, and produce a manual to replicate the process in the future.
Schedule
9.    The pilot program would be carried out over a period of 9 months and supervi-
sion services would extend for 15 months to provide follow up and thoroughly document
the procedures used. MOPC would subsequently monitor the work's behavior and
produce a report on the experiment 12 and 24 months after the completion of the works.



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference to Prepare
Engineering Designs for the Improvement of the Ytay and Lambare Creeks
Background
10.   The Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC) has decided to carry
out, with the financial support of the World Bank, a study to devise alternatives to handle
the flow of water that will be carried by the Ytay and Lambare creeks once upstream
improvements included in the Eighth Highway Project are completed. The study would
include the preparation of the engineering designs for the solution adopted as most desir-
able technically and economically.
11.   The Ytay creek has its source at the Santa Maria development, east of the Mada-
ma Lynch section of Asunci6n's ringroad and runs north towards the Paraguay river, a
distance of about 12 km. Roughly two kilometers from its source the creek is joined by
the Madama Lynch canal, which runs alongside the ringroad and which will be consider-
ably improved under the Eighth Highway Project. Improvements will also include about
400 meters of the creek below this junction and up to the Aviadores del Chaco road
where the bridge over the creek will also be improved. These improvements will consid-
erably increase the flow of water carried by the creek.
12.   The Lambare creek has its source at the YtA Ybate development, roughly at the
intersection of the Fernando de la Mora and Defensores del Chaco avenues, a place
known as Cuatro Mojones and runs south towards the Paraguay river, a distance of about
8 km. Storm water drains from the Cuatro Mojones intersection to the creek will be im-
proved under the Eighth Highway Project. These improvements will considerably in-
crease the flow of water carried by the creek.
Obiectives
13.   The consultant should study different engineering alternatives to prevent fore-
seeable negative socio-environnental effects, including those of floods that the substantial
increase in the flow of water of these creeks would bring about. The consultant should
assess which the most viable alternative is from the technical and economic points of
view.
Sce  of Servi
14.   The consultant shall review alternatives to regulate the flow of water on each of
the
creeks, this should include, inter alia, the following:
A. For the Itay Creek
(a) an analysis of the location and possible design of a flow regulating reservoir
to prevent backflows from running into tributaries as well as prevent obstruction of the
structures built along the Madame Lynch Avenue canal, and below the Aviadores del



- 84 -
Chaco Ave. particularly at the Salvador del Mundo street and the Nu Guazd Park area.
The reservoir to be located, most probably, in the area between the railroad track and Nu
Guazd Park near the entrance to First Army Corps Barracks. Features to be considered
would be: (i) a low earthfill dam, most likely to be built using excavation material from
the reservoir itself and/or surplus materials from excavation for the works on the Ma-
dame Lynch canal and its tributaries; (ii) sodded faces; (iii) control devices, gates, run-
ways; (iv) the crest to be treated to include a bicycle and jogging path which would con-
nect to the bicycleway built along the ringroad; (v) guardrails and other devices for user
safety; (vi) the design to be blended into the surrounding landscape.
(b) the cleaning and straightening of the channel downstream below the bridge
at the Aviadores del Chaco Ave. Features to be considered would be: (i) deepening of
some stretches to allow proper drainage of the international airport drains and keep them
from becoming clogged due to backflow or overtopping; (ii) widening of narrow stretch-
es; (iii) straightening of meanders; (iv) reinforcing flood-prone banks, especially in areas
adjacent to the airport runways; (v) ancillary works/structures, footbridges, etc.
(c) survey and design to rebuild and/or expand the hydraulic sections to handle
the increased flows generated by new runoff conditions caused by works on Madame
Lynch Avenue, of the following bridges: (i) the railway bridge at Nu GuazlS, (ii) the
caballerfa bridge at Nu Guazd, (iii) the paseo Nandeyara bridge at Expo, (iv) the calle
Aeropuerto bridge - Surubii, (v) the paso Damian bridge on the road to Limpio, and (vi)
any other bridges as necessary.
(d) landscaping and reforestation. Preparation of areas for parkland, planting of
trees along the banks of the creek, erosion control devices, footpaths, etc.
(e) cadastral surveys. Cadastral surveys, interviews, studies for property ap-
praisal, expropriation compensation, relocation of residents affected by floods, etc.
B. For the Lambare Creek
(a) cleaning and straightening of channel to improve the flow downstream of the
Fernando de la Mora Ave. as far as the Paraguay river. The following features would
be considered: (i) deepening of some stretches to allow for proper drainage from adjacent
urban areas and prevent overtopping; (ii) widening of narrow stretches; (iii) straightening
of meanders; (iv) reinforcement of flood-prone banks, especially in the vicinity of built-
up areas; (v) ancillary works/structures, footbridges, etc.
(b) survey and design of works to expand the hydraulic sections to handle the
increased volumes of runoff waters caused by works on Madame Lynch Avenue near the
wholesale market,for the following bridges: (i) the Primavera bridge, (ii) the Hernan
Cortes Avenue bridge, (iii) the 1 de Marzo Avenue bridge, (iv) the Per6n Avenue
bridge, and (v) any other bridges as necessary.
(c) landscaping and reforestation. Preparation of areas for parkland, planting of
trees along banks of creek, erosion control devices, footpaths for visitors, etc.
(d) cadastral surveys. Cadastral surveys, interviews, studies for property apprais-
al, expropriation compensation, relocation of residents affected by flooding, etc.



- 85 -
Description of Consulting Services
15.   The designs shall be completed in three stages:
Phase I       Preliminary Surveys
Phase II     Location Survey - Final Location
Phase III    Final Design - Tender Documents
Phase I
16.   Before starting the surveys required in this phase, the Consultant shall obtain at
least the following information from the Owner: (a) particulars of catchment areas, based
on hydrological surveys of the watercourses, socioeconomic character of the immediate
area of influence, and the recommendations from the environmental impact assessments;
(b) confirmation of the approximate lengths of the creek reaches to be surveyed and
design characteristics based on the inventory produced in the environmental impact
assessments; (c) other significant information for the Project.
16.1 Reconnaissanc The following shall be included:
a.    Compilation of basic data in the form of topographic maps, aerial pho-
tographs, satellite images, subdivision plats, road designs in area, hydro-
logic data, road inventory and any other information relevant to the
Project.
b.    Preparation of photomaps, mosaics, etc., to identify on maps, at appro-
priate scale, terminal points and critical points to which Project will need
to afford special attention.
c.    Stereoscopic examination of aerial photographs and survey of grade lines
on contour maps, and general determination of the feasible alternatives
for the planned works, taking as a basis the recommendations of the
environmental impact assessment.
16.2 Site investingaio The following shall be included:
a.    Examination of the site with persons familiar with the area to obtain
information needed to determine alternatives for the Project and ascertain
any potential legal implications vis-a-vis current owners that would be
affected by the works.
b.    Checking grades and lines established tentatively during the reconnais-
sance stage, using direct field measurements, particularly on critical
stretches.
16.3 Appraisal of altematives and selection of preferred ontion
a.    Estimate the volumes of earthwork from typical sections of planned
canal. Estimate also the amounts and size of masonry and drainage
structures and other appurtenant structures for each altemative proposed.
b.    For each alternative, estimate construction, operating, and maintenance
costs on the basis of quantities needed for major work items.



- 86 -
c.     Using data compiled, assess important factors such as site configuration,
lengths, geological problems, availability of materials, and others rele-
vant to this phase.
d.    After due comparison of findings, select best alternative from the techni-
cal and economic standpoint and recommendation of an alternative for an
eventual final design.
16.4 Documentation and report The report containing or accompanying the
documentation on reconnaissance surveys, appraisal of alternatives, and selection
of preferred alternative, must contain the following:
a.     Description of the surveyed area with full details relevant to the different
alternatives, and particularly to the selection of each section surveyed,
with sound technical and economical justification.
b.     Synopsis of the technical features of each alternative examined, partic-
ularly in regard to preliminary scaling of required hydraulic sections.
c.     Quantity and cost estimates for each alternative.
d.     Sketch of longitudinal profiles of lines surveyed, using horizontal scale
1:10 000 and vertical scale 1:1 000, showing average grade on canal
reaches and location of masonry and drainage structures.
e.    Plan view (scale 1: 10 000) showing terminal points of lines surveyed,
significant points, junctions with roads, rivers, creeks, etc.
f.     Synopsis of the economic conditions of each alternative examined.
Phase II - Location Survey. Final Location
17.   After the Phase I report has been approved, the Consultant shall conduct field
surveys to determine the final location of the alternative chosen as most economic, in
accordance with reconnaissance plans. Technical standards of the Roads Directorate and
those of the Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications
(MOPC) are to serve as the guideline or frame of reference for the topographic surveys
from which will result the ground and contour maps of the project zone, and will also
be the guideline for the final engineering designs.
17.1 Maintenance program The Consultant shall prepare a detailed maintenance
program for the works on the two creeks, including a routine and a periodic
maintenance program.
17.2 Special Studies Concurrent with designing the traverse, the Consultant
shall perform detailed studies of the hydrology, cadastre and properties, drainage,
and soils as well as the geotechnical surveys. The guidelines for this work will
be provided by Owner together with the findings and recommendations of the
environmental impact assessment. The special Studies will be critical in the
location of the center line and will be taken into account in the final design.
17.3 Cadastral Survevs should be done on standard forms designed for this pur-
pose by the Environmental Unit of the Ministry, so that the information is as reli-



- 87 -
able as possible and can then be use later to appraise the property affected by the
Project and to compensate owners whose properties must be bough if necessary.
17.4 Appraisal and compensation studies for land and buildings are to include
plans for the relocation of families affected by the Project.
17.5 Documentation and reports of Phase 11 The reports for this phase shall con-
tain:
a.     Traverse survey alignment field books, including results of adjustments
and error of closure, location and measurements of main bench marks on
traverse and location sketches of culverts and drains.
b.     Level books (rise and fall, latitudinal) clearly showing sequence for
checking BM levelling, and errors of closure compared with allowable
error as per formulae established for checks.
c.     Sketch of longitudinal profile of center line, to scales:  V= 1:200,
H =2 000, showing all inflection points in the terrain, and affluent water-
courses. Draw a light line for tentative grade both for channel bed and
bank protection structures.
d.     Sketch of cross sections of terrain, scale H = V = 1:200.
e.     Plan view of strip surveyed with 2 m contour intervals, scale 1:2 000,
showing prominent natural features, buildings within core strip, high-
tension lines, cables, intersections, accesses, etc.
f.     Report summarizing methodology used for this phase, clearly setting out
comments on solutions adopted for critical stretches and specific circum-
stances noted in special surveys.
g.     Other documents required or considered useful in accordance with the
Terms of Reference or otherwise requested by Owner.
Phase III - Final Design - Tender Documents
18.    Once the Phase II report has been approved, the Consultant shall prepare the final
designs and the tender documents.
18.1 Final desig The Consultant shall carry out the following tasks:
a.     Confirm the center line through observation and analysis of longitudinal
and cross-section profiles approved by Owner. Variants in the center
line will be permitted if they offer technical and economic advantages
over the original line, with due regard to Owner's observations and rec-
ommendations in Phase II.
b.     Plot the grade line of the channel bed and creek bank protection struc-
tures in longitudinal and cross-section profile, with due regard to recom-
mendations of special surveys to minimize earthwork volumes.



- 88 -
c.    Design and sizing of bridges and culverts and drainage system for lateral
inlets to main channel.
d.     Design of appurtenant structures and ancillary works.
18.2 Ouantities and cost estimates When the channel elements have been de-
signed and sized, the Consultant will carry out the following tasks:
a.     Quantity estimates of earthwork needed, using average end-area method.
Mass diagram not needed for longitudinal balancing since most earth-
work will be cuts, with minimal fills.
b.     Quantity estimates for work items.
c.     Unit price analysis and determination.
d.     Construction cost estimate.
e.     Construction work plan in accordance with priorities set in environmental
impact study.
18.3 Topographic plans The Consultant shall prepare the following documenta-
tion:
a.     Contour plans on sheets showing 1.5 km of channel at scale H = 1:2000,
following the Owner's established model. The following to be shown on
the plan:
- Graphic representation of center line of channel with mileage
- Circular curve elements if necessary
- Graphic representation of limits of core strip showing major building
structures
- Location of masonry and drainage structures showing direction of water
flow, skew, and dimensions of works, and affluent flows to main chan-
nel.
b.    Longitudinal profiles including:
- Profile of the natural terrain
- Graphic representation of channel bed grade and bank top-outs, show-
ing principal elements and flow velocity control devices.
- Stake mileage
- Ground and grade elevation
- Values of channel bed slopes and lengths
- Location of masonry and cross-drainage structures, particularly at afflu-
ent inlet points.
c.     Cross-section plans on sheets of the same size as the contour plans, scale
H=V= 1:200, with following information:
- Cross-section profile of terrain showing fences
- Graphic representation of channel bed grade and bank top-outs, show-
ing slopes, erosion protection devices, etc.



- 89 -
- Stake mileage and ground and grade elevations
- Location of masonry and drainage structures, particularly at affluent
inlet points.
- Areas of cut or fill sections to compute volume of earthworks or grad-
ing, to within 0.1 in2
d.    General Plan referenced to National Map, scale 1:50 000.
e.    Special plans/drawings if necessary.
Final report
19.   When the design work is finished, the Consultant shall present a final report (five
copies) summarizing all work done, and the findings obtained during development of the
project, including comments. With the final report, the Consultant shall submit, for the
Owner to review and approve, all final documentation on the project, as listed below,:
a. Engineer's report
b. Summary of quantity estimates
c. Unit price analysis
d. Official project estimate
e. Construction work plan
f. Tender documents including:
- Instructions to Bidders
- General and Special Conditions
- Technical Specifications for Construction Work
- Draft Construction Contract
g. Contour plans
h. Cross-section plans
i. General plan
j. Detail drawings
20.   The Owner may, during the course of the Project, specify any addition, deletion,
or modification of the conditions of these Terms of Reference, where such action would
in its view offer improvements to help achieve the objectives set out in the environmental
impact assessment.
Completion Schedule
21.   Work shall be completed by the Consultant in 180 days counted from the day the
order to commence the work is issued. Reports shall be presented according to the
following timetable (all times counted from date of the order to commence):
Phase I report: 45 days
Phase II report: 120 days
Final report: 180 days
Ministry of Public Works and Transport
March 1993



a



- 91 -
ANNEX5
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference to Prepare
A Transportation Master Plan for the City of Asunci6n
Background
1.    The Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC), with the financial
support of the World Bank, has decided to carry out a study on how to improve Greater
Asunci6n's road accesses including and identification of road investments, public transit
alternatives and traffic management measures that could help solve congestion problems
that currently exist in and around the Metropolitan area.
2.    MOPC's Planning Office (OPMI) will be the focal point for the study and it and
the consultant will work closely with the municipal experts on all aspects of the metropol-
itan area's road network.
3.    Asunci6n is a city of 620,000 inhabitants growing at a rate of 1.9 % annually.
If the population of the surrounding municipalities is taken into account the total popula-
tion of the metropolitan area increases to about 1,150,000 inhabitants growing at about
3.3 %.
4.    Vehicular traffic in the area is currently difficult; there is peak hour congestion,
and during off-peak hours there is an inadequate level of service on most main streets and
roads. The road system has a limited capacity due to many factors: from inadequately
designed and poorly maintained roads and a lack of traffic signs, to crossroads and
intersections designed for much lower volumes of traffic than those using them today.
Objective
5.    The study is expected to offer recommendations which will result in an improve-
ment of the present traffic situation and an orderly long-run growth of the road infra-
structure. The immediate period of analysis would be the 5 years after the completion
of the study, and the long term outlook would be twenty years.
6.    The results of the investigations should lead to the preparation of a short term
investment plan or program, whose effects must be a part of the long term objectives.
7.    The short term plan or program should identify the main traffic generating areas,
measures to regulate traffic (signs, traffic control measures, regulations, education, etc.)
and any other elements the consultant may consider adequate to solve the immediate
problems detected.
Scope of the Study
8.    The study would include the city of Asunci6n and the municipalities of Mariano
Roque Alonso, Luque, San Lorenzo, Nemby and San Antonio. However, the area of



- 92 -
analysis may be enlarged if deemed necessary by findings during the execution of the
study, in particular as a result of the origin/destination surveys.
9.    The study would include, but not be limited to, the following:
10.   Field surveys to assess vehicle traffic volumes on the basic road network. Ori-
gin/ destination surveys to determine existing traffic patterns in the area, including pas-
senger surveys of bus and other public transport usage. Short, medium and long-term
traffic projections, including an analysis of the vehicle mixture in traffic and a breakdown
of the private vs. public transport use. Time and speed studies to determine prevailing
levels of service of the road network and its variation over the years.
11.   The surveys shall be carried out taking into account that the objective is to assess
the traffic streams to, from and within the belt defined by the metropolitan area of Asun-
ci6n.
12.   The present infrastructure will be studied based on available cartography and
aerial photography, complemented by land reconnaissance as necessary. The basic road
network to be studied will be defined together with MOPC and the surrounding municipal
govermments, and will be followed by a systematic inventory of this network. Based on
such inventory, the field reconnaissance and the traffic studies, improvements will be
suggested. The possible location of a system of ringroads or beltways, skirting the area
and connecting the municipalities in the metropolitan area should be considered. Access
routes for freight transport by truck, freight transfer stations and truck parks, and the best
location for freight stations should be identified. Preliminary designs for the roadways
and other physical works under consideration including possible designs for important
intersections and freight stations should be offered.
13.   The potential use of non-motorized vehicles in the area should be explored. If
it appears that there is a potential for NM transport specific recommendations on the
subject should be offered, including suggestions for segregating this traffic and possible
location of NM transport routes.
14.   In addition to determining the traffic demands, research should be done to recom-
mend improvements to the public passenger transportation system of the area. Alterna-
tives to move passengers using public transport should be contemplated (exclusive bus-
ways and/or other viable means). The main arteries for public passenger services would
be identified, as well as the best location for inter-city bus terminals.
15.   The regulatory environment for passenger transport should be researched, espe-
cially with regard to route licensing, service frequency requirements and price controls.
Best international practices in this area should be identified and recommendations on what
and how to improve to approach those practices should be offered.
16.   Accident prevention should figure importantly in the review and recommendations
on measures to this end should be included, particularly, but not limited to, the design
of pedestrian crossings, pedestrian overpasses, and the use of traffic lights.
17.   The installation of appropriate traffic control systems shall be analyzed on all
arteries that may require them because of their traffic volumes, and recommendations
would be expected on the use of pricing mechanisms to discourage use of high traffic
density streets by private vehicles and/or for parking.



- 93 -
18.   Because of the heavy influence of rivers and rainfall drainage on designs and
improvements, concurrent with these investigations, a hydrologic and hydraulic study of
the area should be included. For this purpose (i) information on the rivers and basins of
interest to the area and on rainfall in it would be gathered, (ii) recent drainage projects
and/or any other work under preparation that may have an incidence on the area would
be obtained, (iii) the performance of works already completed would be evaluated and
taken into account in recommending actions for the area, (iv) the overall hydrologic per-
formance of all the systems involved and their compatibility with the receiving bodies
would be assessed, and (v) preliminary costs of the works associated with drainage would
be estimated.
19.   The studies should pay particular attention to the environmental consequences not
only of traffic but construction and operation of the roads. All proposed investments
should include an evaluation of their possible environmental impact. The evaluations
shall pay special attention to traffic induced effects such as noise, air pollution and vibra-
tion. Improvements must be planned taking into account growth in the urban environ-
ment, wherever it will take place, and avoid negative effects such as 'barrier effects",
restrictions to commercial, residential and/or amusement activities, limitations to the
movement of pedestrians and cyclists, etc., which are normally produced by heavy traffic
lanes. The proposed designs must also be pleasing from an aesthetic standpoint and
agreeable to the eye, not destructive of the geographic environment. Moreover, surface
drainage and necessary, if any, protection against erosion must be recommended.
20.   Recommendations would be expected on how to use prices to control the pollut-
ing effects of motor vehicles, to encourage a rational use of the road network and incen-
tivate the use of public transport within the metropolitan area.
21.   The economic feasibility of each proposed recommendation must be analyzed.
An economic evaluation shall be made of each individual project or proposal, as well as
for the overall program. Ihe practical stages of the construction program and its timing
should be established based on the economic return of each proposal. Programming and
scheduling the works should also take into account budgetary restrictions anticipated by
the authorities.
Work programming and reporting
22.   The study will be phased as follows:
Phase I      : Introduction and diagnosis
Phase II: Assessment and design of short term measures
Phase III: Assessment and design of long term measures
23.   An Inception Report will be produced within three months of initiating the study
and bimonthly reports would be submitted thereafter to show progress.
24.   Three technical reports shall be produced:
Technical Report of Phase I
Technical Report of Phase II
Final Report
25.   The Study shall be completed in 18 months.






- 95 -
ANNEX 6
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance to
Strengthen MOPC's Organization
Background
1.    The Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MOPC) has decided to hire,
with the financial support of the World Bank, consultants to carry out a management
assessment of the ministry, with the view to identifying ways and means of raising the
effectiveness and efficiency of the ministry's overall organizational performance.
2.    The objectives of the ministry are to build the most economic road and highway
network for the country in the most cost-effective manner possible, and to maintain that
network in optimal condition at a minimum cost. The proposed study is aimed at identi-
fying management interventions that would help to improve the effectiveness of the
organization in achieving those objectives.
3.    Technical assistance to improve performance in micro-management activities (ac-
counting, internal auditing, management of own funds, investment management and
follow-up, purchases, etc.) at the Administration and Finance UnderSecretariat has been
going on for some time, and procedural manuals to improve the execution of these
activities have been produced by a consultant. Work has been extended to the Public
Works UnderSecretariat and will be followed by similar micro-management reviews and
assessments in the Transport, and the Mines and Energy UnderSecretariats.
Objectives
4.    The purpose of the study is to design improved macro-management methods to
help the Ministry discharge its responsibilities in a more effective and cost efficient
manner, taking into account the strategic alternatives available to the ministry to accom-
plish its objectives.
5.    The study is expected, inter alia, to set in motion a process to improve coordina-
tion in the development of policy guidelines, strategic plans (including highways and
other modal plans), economic planning parameters, technical guidelines, and administra-
tive processes and procedures; and to improve coordination and team-work in implement-
ing directives and carrying out the ministry's tasks. If necessary, the study would recom-
mend the establishment of new structures and systems.
Scope of the Study
6.    The consultant should critically review and analyze current management proce-
dures and their resulting operational effectiveness, and collect all necessary information,
including performance and other surveys and an in-depth review of the staff and staffing
constraints faced by the ministry, to allow the preparation of a detailed diagnosis of the
current performance of the ministry. Based on the diagnosis and on his experience the
consultant would prepare a set of recommendations.



- 96 -
7.    The consultant's recommendations would be followed by a period of active
consultation between the consultant and the client, particularly top and mid-level manag-
ers, during which alternative interventions would be examined and discussed, including
the consultant's recommendations. The consultant would document the results of this
interaction for the client's top management. As a result of this interaction and the feed-
back process, the consultant would develop a plan of action to improve the ministry's
performance. The consultant would document in detail the plan of action and prepare
procedural manuals on how to implement it. He would also assist the client in its initial
implementation and assessment of initial results.
B.    If agreed upon, the consultant would return for a second phase of the study to
reassess performance under the plan of action, to feedback observations and recommenda-
tions to the client and, if necessary, revise the plan of action.
Work Schedule and Reporting
9.    The office of the UnderSecretary Administration and Finance assisted by a Com-
mittee of top and mid-level managers, will be the executing agent for the study, and will
coordinate the consultant's activities.
10.   The study would be carried out in two phases, the second contingent on agree-
ment being reached between the government the Bank to extend the study to a second
phase.
11.   The first Dhas would comprise the review and assessment of current practices,
preparation of the consultant's diagnosis and recommendations, the discussion and exami-
nation of alternatives, the development of the plan of action, its initial implementation
and the preliminary assessment of results.
12.   The second i has , if agreed upon, would comprise a revisit by the consultant
which would include an evaluation of results, feeding back his assessment to the client,
discussing implementation experience and, if necessary, reviewing and reorienting the
plan of action.
13.   Phase One is expected to take six months.
Phase Two, if carried out, three months.
14.   An Inception Report would be submitted by the consultant one month after the
start of the study. In three months the consultant would submit his Diagnosis and Rec-
ommendations. This would be followed, within a month of the submission of the Diag-
nosis and Recommendations, by a report on the Plan of Action and the Manuals on how
to implement it. On completion of phase one the consultant would submit his initial
assessment of results.
15.   Within a month of initiating phase two the consultant would prepare an Evalua-
tion Report and on completion of phase two a final report would be submitted, including
any further recommendations the consultant may wish to make.



- 97 -
ANNEX7
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Strengthening MOPC's Environmental Unit
Background
1.    MOPC established recently an Environmental Unit to accompany the development
of highway projects, and prepare when necessary environmental impact assessments
(EIAs) for the projects the ministry finances. The Unit is adequately staffed but the
group is young in age and inexperienced and lacks professional exposure; in addition the
Unit needs to be properly equipped. With financing included in two recent IDB projects
the Unit is being provided with a vehicle, office, computer and other equipment, as well
as salary supplements to keep some of the staff employed by the Unit full time; all geared
to satisfy the environmental assessment and monitoring needs imposed by IDB's own
projects.
Objecive
2.    The proposed project intends to provide some additional training and, in particu-
lar, professional exposure to the staff. In addition, the project would provide help to the
Unit to raise the level of environmental awareness, not only within the ministry but also
among other agencies closely related to MOPC's activities.
Scope of the assistance
(a) Environmental Exposure
3.    The proposed project would finance registration fees, travel and subsistence costs
for Unit staff to attend professional conferences and workshops on environmental assess-
ment and impact evaluation, outside Paraguay. These conferences and workshops would
last from a few days to perhaps a week and may be preferably within the Latin America
region but also abroad. A total of ten such conference attendances are expected to be
sponsored.
4.    The average cost of each attendance is estimated to be about US$3,000 for a total
cost of this item of US$30,000.
(b) Training
5.    The proposed project would finance two scholarships for Unit staff to attend
longer residential courses at any of a number of academic institutions such as the Nation-
al University of Popayan in Colombia where a formal course on environmental manage-
ment of roads and road construction is offered, or at the Inter-american Center for Inte-
grated Development of Land and Water (CIDIAT) where intensive courses on environ-
mental assessment are offered.
6.    The scholarships would include payment of tuition, transport and subsistence and
are estimated to cost about US$15,000 each, for a total cost of this item of US$30,000.



- 98 -
(c) Environmental Awareness and Dissemination
7.    The proposed project would include financial assistance for the Unit to organize
two workshops cum  seminars on environmental aspects (i) of highways and road trans-
port, and (ii) of ports and river transport.
8.    The objective of these workshops would be to familiarize top and middle-level
managers of the ministry and of other agencies related to MOPC's activities (municipali-
ties in particular) with environmental matters including EIA. The workshops would
include a general introduction to environmental aspects in the project cycle (as in the
framework of the Bank's Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment), they
would deal with the social, institutional and the properly environmental aspects of the
dilemma generically called environmental problem. The workshops would also deal with
issues associated with land rights, involuntary resettlement the evaluation and quantifica-
tion of alternatives, development of mitigating measures and environmental sustainability.
9.    The intended target group for the seminars would include MOPC's other director-
ates, in particular the Village Roads directorate, other ministries, in particular agriculture,
indian agencies (INDI), consultants and NGOs.
10.   The Bank would assist with technical material: the Environmental Assessment
Source Book, operational directives, Environmental Aspects of Land Transport Construc-
tion and Maintenance, and overall logistical support. The Project would finance the
participation of reputable consultants to act as resource persons at the workshops (it
would pay fees, travel and subsistence costs), in addition to the cost of physical facilities
and accommodation, and other materials and logistic support as necessary.
11.   The workshops are estimated to cost about US$20,000 each for a total cost of this
item of US$40,000.



- 99 -
ANNEX 8
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Strengthening the Planning and Projects Department
of the Directorate of Highways
Backffound
1.    During project preparation DH's Department of Planning and Projects (DPP) was
furnished with engineering drafting software (AUTOCAD) to familiarize the staff in the
department with modern engineering design techniques and to help them review engineer-
ing designs prepared by consultants. Although consultants (from the US Federal High-
way Administration) went to Paraguay and trained some of the Department's engineers
in the basic used of the software package, and one of them visited the US-FHWA to learn
more about the multiple potentials of this tool, the DPP is far from knowledgeable on
computer-assisted designs.
2.    AUTOCAD is a computer-assisted drafting system that has to be interfaced with
other engineering software (such as that produced by DCA, a US engineering company)
to become a useful design tool. Other software packages (for instance, ROADCAD
developed by Sito of Finland) are more complete and self contained computer-assisted
engineering design systems for planning and designing highways, streets, railways and
other traffic arteries. The packages are usually linked forward with compatible models
to design bridges, and backward to appropriate data collection and storing techniques for
geotechnical, survey and map information.
3.    The packages are usually composed of three modules: the input module, the data
base and the output module. Required inputs are normally digitized data on photogram-
metry, surveys, soil tests, laboratory tests, and other geotechnical information. The data
base is then manipulated with a specially designed user interface model which accepts
predefined design parameters and allows assembling, editing, managing, listing, plotting,
viewing and filing the manipulated data or computer-assisted design. The output module
permits obtaining longitudinal sections, cross sections, maps, geometrical information,
perspective pictures of the design, and bills of quantities for contracting use.
Objective
4.    The purpose of the assistance included in the project is to train a small group of
MOPC-DPP engineers in the use of computer-assisted design techniques, at least to the
level where they can effectively supervise the work done by consultants.



- 100 -
Scope of the Assistance
5.    The proposed project would finance registration fees, travel and subsistence costs
for DPP staff to attend training courses on the subject, most likely in Florida, USA
where a specialized institute exists. The project would also finance hiring expert consul-
tants (most likely US-FHWA personnel) to help DPP become conversant with the tech-
nology. Also included would be the purchasing of linkable and computer hardware
compatible engineering software.
6.    The proposed training, associated hiring of consultants and software would cost
no more than US$100,000.



- 101 -
ANNEX 9
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference to Prepare and Implement
The National Motor Vehicle Registry
1. Introduction
1.1    For some time the Transportation Undersecretariat of the Ministry of Public
Works and Communications (MOPC) has been intending to take steps to create an effec-
tive control over the property and licensing of vehicles.
1.2   Implementing such a system would make it possible to maintain a statistical
record of all vehicles, allow to effectively collect registration and other fees that could
be applied to road improvements which, in turn, would improve traffic safety, and there
is also the intention to eliminate the use of illegal circulation permits such as those issued
to vehicles in bordering countries.
1.3    An efficient control will require a computerized system of information to permit
consultation from different points of the country.
1.4    A proposed law is currently being processed in Congress which will establish the
national vehicle registry in the country, and will establish the dates for all vehicles to be
registered with the new system.
2. Objectives
2.1    The project is to establish a computerized National Motor Vehicle Registry
(RNA), operated centrally and by the municipalities. The system would be run through
a computerized systems of data input, storage and retrieval of information on vehicles,
owners and drivers, that can be consulted by the agencies duly authorized to that effect.
3. Main activities of the project
3.1    Survey of the present system of motor vehicles/owners/drivers registration. It
would consist of the following:
-      Visits/Interviews with persons acquainted with the present system of
vehicle control.
-      Becoming familiar with information presently handled in that area.
3.2    Functional analysis of existing applications. It would consist of the following:
-      Detecting failures in the present system.
-      Meeting with politicians and responsible officials in the Ministry to deter-
mine the scope of the project.
-      Visits/Interviews with persons familiar with the present system in order
to define the ideal model to satisfy local needs.
-      Preparation of the proposed solution (preliminary draft)



- 102 -
3.3    Training of paraguayan technicians. It would consist of the following:
Carry out the necessary training to adjust the transfer of knowledge
between the to the Paraguayan teams.
Training Paraguayan officers in Development Methodology, Functional
Analysis, Data Analysis, Programming Languages to be defined, Open
Systems, Servers Controller.
3.4    Preparation of the logical project. It would consist of the following:
-      Gather detailed information on the solution agreed in Activity II, based
on the Development Methodology which is the object of Activity III.
-      Define the architecture of the whole system and the type to be initially
established in the project.
-      Apply techniques to treat the information converted into data base.
-      Define the information for Data Input/Output
-      Define the organizational procedures of the project.
-      Define the specific documents (registration certificate, fines, documents
for payment of property tax on vehicles, etc.)
3.5    Specification of data processing eauipment. It would consist of the following:
Define the size of the required equipment (hardware and software)) for
the development and execution of the project.
3.6    Development of the physical proiect. It would consist of the following:
-      Definition of forms for data input.
-      Specification, coding and testing of the programs.
-      Preparation and printing of the operating manuals and those for the us-
ers.
-      Creation of the environment for the development, tests and production
of the equipment.
-      Definition of the report and forms for data output.
3.7    General simulation of the project. It would consist of the following:
-      Link the programs making up the system.
-      Simulate the execution of the project with real data.
-      Evaluate its performance in terms of time required to answer consulta-
tions.
-      Verify the operative capacity of the project.
3.8    Preparation of a geographic location map to establish the proiect. It would
consist of the following:
Prepare strategies to establish/advertise the system.
Administrative improvements.



- 103 -
3.9    National awareness on the use of the project. It would consist of the following:
-      Use of the media (television, newspapers) to make people aware of the
project application according to the adopted strategy .
3.10   Implementation of administrative routines. It would consist of the following:
-     Administrative improvements of the agencies responsible for the flow of
project information.
3.11   New registration of the national fleet/owners/drivers. It would consist of the
following:
-     New registration of all vehicles circulating in Paraguay and of their
owners.
-     New registration of all vehicle drivers.
-      Supervise the execution of the project during the first 6 months, making
the necessary adjustments.
3.12 General project administration. It would consist of the following:
Permanent technical and administrative support of all activities.
General project monitoring through the establishment of control points.
- Viability of the required administrative measures for the correct perfor-
mance of the project.
4. Remarks
4.1   In planning the project, it must be considered that local staff -4 top level systems
analysts and 4 mid level technicians (programmers)- will be permanently assigned to the
project. They will later be responsible for the system.
4.2    The estimated length of the project is two years, tentatively divided in the follow-
ing manner:
* Development    16 months
* Establishment 2 months
* New registration of the fleet 6 months
5. Indications about the equiRment
5.1   Selection of equipment will be done in stage 5 of the project (see 4.5 above).
However, the Ministry of Public Works and Communications is working today with an
IBM AS/400 unit and the technical staff is qualified in its use. Perhaps, though, at the
time of selecting the equipment, thought should be given to the possibility of an open
architecture (servers with terminals in local networks), this being the world trend, in
addition to having lower acquisition costs. It is important to point out that this architec-
ture is being adopted by the Ministry of Finance and that a standard type of architecture
and software should be maintained at government level. The Ministry of Finance uses
the UNIX operational system and the ORACLE data base controller.



- 104-
The equipment should contemplate the installation of a central computer in the MOPC
to which approximately 15 local terminals will be connected, plus another about 15
remote terminals (in the principal Departments), through modems and multiplexors. The
communications technology must also be defined: point to point linkage, dialed line,
microwaves, radio hookup, etc.
Initially the use of the remote linkage system would be only for consultations, inclu-
sions/alterations to be made by means of diskettes because there is not much reliability
on the remote linkages currently available.



- 105 -
ANNEX 10
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Paraguayan and Bank Procurement Practices
Background
1.   In May 1990, the Bank's legal staff surveyed Paraguay's procurement legislation.
A summary of their findings is below (section A). In January 1992, a review was done
of Paraguayan procurement practices. Many discrepancies between local law and Bank
procedures were identified. They are listed below (section B).
2.    Project missions have discussed with DH and the Comptroller General of the
Nation (CGN) the need to adapt bidding documents to Bank practice not only for use in
the proposed project, but because they are the result of many years of proven successful
practice around the world. The mission was assured that this would be done and that the
Bank's sample bidding documents would be used. According to the Comptroller General
following Bank practice posed no problem provided that the Loan Agreement contain spe-
cific mention of each item, for the procurement of civil works, goods, and/or services,
on which the Sample Bidding Documents differ from Paraguayan legislation, as was done
in the SENASA project. The Loan Agreement, according to the CGN, prevails over
local legislation.
3.    At appraisal the items listed in section B below were reviewed again with DH and
CGN, and spanish translations of the Bank'g Sample Bidding Documents, sample consul-
tant's contract, and sample prequalification documents were provided to MOPC and the
CGN. MOPC was advised that use of the Bank standard bidding documents was manda-
tory after May 1, 1993 and that corresponding and equivalent documents for use in
Paraguay would have to be prepared prior to negotiations for the proposed loan.
A. Compendium of Paraguayan Procurement Legislation
4.    Administrative Organization Law of June 22. 1909
(a)    Art. 192. Regime for acquisitions and works. It calls for public bidding
for all purchases of goods and works for the governmental administration.
Minor items, deserted bids, and urgent purchases are exempted.
(b)   Art. 204. Requires as a condition of eligibility that a bidder be 'previ-
ously recognized as eligible by the administration".
(c)   the remaining articles contain procedural provisions.
5.    Decree No. 14161 of December 13. 1921. Establishes procedures for the acquisi-
tion of goods and for the execution of works by force-account ("administraciOn").
6.    Decree No. 33789 of June 22. 1929. Establishes that the procurement of goods
and works by the administration require prior review of the Comptroller General (Contra-
lorfa).



- 106-
7.    Decree No. 3119 of July 23. 1936. Forbids governmental agencies ("r.arti
ciones p.Sblica") from purchasing directly from suppliers without the prior consent of
the Ministry of Finance.
8.    Decree 20203 of February 7. 1940. Forbids public agencies from considering
bids submitted after the bid closing date.
9.    Decree 2973 of March 20. 1944. Authorizes ministers to approve bidding docu-
ments and contracting conditions for their respective Ministries.
10.   Decree No. 35635 of September 20, 1982. Requires the central administration
and decentralized agencies, to use public bidding procedures approved by the executive,
to procure goods and services financed from internal or external sources. Except one
purchase per type per fiscal year below G/.500,000.
11.   Resolution No. 117 of January 15. 1983. Requires:
(a)    pre-qualification of bidders;
(b)   that central government agencies, autonomous entities, autarchic entities
and mixed enterprises utilizing either their own funds or domestic or in-
ternational financing, contract feasibility studies, project designs, and
works supervision in compliance with decree 28482 of September 22,
1972. The decree requires that all feasibility studies, engineering and
architectural projects, works and works supervision of an official and
private nature, be carried out by local enterprises either on their own or
in association with foreign partners.
(c)   that bidders be registered prior to bidding.
12.   Decree No. 9319 of October 20. 1941. Creates a Registry of Bidders for Public
Works.
B. Discrepancies between the local law and Bank ICB procedures
13.   (a)    Foreign firms are forced to enter into joint ventures with local firms for
carrying out civil works (40% minimum participation of local firms),
supply and erection of electromechanical equipment (20% minimum
participation), and consulting services (30% minimum participation).
(b)    All consulting services must be procured from 1QSI  registered firms
through a form of LCB.
(c)    There are no bid evaluation criteria, and the concept of "lowest evaluated
bid' is not provided for. Law 1045 states that the lowest bid should be
awarded the contract as long as it is responsive. Yet, the law also allows
awarding contracts to the second lowest bidder as long as the price is
within 3% of the lowest bid.
(d)    Prior registration of bidders is required.



- 107 -
(e)    Price adjustments for materials are allowed only when changes of more
than 15% have occurred.
(f) Hiring of consultants is treated in exactly the same manner as that of con-
tractors (i.e. by public bids). However, direct contracting of technical consul-
tants is allowed.
(g)    Three bids are required to award a contract.
(h)    The following are usually treated in a manner unsatisfactory to the Bank:
(1) site visits are mandatory; (2) bids are submitted in two or three enve-
lopes that separate out requirements and items; (3) bid, and payment cur-
rencies are not treated appropriately.
14.   LCB bidding documents lack specificity on evaluation criteria and do not use the
concept of the "lowest evaluated bid," and they do not provide for the participation of
foreign bidders.
15.   Although approved previously by the Bank ICB bidding documents used in Bank
projects"6 contain unsatisfactory treatment of certain items. An effort to follow Bank
requirements is evident; yet, the documents contain the following unacceptable items:
(a)    only joint ventures of two or more firms are allowed to bid;
(b)   two or three envelopes that are opened simultaneously are required;
(c)   all bidders must be registered;
(d)    documents submitted by foreign bidders must be protocolized by the
Paraguayan consul in the foreign country and the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs;
(e)    bid evaluation criteria were vague;
(f) all labor, except managers and some technical staff, has to be Paraguayan;
(g)    bid and payment currency are inconsistently specified and not in agree-
ment with Bank guidelines;
(h)   the price adjustment formula for local costs was incorrect, and the price
adjustment formula for foreign costs was left up to the bidder; and
(i) all cement has to be of local origin.
16/  For instance, those for works in MOPC's ICB No. 3 of September 1991, Loan
2087-PA, for the Camino Troncal de Todo Tiempo, Desarrollo Rural Caazapa.



- 108 -
C. Special Provision to be Included in the Loan Documents
16.   In view of the above discrepancies and the treatment of items in a manner contra-
dictory to Bank practice, the following special provision should be stated explicitly in the
loan documents, that:
(a)    foreign consultants or contractors should not be required to enter into
joint venture agreements with local consultants or contractors as a condi-
tion for submitting proposals or bids, neither should they be required to
register prior to bidding;
(b)    foreign consultants or contractors should not be required to legalize their
proposals or bidding documents and supporting documents either at Para-
guayan consulates or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a condition for
proposing or bidding;
(c)    no minimum number of bidders should be necessary for competitive bids
to take place, and no minimum number of responsive bids should be
required to award a contract;
(d)    contracts should be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid;
(e)    contract prices should be adjustable according to the yearly change in
prices during the life of the contract, regardless of the amount of the
change;
(f) contractors shall be free to procure materials and labor necessary to carry out
the contract according to their best judgment and not necessarily in the local
market or from local suppliers; and,
(g)    foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate on an equal footing in local
competitive bids.



- 109-
ANNEX I1
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment
1.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.1     The Eighth Highway Project includes the construction, rehabilitation and/or
improvement of the (i) Paraguarf-ItA-Guarambar&-Ypanl-Nemby-Cuatro Mojones, (ii)
Cuatro Mojones-Madame Lynch- Junction to Route 9, and a. Limpio-Emboscada road
sections. The project is designed to address severe congestion problems, pedestrian and
vehicle safety, and road capacity problems.
1.2     The proposed works traverses urban, suburban, semi-rural and rural areas and
have different design characteristics. The following table summarizes the nature of the
proposed improvements and of the surrounding areas.
SECTION               SUBSECTION             PROPOSED WORK             AREA CATEGORY
Pareguarf-Iti-Ypan0-  Paraguarf-lti          Reinforeement of existing  Rural except municipalities
fRemby-Custro Mojo-                          road                     traversed
Ita-Ytoror6           New road.                 Rural
Ytororb-hemby         Improvement of existing   Semi-rural to semi-urban
road
Remby-Cuatro Mojones   Widening to 4 lanes      Suburban to urban
Cuatro Mojones-Ma-    Cuatro Mojones-Eu-     Widening to 4 lanes, via-  Urban
dane Lynch-Junction    sebio Ayala           ducts
Route 9
Eusebio Ayala-Av.     Widening to 4 lanes, recon-
Santa Terem           utction of Mmne. Lynch
drainage canal, bicycle path
Santa Terem-Aviadores   Widening to 4 lanes recon-
del Chaco             struction of Mme.Lynch
drainage canal, bicycle path
Aviadores del Chaco-  Widening to 4 lanes, bicy-
Junction Route 9       cle path
Uirpio-Emboacada      Linpio- Embosceda      Paving of existing road   Urban within the munici-
palities at both ends, 50%
of section in between erni-
rural, rest is rural
1.3     The roadworks in the project will substantially increase the traffic capacity of the
roads and its consequent pedestrian and vehicular dangers, its effects on the natural and
social environment and increase pollution. However they will also encourage local and
regional economic activity, particularly by facilitating access to the city and its services,
improve access to the ports for exports, improve accessibility to the wholesale market
located along the ringroad, and to Asuncion's bus terminal located near Cuatro Mojones.



- 110 -
Traffic from and to the country's western and southern regions and to Argentina will
considerably improve. Most importantly traffic in and around the city will improve
considerably, commuting times will be shortened and traffic overall will be made more
reliable.
2.    BASE LINE
Natural environment
2.1   The study area is situated within the following limits: North: 250 04', South: 25
40', East: 570 02', and West: the Paraguay River.
Physical environment
Geology and geomorphology
2.2   The area's belongs to the Ordovician-Silurian, Cretaceous, Tertiary and Quaterna-
ry periods, with some Pre-Cambrian outcroppings. The Ordovician-Silurian formations
are the sandstones of Paraguarf, Cerro JhLI, Eusebio Ayala, Cariy and the micaceous
leucites of Vargas Pefla. The Cretaceous formations are the intrusive alkaline rocks of
Sapucai and the conglomerates of Patifho. The Tertiary formation is the so-called Nem-
by, made up of basic intrusive rocks. The Quaternary formation consists of sandstones
accumulated in the area influenced by the Paraguay River and its tributaries. The Pre-
Cambrian granite outcrops constitute the area's crystalline base.
2.3   The area's geomorphology is generally the result of subsidence and upthrust, as
well as folding with stepped faults running chiefly NW-SE and subsequent sedimentary
deposits.
Climate
2.4   The average annual temperature is 22.5C., with the highest and lowest on record
being 42C and 0C. Average annual rainfall is 1,400 mm with rainy summers and drier
winters. Average annual potential evapotranspiration is 1,200 mm (according to Thorn-
thwaite, for the period 1951-80). Average annual surface run-off, for the same period,
is 400 mm. The humidity index (according to Thornthwaite) is 20, which represents the
cross-over from subhumid to humid. Prevailing winds are S-SW.
Hydrography
2.5   The area belongs to the watershed of the left bank of the Paraguay River, on the
sub-basin of Lake Ypacaraf, one of the region's most important in terms of capacity and
characteristics. The area's predominant hydrographic system is of the dendritic and
meandrotic type, with hydrological regimes much altered by intensive urbanization
associated with human settlement. Some cases involve considerable sedimentation and
others severe erosion. The area's most important watershed is that of the Salado River,
followed by the CaafAab6 Creek watershed. Both empty into the Paraguay River. The
remaining creeks all belong to small watersheds whose waters flow directly into the
Paraguay River.
2.6   Pollution by various agents, among them industrial and residential waste discharg-
es, and the spread of agricultural contaminants have left watercourses biologically degrad-
ed.



- 111 -
Biological environment
2.7   The area supports a bioenvironment of the thermo-mesophyte type, consisting of
trees growing in stands and irregular and heterogeneous groups which alternate with
clearings and meadows and cultivated fields. The woods are transitional between the
formations of the Central Forest (eastern region) and the flood plain of the Paraguay
River (western region).
2.8   The types of natural communities present in the area are lagoons, swamps, tide-
lands, semicaducifoliate woods (average and low), savannas, rivers, streams and headwa-
ters. The area's flora and fauna are much the same as those of the Chaco. Specific
habitats such as extensive wetlands and lagoons harbor many aquatic species.
Human environment
Paraguarf-Ita
2.9   Semi-rural, tending to urban. Includes the culturally historic (colonial and post-
colonial) towns of Yaguar6n and Paraguarf. The construction will not affect properties
physically, but it does not attempt to correct present trouble spots that endanger life and
property such as the curves at kms 43 and 50-51 and the Yaguard bridge. The risk of
accidents at these curves is high, with an expected average rate of 1.5 accidents per
month.
2.10   Surveys of the population indicate that 72% live in their own properties, 1% on
leased property and 23% are occupiers of someone else's property. Of 145 properties
surveyed, 80% are used as dwellings, 1% as commercial businesses, 11% as combined
dwellings and commercial businesses, 1% have industrial use and 5% have agricultural
use. 'Te occupational structure of heads of household shows that 37 % engage in agricul-
tural activity, 4% in brick-making, 4% in trade, 1% in industry, 41% in personal servic-
es and 14% in miscellaneous independent activities.
2.11   A total of 73% of properties have electric power, 7% have generators and 18%
have alternative sources. 15% have public water supply, 63% have wells and 21% rely
on other sources of water. There is no public sewer system. 95% of properties are
equipped with septic tanks, pit latrines or sanitary latrines.
2.12   The population does not show opposition to the project; only 4% states that it
would not be willing to amicably negotiate a settlement for the property that is taken
from them. A fair compensation is expected by 43%; of these, 11 % voice a desire to
obtain another property in the area, 6% would leave voluntarily if paid, while 25%
would stay on their property.
Ita - Ytoror6
2.13   The Ita - Ypane section of the road is rural in the Ypane - Ytoror6 section is
semi-rural. The rural sector has low population density and few basic services. Some
large and medium-sized properties coexist with small agricultural plots. The large and
medium-sized operations are generally dairies and brick factories. Brick manufacturing
is an important sources of work and income for the people of the area. The new segment
will mainly affect small properties, whose dwellers will have to be relocated.



- 112 -
Ytororo - Nemby
2.14  This is a mostly urban section with low population and structural density. How-
ever, the few empty spaces currently available are in process of urbanization with a trend
towards higher density settlements. Three properties are affected with three houses in
them, also the Ytoror6 National Park would be affected. The section has some accident-
prone spots, one of which is the bridge over the Ytoror6 creek. Land-use is urban except
for a ranch and the Ytoror6 National Park, this includes miscellaneous commercial
businesses 69% of properties; industries 5%; services, 3%; and educational, religious and
recreational institutions 1 %; unused structures are 13% of properties and unfinished
structures 4%.
Nemby - Cuatro Mojones
2.15  The section, including the town of Nemby, is mostly urban. The latter is densely
populated and merges into Asunci6n. The project will affect 26 properties, 25 of them
residential and a soccer field. Indirectly it would affect another 13 properties which
would now be farther away from the main route (11 commercial businesses, one ware-
house and one petrol station).
2.16  The population affected sees the project as necessary, because of the current
dangers of accidents on the road. This sector and the one from Paf Rd to the edge of the
Coca Cola factory are critically congested as traffic ties up and accidents occur on two
bridges built on curves. Most of the 26 properties affected are part of a neighborhood
with slum-like features but a social cohesiveness that will be disrupted by the new road.
Cuatro Mojones - Junction Rte.9
2.17  This is the ringroad section of the project. It is fully urbanized, and the project
would directly impact 988 frontage properties of which 29% will be physically affected
by the new road-line. 61% of all properties affected properties (directly and indirectly)
and 57% of all frontage properties are used for commercial activities. Of theses activi-
ties, 72 % are businesses of which the Asuncidn wholesale market as the largest. Unused
and idle properties account for 10% of the total, and 30% are rented out.
2.18   Dwellings are 46% of the properties affected. Of these, 54% are occupied by
their owners and 30% by tenants, the remaining 16% are occupied by family members,
caretakers, or simply occupants. Of the dwelling units, 60% have brick walls, 94% have
tile roofs and 78% have a calcareous floor.
2.19  There is electricity in 97% of the properties and 51 % have running water. There
is no public sewerage system in the area. Waste water disposal is available in 17% of
the properties. the remaining 83 % disposes of sewage by dumping it into the adjoining
canal and onto the road.
2.20   Of the population affected, 77% believes the area has serious environment prob-
lems. 55% of the population has lived in the area for more than five years, and 13%
were born there. Of those living there less than five years, 58% are tenants, 22.5% of
whom have been in there for less than a year. These figures reflect a highly mobile
population, especially among the tenant group. Average family size is 3.5 persons, 4.5
for non-owners.



- 113 -
2.21   24% of the dwellings have two bedrooms and the average number of residents
per unit is 3.9, which shows there is no overcrowding in the area. 9% of household
heads have higher academic education, 16% have mid-level education and 75% have just
basic education.
2.22  The socio-communal profile of the area is that of a configuration of neighbor-
hoods whose populations interact with adjoining municipalities. The lack of public
hygiene in the sectors adjoining the creek may be indicative of a lack of identification
with the locale, with resulting aggression against the environment. The population
accepts the road construction as beneficial and agrees with the project design; however,
they would want safeguards for the safety of pedestrians and cyclists (walkways, bicycle
paths) and to ease access to crowded areas like the wholesale market and the East Ceme-
tery. The taking of properties under eminent domain is understood and there is little
resistance to negotiating with MOPC and moving out of the area if necessary. Only 10%
of affected household heads say they would not move, 69% of them are owners. Affect-
ed individuals mosdy just want a fair price for the property taken. Of those responding,
4% state that they would leave the area on their own account, 65% of these respondents
are owners.
2.23  The engineering design of the section was found to have the following technical
and social shortcomings: (i) inadequate provisions to facilitate safe vehicular and pedestri-
an movements, and (ii) the bicycle path was not connected to the final and usual destina-
tion of cyclists,
2.24  The population of the area was generally ill informed on how their interests were
being safeguarded. The fact that 20% to 70% of the properties will be affected and
hence acquired will require many people to relocate, this most declared to be willing to
do voluntary.
Limpio - Emboscada
2.25  The section varies in terms of physical and geographic features, population
density, basic services and land use. There is a definitely urban portion of the section,
a suburban, a semi-rural and a rural portion of its, with the latter two predominating.
The urban portions are at the two extremes of the section, the semi-rural portions, most
of what is in between the two extremes, are small concentrations of people. Few services
are available to the inhabitants of the area, and land use is predominantly residential.
They constitute frontage and linear 'islands of settlement" surrounded by cattle raising
ranches.
2.26  The rural portions of the sections are thinly populated with little construction and
have few or no services. Extensive cattle raising properties predominate. A total of 23
properties will be affected, and then only in the town of Emboscada. Of these, two are
frontage properties on the current road in the town center, and twenty-one are properties
located in the area of a new city by-pass. In this area there is a school, which would
front the road and exposed students to exhaust emissions and traffic hazards.
2.27   Of the 23 properties affected, 83% are owner-occupied, 9% are leased and 8%
are otherwise occupied. Of the properties affected, 65% have dwellings in them, 22%
are combined dwellings and businesses, and 13% are unused. Public water supply serves
78% of the properties, electric power 74%, and sanitary waste removal 81%. There is
no public sewerage system.



- 114-
2.28   Of household heads 39% have mid-level academic training and 61% basic school-
ing. Average family size is 4.5 persons.
2.29  The population accepts the project, 96% believe it will have positive effects.
43% would amicably settle a fair compensation for the properties taken, but 9% of
resident owners say they would rather receive an equivalent property outside the area in
compensation. However, if compensated in cash no affectee would leave the area. 26%
would remain on their property if that property is not totally expropriated. This attitude
is an indication of how attached residents feel to their property.
2.30  The project would change the character of the town of Emboscada from a "quiet
and traditional village" into a "dormitory town."
3.    EVALUATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Methodology
3.1    A Leopold matrix type of analysis was taken as the working foundation. It was
adapted on the basis of the methodological guidelines prepared by the Ministry of Public
Works and Urban Development of Spain (General Directorate of Environment) and of
the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook of the World Bank. The overall evaluation
done was a first level, or macroevaluation, to locate the work in the general context of
the resources, uses and activities of the areas of impact.
3.2   The methodology employed consisted of the following successive steps:
(a) Identification of the principal current actions (without the project) and those
derived from the project (during and after its implementation);
(b) Identification and characterization of the principal conditions of the medium
susceptible to modification by the previous actions, based on three sets of condi-
tions: physical, bio-ecological and socio-econo-cultural;
(c) Identification of the crossing points in a base matrix, i.e., of the concrete
conditions - from among all those possible - in which each action would have
potential measurable impacts, whatever they might be;
(d) Determination of the possible magnitude of the modifications, in matrices
section by section, on the basis of a scale from -5 to +5 (from "very high nega-
tive magnitude" to "very high positive magnitude," the intermediate values being
graduated as follows: high (4), moderate (3), light (2) and very light (1). Zero
signifies "nonexistence of crossing point," i.e., the action has no impact on the
condition;
(e) Determination of the overall self-weighted average impacts by the weight of
each set of conditions of the average in each highway section, conducted in the
same matrices as previously indicated;
(f) Analysis of the average overall impacts, at the level of each section, identify-
ing the incremental impacts in the presence of the project as compared with the
current situation;



- 115 -
(g) Identification of the set of conditions of the setting most impacted positively
in each section, with the project as a given, and a list of the principal actions that
contribute that type of impact;
(h) Determination of at least two sets of conditions of the setting that are most
impacted negatively in each section - with the project as a given - in order to
incorporate the Mitigation Plan into them;
(i) Determination, within each group of conditions of the setting identified in the
previous item, of those actions of the project that produce the most important
negative impacts, in order to design measures for mitigating them;
0) Description of the negative impacts by importance, likelihood, time period,
duration and type of alterations caused to the physical, biological and human
environment;
(k) Ranking of impacts according to likelihood, time at which they would begin
to occur, importance and duration;
(1) Identification of mitigation measures, section by section and impact by im-
pact, according to the condition of the setting affected and the component of the
project giving rise to them.
3.3   The matrices were prepared for relatively homogeneous sections of the roads.
This led to, for example, subdividing the ItA - Nemby section in order to separate the
portion of new road construction from that on which only reconstruction would be done.
The following sections were used:
(A) Paraguarf - Ita (rural section of the southern access road to Asunci6n)
(B) ItA - Ytoror6 (a new section of the southern access to Asunci6n)
(C) Ytoror6 - Nemby (rural section of southern access to Asuncion)
(D) Nemby - Cuatro Mojones (a rural-suburban section of southern access)
(E) Cuatro Mojones - Junction Rte.9 (an urban section)
(F) Limpio - Emboscada (a rural section of northern access to Asunci6n)
3.4   The main report contains a summary of characteristics by section according to
conditions at the present time, during project implementation (including the preoperation-
al phases) and after project completion.
Overall assessment - Results
3.5    Matrices were prepared section by section, for the current situation (prior to the
project) and for the situation following the project (operational phase), as they appear in
the main report. For the purpose of comparing the two situations (before and after the
project), the incremental values of the impacts were determined for each set of condi-
tions, in order to evaluate how the project improves or worsens the situation overall. A
summary was prepared by extracting the most striking conclusions: these are summarized
in the following discussion and table on the following page.



- 116-
Section A Paraguarf - Ita
3.6     Seventy-five possible impacts of the project on environmental conditions were
identified. Sixty-one percent of the impacts were socio-econo-cultural, 25% physical and
13% as bio-ecological. The current (no project) situation shows a negative overall
situation: slightly negative in terms of physical conditions and very slightly so in terms
of bio-ecological conditions. The situation with the project shows a very slight decreases
in the negative impacts on the physical and socio-econo-cultural conditions. The overall
effect of the project on the socio-environmental conditions is neutral, as a number of
harmful environmental effects of the current situation are being removed by the project.
The actual overall effect may even turn out to be very slightly positive (a score of + 1).
Average Envitonmental Impact Before and Aflter the Project
Incremental Impact of the Project on Each Environmental Condition
Condition
Road Sec-    Physical Envi-    Bio-Ecologic    Socio-Economic-   Total
tion        ronment       Environment    Culturl Environ-     Scote
mont
Cros-over points    A             19              10               46              75
B            20              25               50              95
C             19              10              39               68
D             19              12              42               73
E            20               15              62              97
F            19              24               43              S6
Average Impact      A             -2              -I                0               -I
Before the Pro-     B              0               0                0               0
ject                 C             -I              -1               0               -I
D             -I             -1                0               -1
E            -2              -I               -I              -1
F            -2              -1                0               -1
Averge Impact       A             -1              -1               + I              0
After the Project   B             -3              -3                0               -1
C             -1             -1                0               -I
D             -2             -3                0               -1
E             -3             -3                0               -I
F            -2              -3               + I              -1
Incremental Im-     A             +1               0               +I              +I
pact                B             -3              -3                0               -I
C             0               0                0               0
D             -I             -2                0               0
E             -1             -2               +1              +1
F             0               -2              +1              +2
Source: Fomgro-Pareic, matrices in Appendix 4 of Environmental Impact Study
Section B Ita - Ytorord
3.7     Ninety-five possible impacts were identified, 53%  of them were socio-economic-
cultural, 26% bio-ecological and 21% physical in nature. The current (no project)
situation is neutral across the board, for the simple reason that the road does not exist.
The situation with the project shows moderately negative physical and bio-ecological
impacts. In the socio-econo-cultural field positive and negative impacts cancel each other
out, bringing about an overall neutral result. All in all, the project as planned may have
a very slightly negative total impact (-1).



- 117 -
Section C Ytororo - Nemby
3.8   Sixty-eight possible impacts were identified, 57% of them were socio-econo-
cultural, 28% physical and 15% bio-ecological. This section is the one with the least
varied impacts. The current (no project) situation shows a very slightly negative situation
overall, of a physical and bio-ecological nature. The situation with the project does not
show significantly increased negative impacts. Overall, negatives and positives cancel
each other out with a very slightly negative (-1) general impact.
Section D Nemby-Cuatro Mojones
3.9   Seventy-three possible impacts were identified along this section, 58% of them
socio-economic-cultural, 26% physical and 16% bio-ecological. The current (no project)
overall situation is very slightly negative primarily in the physical and bio-ecological
areas. The situation with the project would slight improve the bio-ecological situation
and very slight improve the physical aspects. The with project condition would otherwise
be neutral, with negative and positive impacts canceling each other out as in the previous
road section. The overall impact of the project may be very slightly negative (-1).
Section E Cuatro Mojones - Junction Rte.9
3.10   Ninety-seven possible impacts were identified, 64% were socio-econo-cultural,
21% physical and 15% bio-ecological. This section has the highest number of cross-over
points in the matrix, i.e., impacts of human activities on the environment. The overall
current (no project) situation is slightly to very slightly negative across the board. This
assessment obviously does not take into account the original alterations created by the
occupation of the area, which is now over. The situation with the project would become
slight worse bio-ecologically and very slight worse physically. The project is shown not
to worsen the socio-econo-cultural situation (positive and negative impacts offset each
other). The overall impact of the project may be very slightly negative (-1).
Section F Limpio - Emboscada
3.11   Eighty-six possible impacts were identified, 50% were socio-econo-cultural, 28%
bio-ecological and 22% physical. The current (no project) situation shows is slightly
negative, basically of a physical and bio-ecological nature. The project would deteriorate
the negative bio-ecological situation only. There would be no physical effect, and the
socio-econo-cultural impacts would be very slightly positive. The overall effect of the
project may be very slightly negative.
4.  LEGAL FRAMEWORK
General framework
4.1    The country has no specific expropriation law, but various provisions embodied
in a number of statutes frame the concept of "social interest," "public interest" or "social
usefulness," thus providing a basis for expropriating land on eminent domain grounds.
Similarly, agreements between parties are thus legislated, including mechanisms for
acquiring land for public interest reasons either amicably or in cases when this approach
fails to materialize.
4.2    Article 109 of the Constitution is the main provision in this area. Of recent
enactment (1992), it did not superseded older laws but calls for their reinterpretation,



- 118 -
which in some cases would entail the enactment of supplementary rules. The following
overview groups the existing jurisprudence under the headings of general, special and
enforcement laws.
General provisions
4.3   These are in the Constitution, the Administrative Law, the Civil Code, the Rural
Code and Law 40/54 partially amending it. Analysis of the constitutional provisions
indicates that private property is guaranteed and can be taken only by judicial order or
by expropriation; expropriations have to be compensated prior to the taking of possession
by the expropriator; and the compensation must be agreed upon by the parties or else
determined by judicial adjudication.
4.4   The Administrative Law sets out the conditions governing acquisitions and expro-
priations (Art. 222). These provisions are supplemented by those in the Civil Code with
respect to the rules for purchase and sale, ownership, fair compensation, the expropriated
party's right of appeal and related matters. The Rural Code as amended by Law 40/54
explicitly refers to expropriations for the purpose of carrying out road projects. The
Constitution repeals several provisions of the Rural Code as they reflect new thinking and
changing times.
Special provisions
4.5   There are special provision on the subject of land acquisitions and/or expropria-
tion in the Municipal Organic Law, in Law 75/69 which redefined the Directorate of
Roads, in the Forestry Law 422/73, as well as in the Corposana, ANDE, Railroad, IBR
and Agrarian Laws.
4.6   The Municipal Organic Law regulates the expropriation of buildings intended for
urban development projects. This law also establishes relevant administrative procedures.
The National Directorate of Roads Law of 1968, as amended by Law 75/69, empowers
the directorate to occupy, and/or authorize the occupation of properties declared of social
need, and empowers the Ministry of Works to expropriate the lands. The provision,
however, can only be exercised after compensation has been determined and paid.
4.7   The CORPOSANA (244/54), ANDE (966/64), Railroads (1079/64), IBR (852/)
and Agrarian (854/63) laws contain provisions pertaining to expropriation and generally
set the rules relevant thereto.
Enforcement provisions
4.8   Decrees 10.025/60, 14.171/52, 18.000/66 and 19.983/56, Resolution 253/75, and
Decree-Law 288/61 provide the following elements: (i) they define "social utility" and
permit the expropriation of lands and plots for road construction; (ii) they authorize
MOPC to occupy and take possession of lands expropriated; (iii) they require the drawing
up of a plat and obligate owners to submit their deeds to determine the value of their
property; (iv) they allow the expropriator to use forestry resources. However, many of
the elements contained in these laws are not applicable today without further interpreta-
tion, because the new Constitution has cast a different light on them. Moreover, Decree
14.171 and Resolution 253 has imposed further limits on owners' rights over property
which, though not expropriated, is contiguous to roads.



- 119 -
Sequence of expropriation procedures
4.9    A draft bill " Bill on the Expropriation of the Ringroad" is attached to the main
environmental report. It was drafted to indicate the tenor of the enabling legislation
necessary to expropriate the lands and plots necessary for this project.
4.10  In the annex to this report is a flow chart of administrative procedures which,
according to current legislation, must be followed to expropriate lands and plots.
5.    MITIGATION PLAN
Methodology
5.1    The elements of the mitigation plan were established from comparing the project's
positive and negative impacts and identifying which project activities and actions generat-
ed those impacts. Positive impacts will flow as soon as the new roads are opened and
they will impact principally the socio-economic-cultural situation in the project area. The
relevant matrices show no less than 90% of the total positive impacts for each section to
fall within that area. Negative impacts were analyzed in terms of:
(a) Type of damage or alteration;
(b) Extent of the impact, defined as minor, moderate or major;
(c) Probability of the event occurring defined as certain, probable or improbable;
(d) Duration of the impact, defined as temporary or permanent; and
(e) When the impact would begin defined as short-term, medium-term or long-
term.
General mitigatory measures
5.2    A section-by-section mitigation plan was prepared for the project based on the
above considerations and findings. The plan was conceived with the following in mind,
that: (i) preventive or corrective measures are established in order to lessen the negative
impacts, and in some cases to strengthen the positive ones; (ii) the preventive or correc-
tive measures are incorporated in the final design of the project, scaling and redesigning
the works accordingly; and (iii) in order to optimize costs and benefits, the plan is tai-
lored to the importance, magnitude, likelihood, and duration of the impacts.
5.3    Mitigatory measures of a global character, intended to be implemented mainly
during the construction stage and which were not aimed at specific issues on specific road
sections were developed as modifications to the General Environmental Specifications and
are described in detail in the annex of the main report. Mitigatory measures of a specific
character linked to specific sections of the project are detailed in Chapter V Section 3 of
the main report and are described below in the form of actions to be taken according to
chronogram that starts with the initiation of the construction works.



- 120 -
SECTION A Paraguarf-ItA
5.4   The project is scheduled for completion in 30 months, five semesters. Mitigatory
measures, semester by semester would include the following:
3rd. semester Introduce erosion control measures at points on section where risk is
highest, as work progress dictates, deepen the section of the Yaguaron
and Paranambd creeks 300 meters on both sides of the project bridge, and
clean the canal periodically;
4th. semester Enlarge and improve the area in front of the Church of Yaguar6n to
provide visitor parking; regulate the size and placement of commercial
billboards and company signs at formal and informal shopping areas and
adequately signal the presence of shopping areas; install a raised median
20 cm high and 1.5 meters wide from one end to the other of the city of
Yaguar6n;
5th. semester Post warning signs at black spots along the road and install rumble strips
at entry and exit of all urban areas; determine areas on which vending
stalls will not be allowed near the road; install rumble strips at regular
intervals all along the shoulder; install signs and rumble strips in each
direction of the road 100 m to the entrance to the Church of Yaguardn;
install a safety barrier at the curve by the Church of Yaguar6n; build
shelters at public transport stops; restore and maintain green cover on the
slopes of embankments; install lighting along the section of road passing
through the town of Yaguar6n;
6th. semester Post signs at bus stops; post signs indicating the beginning and end of
urban and suburban areas, speed limits and the town's most important
public services; make vehicle exhaust emissions and noise subject to
control by the highway police; restore green cover in areas with active
erosion; clean drains until replanting takes hold at run-off points;
SECTION B Itg - Ytoror6
5.5    The construction project is scheduled for completion in 30 months, five semes-
ters. Mitigation measures and their implementation schedules are given below:
1st. semester  Re-survey all properties along the existing roads 500 meters on each side
of the line to adjust the proposed line to existing property limits and keep
it along existing roads and thus minimize breaking-up farms and dwell-
ings; process at the earliest opportunity the appraisal of lands to be ac-
quired and/or expropriated, to minimize the uncertainties created by the
procedures; identify the families that may have to be relocated and make
available to them: (i) information on alternative properties in and outside
the area through an agreement between MOPC and the municipalities and
between MOPC and IBR; (ii) assistance with institutions handling reques-
ts for housing under MOPC's agreements with CONAVI and with grass-
roots organizations; (iii) information on assistance from institutions offer-
ing job training under a MOPC-SNPP agreement; (iv) 50% financing of
moving costs (agreement involving MOPC and agencies); regulate that
woods of any type to be felled as a result of the road construction in the
corridor shall be confined strictly to the width of the right of way mini-



- 121 -
mizing alterations to the surrounding areas; cut and stack any timber
extracted for use by the expropriated owners, as a marginal form of
compensation; during the earth-moving period engage the services of an
archaeologist through the Directorate of Cultural Property (with expertise
in historical areas of the War of 1870);
2nd. semester Signpost the access to the Ytoror6 Historical Monument and the Ytorord
Country Club recreational area;
3rd. semester Contain the run-off and erosion at downhill intersections with local roads;
4th. semester Place wire fencing, paid for by the project, at the boundary between the
right of way and properties;
5th. semester Replant unpaved portions of the corridor with a gradient of more than
5%, or where cuts and fills are built; where embankments are built or
cuts more than 100 m long are made, replant with trees and shrubs that
will help to partially restore the environment and diminish the barrier
effect on the fauna; plant trees in the vicinity of recreation areas;
6th. semester Make vehicle exhaust emissions and noise subject to control by the high-
way police.
SECTION C  Ytororo - Nemby
5.6   The construction period is scheduled for 30 months, five semesters. Mitigation
measures and their implementation schedules are given below:
1st. semester Proceed quickly with the appraisal of lands and properties to be acquired
or expropriated to expedite the process and minimize the uncertainty
created by it; identify the families that may have to relocated and assist
them through a unit specifically created for that purpose under MOPC-
CONAVI agreements (MOPC and agencies included in an agreement with
MOPC); identify parking areas, design bus shelters, place signs at pedes-
trian crossings and vehicular turns;
4th. semester Install erosion control devices where risk are high;
5th. semester Restore and maintain green cover on the slopes of embankments; install
a raised median 0.20 meters high and 1.5 meters wide from one end to
the other of the town of Nemby and at least 100 m along the access to the
port of San Antonio; post signs at bus stops;
6th. semester Make vehicle exhaust emissions and noise subject to control by the high-
way police; plant trees along the sections of the route passing through
populated areas and create small, dense stands at the edge of the corridor,
especially at the Nemby entrance and exit; post signs at black spots and
install rumble strips on the access to Nemby and at the intersection of the
road to San Antonio; determine areas at which vending stalls will be
banned; regulate the size, frequency and placement of commercial signs
and billboards; signpost the presence of shopping areas; install lighting
along the section of road passing through the town of Nemby and on the
accesses to San Antonio; install rumble strips at regular distances all



- 122 -
along the shoulder; post signs to alert drivers to their presence in an
urban area and indicating speed limits and the town's most important
public services.
SECTION D Nemby - Cuatro Mojones
5.7   The construction project is scheduled for completion in 30 months, five semes-
ters. Mitigation measures and their implementation schedules are given below:
1st. semester Identify parking areas, design bus shelters, locate pedestrian crossings
and vehicular turns; in accordance with the register of properties affected
by the road, proceed promptly with the appraisal of land and dwellings
in them, to minimize the uncertainty created by the process; identify the
families that may have to be relocated because and advise them of assis-
tance provided them through the MOPC-CONAVI desks and tell them of
the help and information on alternative properties available through the
MOPC-Municipalities, MOPC-IBR, MOPC-CONAVI and MOPC-grass-
roots desks;
2nd. semester Install wire fencing, paid for by the project, at the boundary between the
right of way and properties;
4th. semester Install erosion control devices where risks are high along the route, espe-
cially at points with a gradient of more than 5%, consistent with progress
in construction; regulate size, frequency and placement of commercial
signs and billboards;
5th. semester Install raised median 0.20 meters high and 1.5 meters wide from one end
to the other of the town of Nemby and at least 100 m along the intersec-
tions with built-up residential areas; install lighting along the section of
road passing through the town of Nemby; define and signpost bus stops;
install rumble strips at regular distances all along the shoulder; restore
green cover in areas showing signs of active erosion; clean drains at run-
off points showing signs of active erosion until replanting is completed;
restore and maintain grass cover on the slopes of embankments; widen
the median strip between lanes in opposite directions to 1.5 meters, and
provide pedestrian crossings at intersections and a hedgegrow barrier with
species no higher than 1.2 meters; plant trees on sections passing through
populated areas and create small, dense stands at the edge of the right of
way, especially at the entrance and exit of the town of Nemby; plant trees
of medium height on both sides of the road at the edge of the right of
way alternating with tall shrubs that tolerate shade; install rumble strips
at the Nemby town limits; define areas in which vending stalls will be
allowed;
6th. semester Make vehicle exhaust emissions and noise subject to control by the high-
way police;



- 123 -
SECTION E Cuatro Mojones - Junction Rte.9
5.8   The project is scheduled for completion in 36 months, six semesters. Mitigation
measures and their implementation schedule is given below:
1st. semester Appraise promptly land and dwellings; expropriate all of the property
when the owner claims not to be able to remain in his residence or carry
out his normal activities in what would remains of his property after
partial expropriation; finance 50% of the moving costs for relocatees;
expedite the expropriation process and provide relocation assistance; keep
those affected informed of the necessary formalities, the nature of the
project and assistance available through MOPC's special desk; identify
the families that may have to relocated and make the following available
to them: (i) information on alternative properties in and outside the area
by implementing the agreement between MOPC and the municipalities;
(ii) assistance with institutions handling requests for housing under
MOPC's agreements with CONAVI and with grassroots organizations;
and (iii) information and assistance from institutions offering job training
under the MOPC-SNPP agreement; properties that would be demolished
and those at risk should be identified and evaluated by the Directorate of
Cultural Property of MEC, to determine whether they possess historical
or cultural value that would justify their preservation or rescue; conduct
an environmental impact assessment of the effects of discharging runoff
waters on the Ytay and Lambare creeks;
5th. semester Plant trees of medium height on both sides of the route at the right of
way, alternating tall shrubs that tolerate shade, this would absorb and
reflect part of the vehicular emissions; plant shrubs no taller than 1.20 m
at appropriate points of the median; design and conduct an educational
campaign on road safety;
6th. semester Install signs to educate the public on urban environmental good manners;
make vehicle exhaust emissions and noise subject to control by the high-
way police; maintain the creek beds to ensure low levels of solid-waste
deposits.
SECTION F Limpio - Emboscada
5.9    Construction is scheduled for completion in 24 months, four semesters). Mitiga-
tory measures and their implementation schedules are given below:
1st. semester Regulate the felling of trees and restrict it to the right of way, enforce
minimizing the disturbance to adjoining areas; expedite the expropriation
process and minimize the uncertainty created by it; review and redesign
if necessary the drainage system in low-lying wetlands crossed by em-
bankments, replacing tubular drainpipes with trapezoidal section pipes;
3rd. semester Install erosion control devices where risks are high; install wire fencing,
paid for by the project, at the boundary of the right of way and neigh-
boring properties;
4th. semester Where embankments are built or cuts of more than 100 m are made,
replant with species of trees and shrubs that will help to partially restore



- 124 -
the environment this will diminish the barrier effect on fauna and prevent
erosion; install signs to educate and alert the public on ecosystems and
fauna protection; restore and maintain the grass cover on the slopes of
embankments; replant areas along the road where the gradient is more
than 5%, or where cut and fill is done; restore plant cover in areas with
active erosion; clean drains periodically until replanting is completed.
6.    FOLLOW-UP PLAN
6.1    The objective of the follow-up plan is to establish the operational and institutional
mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the mitigation plan. It is proposed to
monitor certain parameters and to follow-up with the institutions charged with applying
the mitigatory measures.
6.2    The parameters to be monitored were selected based on the types of mitigatory
measures proposed and for their ease of measurement. The periodic measurements or
evaluations will, with regard to physical and bio-ecological conditions, be conducted in
the corridor and its immediate impact area. With regard to socio-econo-cultural condi-
tions they will be conducted in a wider area (which will have to be defined for each road
section when the monitoring program is scheduled in detail). Accordingly, they have
been grouped in parameters connected to both major group of conditions of the socio-
environmental setting.
Parameters selected
6.3   Physical and bio-ecological:
Turbidity of run-off waters
Number of active erosion points and their size
Blockage of drainage structures (monitor servicing)
Design of drainage structures
Clearing (ensure that it is carried out in accordance with the guidelines covering
implementation and the handling and disposal of material removed)
Replanting at critical points (design, implementation and maintenance)
Planting of trees and shrubs (design, implementation and maintenance)
6.4   Socio-econo-cultural:
Rules governing commercial advertising (monitor their drafting, enactment and
enforcement)
Construction of engineering works included as mitigation measures (separators,
screens, lighting, washboard paving, parking areas, signs, fences, barriers, retain-
ing walls, etc.), and monitoring of their incorporation into the design, their
construction and their actual operation under the conditions for which they are
designed
Vehicle exhaust (monitor control by highway police, and draft, enact and enforce
standards)
Stops and vending sites (draw up and enforce rules governing them)
Registry, appraisal, expropriation formalities and relocation assistance (monitor
their scheduling and implementation)
Elimination and handling of construction waste (monitor implementation)
Correction and adjustment of road layout with respect to section B (monitor
design and implementation)



- 125 -
Implementation of follow-up
6.5   These parameters will be followed on each of the road sections in the project,
with the intensity and frequency appropriate to their relative importance. Each measure
will be implemented as scheduled in the mitigation plan. The agency for follow-up will
be the Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Works and Communications with the
assistance of other departments, especially for purposes of monitoring contractors.



- 126 -
PRIMERA ETAPA
IL II.O.P.C. SOLICITA AL CODGRESO
IA LZY NECEAIA
N.O.P.C.                                     _LAMOS DESCUtIPTUOS
PROY CSO UJIAL                          IWIEIISP _ l                Nroy  PROFESIOLES
-------   -------------------  IIACTO  NOLEMTALCATASThO
iFprgpiaclonr_  de dominlo                                                Todo  lo nricosoro  para
Priva,o, Urbanoo y Raraloe.                                               dete raner con uxactitud
la  co1 a   quo   ha   de
_ DlSCO DE liMlERIA              o,cpt 1arwoo
LECISLADOR
El n.O.P.C.   goatlon  -
traw_ del ?oder Ejoatl
antO el Congroo la Lay
flocomat.a.
DECLARACIO#4  DE   CAMIINO
|ACIOIAL.
LEY            _
| xtorizacboi    Callfbcacion.
Autourtza a un  poder      So Id stirie a
del Estado a  actuar       Indi bduab ba el
M. 0. P. C.                                               an tal on..bdn.          bamasbleo  na bwushto
a exproplar.
EL r.o.F.c REaLIZA LATASAACION
SEGUNDA   ETAPA                  V LANO TIFCACIOA EAL PROPlEOARN
M          P                  O             A    O.P. C.NI
s                    =   ~~~~~~HA siDO AuiJORIZADO POR EL
UJEaJTIVO PARA DEROPIAR
DEPARTIteIElTO
DE AUAZU10
PRLrD IOS URBOMO
2 ;~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~---  ASESOR;IA   UICA                                RESOLUCI0N WCr 
l--                              | ~~~~~~~~~DEL "Iti ISTERIO  P |    ON SU  DELZC^DO
0 StJ DELEGADO
PROP IXTAR 10
itu;&o dn propiidad del Ib;-u          MOTIICACION ADIiNISTRATIUA
Inxcrito on el Rogl-tro C-noral        Tle*pa colacionada a au
de la Propiodad.                       Aoleilbo tP.opledad oibjto
C.probanta do I.pueet   &I di..         Ao expropiacban).(DIA  ).
Cortificado de libr- gxra-an. o
libr- disponibliAd.
FProala tIbnicipal de "IfIcaclon,
on caso do Inbumbles.
L  SE PRXSZTA   |O St PRESET A
ITERCERA ETAPA



- 127 -
TERCERA ETAPA
-   NE-- OCH!?KAC ION
So of rta avaluo O icial  Al
proplot rlo.
pwjlaa          ' .
De CO     AaJuno                NO HAY COU       RW
Ac_up _ o _ _eta                 No acapta of  ta                   O SE PRESDTA
|   ItNISMI DE ::I~E         |JP^d    Ev
Notificacion  Judicial  a!
expropiado de la taxacion
Pago diracto        Pao Indirecto                      y del plaza para  reclaar
a l.pugnar la tamcion.
Ndaatizap.                           NOTIFICA
|Pus"e utorls r  | tSIr
poscoIon Inmdle t                    - Tasaclon.
- Pla*s para Impugnarla.
__________ __________ __________-  Conwignacion.
St  CSR I tURA                              - Aprcibini.uto.
- La trauufdrencla a fator del
Eatado dab, *or a trawm  del                                 PROPIETARIO
Esrmibano mayor del Gobl-rno.                           RECWL     A LA TASACIO#N
(Plaza 13 dl&)_
CUTIflICACION           FAJDIECIA SE D121I4A PE!-I
1 COIlI ERO LEN  DISCORDI 
SALDO 0 EL TOTAL 33 LA ~ ~   ~        ~        ~        ~        PEIT   INOW
(Plaz  re sl..
ALZSATOS DE BLMC* PRU1JA
(Plaza S Alas)
SENTEVC 1^A
(Plaa so 1   la-)
A LCATO Y OUIISCIOM<     H  [   RISJL   Su  eriorl                 
ZXPROPIANTE CO"s [GM EL                 (plaza la Alas)        At PELA - (Plaza   dia-)|
SALW O  E1Z TOTOIL DR LA  I
IPMDIZACION          |           SENTCIA DE AU
(Qlaxo'38 d la*)                   Q (l&x  46 4 lea)






- 129 -
ANNEX 12
PARAGUAY
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
A. General Material
1.    Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA); National Transport Master
Plan, Interim Report, March 1991
2.    Japanese International Cooperation Agency (ICA); National Transport Master
Plan, Draft Final Report, October 1991
3.    Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA); National Transport Master
Plan, Summary, January 1992
4.    SAE-CONTEC; Export Corridors Study, Vol. 1, 2, 3 and Annex, April 1991,
document No. 651014 A, B, C
5.    SAE-CONTEC; Traffic Study on the National Roads, October 1989, Document
No. G35508
6.    SAE-CONTEC; Study of the Revenues and Financing of National Roads, June
1991
7.    Orb and Medina; Diagnosis and Recommendations on Weighing Vehicles and
Charging for the Use of Roads in Paraguay, September 1991
8.    Ministry of Public Works and Communications; National Transportation Plan,
1987-1991, 1988-1992, 1989-1993, 1990-1994
9.    Ministry of Public Works and Communications; Design Norms for Rural Roads
10.   National Ports and Navigation Administration; Annual Report, 1990, 1991
11.   National Ports and Navigation Administration; Organization, Tariffs and Other
Legal Requirements, 1992
12.   National Ports and Navigation Administration; Decree 12499, Port Tariffs, 1992
13.   Barbosa-Roca, Carlos; Diagnosis of the Undersecretariat of Administration and
Finance of the Ministry of Public Works and Commnunications, June 1992
14.   Republic of Paraguay; Decree Law No.5/91 that establishes the structure and
functions of the Ministry of Public Works and Communications, March 1991
15.   Republic of Paraguay; Law No. 109/91 amending decree-law No.15/90 that
establishes the structure andfunctions of the Ministry of Finance, January 1992



- 130 -
16.   Ministry of Public Works and Communications; Budgetary Execution 1985-1992,
March 1993.
B. Project Snecific Material
1.    SAE-CONTEC; Techno-Economic Feasibility Study, San Lorenzo - Paraguart,
Final Report, December 1990
2.    SAE-CONTEC; Techno-Economic Feasibility Study, San Lorenzo - Paraguarf
including South Access to Asunci6n, Final Report, July 1991
3.    SAE-CONTEC; Techno-Economic Feasibility Study, Limpio - Emboscada - Ar-
royo y Esteros - Tacuara, Final Report, June 1991
4.    SAE-CONTEC; Techno-Economic Feasibility Study, South Access to Asunci6n,
Cuatro Mojones - Junction Rt.1, Final Report, June 1991
5.    FORAGRO-PARELC; Techno-Economic Feasibility Study, Cuatro Mojones -
Madame Lynch Ave. - Junction Rt.9, Final Report and Annexes, June 1992
6.    FORAGRO-PARELC; Estudio del Impacto Amblental del Tramo: Praguart -
Yaguar6n -ltd - Guarambare - Ypane -Aemby - Cuatro Mojones - Empalme Rta.9
- Llmpio - Emboscada, Resumen Ejecutivo, Informe Final, Anexos, Planos,
Mayo 1993.



- 131 -
Chart 1
|   OPC BINISTER
LEGAL- SERYENA
UNDIRSECTY          UNDERSECTRY                 UNDERSECTRY          UNDERSECTRY
PUEL C UORXS           TRANSPORT                ADBINISTRATN              NINE
CnnUNIC.                                     & FINANCE             & ENERGY
DIRECTOR            D1RtCTOR               DIRECTOR              DIRECTOR
HGEERAL       _     .8                     CONOnDI                NER6Y
RU8C.UX                                    PLANNING              IESOURDES
DiEC OR              D RECTOR              DIRE TOI
?DIRECOR              DIRECT R              DIRECTOR
DIEC OR                                    DIIECCOOS
DIRECTOR            DIIECPOI               DIRECTOR
_  ERERAL  _   R4F IC             4~RE  UCES!6_OT
DIRETOR  ,                    I~~~~DIRECTORI
TOURISM
L...FL






AP ,   '', .                   4 MOJONES - DEFENSORES DEL CHACO -
0 /  t~~  8_ o  OOwo oo  dMADAME LYNCH - ROUTE 9
UpgR.iooono  Poo.-d Rood, 
DETAX                                    -    N.. 2.L. EmRdo  Grodnl/or Sood  Roodc R d
.'-' \ . gSFE INSETv fi . FOR -DETAIL                                                                        WHoEAR          DL L M
4 /   _  R t  _         )    X E~_a f ,xN S E T   C   \ E . x                   A S U N C 16 }  P O R T                      A    e
@7\ 19-                                    G,-/Eth S  .. d R-& )                                                   L  L   Rtod
BOLIVIA                                 I   >"                                                                             L MOtEA
I   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 
I                                              I I       /                                             D*'w     S . ' \   2   o   o .
I           /  oo \ 0. I  OA070/e                                 '\     AX
To Encomoc;eSr irPOtOt;W  B   eNOT TO SC-ALE
'r   m      ir                 sr    \            ,sr ,/      ';      9       ~~~~~PARAGUARI - ITA -4 MOJONES
B ~    ~      ~      \    ro                                                                           AsuNa6 G'. \  JL 
C  H   A   C  0                                                                  Oil,eIor.q
,o~c..o. /- ! cceoo. oo                                                                                    so. Qooc~e   N~         '    o      -   to-  j
, ,   {            h      ot             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  A-           torl N2-1    NWo
jo.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%~--I.
/   2~~~~~ \                      | ~~~~~P A R A G U A Y                                         lb         A               \
N U VtA ANI ...ASUNCION                                                                 co
\vqrwo e *ffi> g Sff iS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,5                                                    <           M E R I C A 
\.   B O  Q  U E R O N                                 .s                   ,        _._               .<9                          (        {
Zr   a                      j         a                               , ~~~~~~~~~~ CONCEPCION   8  ;    5 t         r.          /
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTI
'lOs 00 Plo  T l /~
\ opSAN PEDROO                                                               ANINDEYU
P A R A G U A Y                                  b          \            i X               .      /    
EIGHTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PIIOJECT,
.RR. tEAWLITATE                                       FRDTI
EXIST..G,                                           SEE INSE
=I TIrumNOus SUtACA   ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION '
G DRAEI/EARTH SURFACED ROADS
RAILROADS
COUNTRY REGION DMWON                                     ,       ,A
DEPARTMENT ROUNDAIIES
INTERNATIONAL NOUNDARIES                                                                   APA
*OTI,l p10700 coo.pooeoN+                                                                                   /         8 
d.p.o.d o  e.=  A, R ood C.
)) \ Bt~~~~>> @Pi ~I T A  t4 
o  O~0  .00.0000o..00  e a '20 s00 /0o. -C U     r
70                        -U *.c  -r -    07 r0 OC    s0.0    ,.o0



