Page  1
April 19, 1999
His Excellency
Federico Zayas
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Asuncion, Paraguay
Re. (Eighth Highway Project) Ln. 3685-PA
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Eighth Highway Project) dated January 19, 
1994 between the Republic of Paraguay and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development. 
In response to the request from the Minister of Public Works and Communications 
and further discussions with representatives of the Ministry of Finance concerning 
such request, we agree to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 2.03 is amended to read:
“Section 2.03.  “The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later dates 
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.”.
2.
Section 3.03 is amended to read:
“Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement the Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) not later than "December 31, 
1998, complete the management study referred to in Part B.3 (a) (i) of the 
Project; (b) not later than January 31, 1999, review jointly with the Bank the 
recommendations of such study; (c) immediately thereafter, implement such 
recommendations which, in the opinion of the Bank and the Borrower are 
acceptable to achieve the objectives of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (d) not later than December 31, 1999, complete the implementation 
of such recommendations.”.
3.
The table set forth in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 3.04  is amended to read:
 “Amounts in Constant 1994 Guaraníes, millions
4.
The percentage of expenditures to be financed under Category (1) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read:
5.
Part A.6 of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 is amended to read:
“Improvement of unpaved rural roads by applying stabilizing agents to the test 
sections along such roads.”.
6.
Part B.1 of Section I of Schedule 4 is amended to read: 
“Works carried out under Part A.6 of the Project up to $1,200,000 equivalent in the 
aggregate may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured by directly negotiated 
contracts.”.
Page  2
7.   
Schedule 5 is amended to read as per Annex 1 to this Amendment letter.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by 
signing and returning to us the confirmation copy of this letter. Upon receipt by the 
Bank of the copy of this letter countersigned by you, this amendment will become 
effective as of the date first above written.
Very truly yours
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Director
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Confirmed:
Republic Of Paraguay
By /s/ Federico Zayas, 
Minister of Finance
Authorized Representative
Date:
May 17, 1999
