Page  1
July 27, 2000
His Excellency
Federico Zayas
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Asuncion, Paraguay
Re: PARAGUAY: (Eighth Highway Project) Loan No. 3685-PA
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Eighth Highway Project) dated January 19, 
1994 between the Republic of Paraguay and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, as amended. 
In response to the request from the Minister of Public Works and Communications 
of May 18, 2000 and further discussions with representatives of said Ministry to, 
inter alia: (a) increase the percentage of eligible expenditures to be financed with 
Loan proceeds under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to the Loan Agreement; and (b) finance the construction of sewage works under Part A.3 
of the Project, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
I.
Loan Agreement:
1.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“CORPOSANA” means the Borrower’s Water and Sewerage company(Corporacion 
de Obras Sanitarias);
(b)
“CORPOSANA Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 (c) 
of this Agreement;
(c)    “CONAVI” means the National Housing Council (Consejo Nacional de la 
Vivienda) of the Borrower;
(d)    “DPP” means the Department of Planning and Projects (Departamento de 
Planificacion y Proyectos) of MOPC;
(e)    “EU” means the Environment Unit (Unidad del Medio Ambiente) of MOPC;
 
(f)    “Guarani” means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(g)    “MOPC” means the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (Ministerio 
de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones) of the Borrower;
(h)    “National Vehicle Registry” means the Borrower's national vehicle 
registry to be established under Part B.3 (b) of the Project;
(i)    “Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of agreement dated August 21, 
1991, duly countersigned by the Borrower on November 14, 1991;
(j)    “Resettlement Program” means the Borrower's resettlement program for the 
protection of the rights of the population to be resettled as a result of the Project 
contained in the Socio-Environmental Impact Assessment Report;
(k)    “Socio-Environmental Impact Assessment Report” is the Borrower's report 
attached to the Borrower's letter to the Bank dated May 21, 1993; and
Page  2
(l)   
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.”.
2.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
“Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out: (i) Parts A.1, A.2, A.3 (a), A.4 through A.6, B and C of the Project, 
through MOPC; and (ii) Part A.3(b) of the Project through MOPC with the participation 
of CORPOSANA, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, conservation, public utilities and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the timetable set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
For purposes of carrying out Part A.3 (b) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall enter into an agreement (the CORPOSANA Agreement) with CORPOSANA, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of MOPC 
to carry out, on behalf of CORPOSANA, the sewerage works under said Part of the 
Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the CORPOSANA Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the CORPOSANA 
Agreement or any provision thereof.”.  
3.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended to read in its entirety 
as set forth in Annex 1 to this Amendment Letter:
4.
Part A.3 of the Project is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
“3.
(a) Improvement of about 12.3 kilometers of paved road from Cuatro 
Mojones to Route 9 (Asuncion’s ringroad); and (b) construction of a sewage 
system, acceptable to the Bank, in the area in which said system will overlap 
with the Asuncion’s ringroad referred to in (a) herein.
5.   
Schedule 5 is hereby amended to read in its entirety as set forth in Annex 2 to 
this Amendment letter.
II. Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall: 
(a)
be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an original; and 
(b) 
have effect as of May 1, 2000, once the Bank has received:
 
(i)
one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter; 
(ii) 
evidence, acceptable to the Bank, that CORPOSANA Agreement 
has been executed by the parties thereto; and
(iii)
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Bank of counsel 
acceptable to the Bank, on behalf of the Borrower and CORPOSANA, 
indicating that the CORPOSANA Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower and CORPOSANA and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and CORPOSANA in accordance with its terms. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter and return one fully executed original 
to the Bank. 
Page  3
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Director
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s/ Julio Romero Ortiz
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 3, 2000
Annex 1
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
"Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
Works
(a) under Part A
  45,024,174.63
100% of foreign 
of the Project
expenditures and 75% of 
local expenditures not to 
exceed US$ 11,000,000 
equivalent in the 
aggregate
(b) under Part A.3,
   8,983,825.37
81%
A.4 and A.6 of the
Project as of 
May 1, 2000
(2)
Equipment
     270,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 85% of
local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’
   9,222,000
100%
services and training
(4)
Refunding of 
   1,500,000
Amounts due pursuant to
Project
Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Loan Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
0
TOTAL
65,000,000”. 
