Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3685 PA
                          Loan Agreement
                     (Eighth Highway Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated January 19, 1994
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3685 PA
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 19, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF
PARAGUAY (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "CONAVI" means the National Housing Council (Consejo
Nacional de la Vivienda) of the Borrower;
      (b)   "DPP" means the Department of Planning and Projects
(Departamento de Planificacion y Proyectos) of MOPC;
      (c)   "EU" means the Environment Unit (Unidad del Medio
Ambiente) of MOPC;
      (d)   "Guarani" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (e)   "MOPC" means the Ministry of Public Works and
Communications (Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones) of
the Borrower;
      (f)   "National Vehicle Registry" means the Borrower's
national vehicle registry to be established under Part B.3 (b) of
the Project;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
a letter of agreement dated August 21, 1991, duly countersigned by
the Borrower on November 14, 1991;
      (h)   "Resettlement Program" means the Borrower's resettlement
program for the protection of the rights of the population to be
resettled as a result of the Project contained in the Socio-
Environmental Impact Assessment Report;
      (i)   "Socio-Environmental Impact Assessment Report" is the
Borrower's report attached to the Borrower's letter to the Bank
dated May 21, 1993; and
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of sixty-five million Dollars ($65,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank (Banco Central del Paraguay) on terms and conditions
Page  3
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period.".
Page  4
                  "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter.".
                  "(c)   (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year.".
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, through MOPC, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, conservation and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
timetable set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement the Borrower, through MOPC, shall: (a) not
later than June 30, 1995, complete the management study referred to
in Part B.3 (a) (i) of the Project; (b) not later than September 30,
1995, review jointly with the Bank the recommendations of such
study; (c) immediately thereafter, implement such recommendations
which, in the opinion of the Bank and the Borrower are acceptable to
achieve the objectives of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank; and (d) not later than December 31, 1995, complete the
implementation of such recommendations.
      Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   make available each year, until the completion of
                  the Project, promptly as needed, in constant 1994
                  Guaranies, as: (A) counterpart funds for the
                  Project; and (B) funds for the maintenance of the
                  roads within the Borrower's territory, the
                  following amounts:
           Amounts in Constant 1994 Guaranies, millions
                  (A)                                (B)
             Counterpart Funds                  Funds for Road
Year          for the Project                     Maintenance
1994              9,200                               19,600
1995              9,500                               26,000
1996              9,000                               26,000
1997              9,000                               26,000
1998              8,000                               26,000;
Page  5
           (ii)   not later than thirty days prior to the date in
                  which MOPC's annual budget is presented to the
                  Borrower's Congress each year, furnish to the
                  Bank, for its review, a copy of such budget;
          (iii)   within thirty days after the date in which MOPC's
                  budget is approved each year, furnish to the Bank
                  a copy of such approved budget; and
           (iv)   not later than January 31 of each year, starting
                  in January 1994, furnish to the Bank a copy of
                  the results of the execution of MOPC's budget for
                  the year preceding the date of presentation of
                  such results.
      (b)   The information to be furnished to the Bank under
paragraphs (ii) through (iv) herein, shall also contain detailed
information with respect to each expenditure, road works investment
and road maintenance, incurred or carried out or to be incurred or
carried out, as the case may be, for the year in question.
      Section 3.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through MOPC,
shall prepare quarterly reports (starting in the fourth quarter of
1993) of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, on the: (i) progress achieved by MOPC in the carrying out
of the Project; (ii) progress to be achieved by MOPC in the carrying
out of the Project during the upcoming quarter; (iii) accumulated
expenditures incurred in the carrying out of the Project, including
a detailed description of the expenditures incurred during the
quarter preceding the date of presentation of such report; and (iv)
expenditures to be incurred by MOPC in the carrying out of the
Project during the upcoming quarter.
      (b)   The report for the last quarter of each year, shall also
contain information with respect to: (i) the results of the
execution of the Borrower's road maintenance program for the year
preceding the date of presentation of such report; (ii) the
Borrower's road maintenance program for the upcoming year; and (iii)
the results of: (A) an evaluation of the condition of each road
within the Borrower's network; and (B) a comparative account of the
traffic volumes on each main road within the Borrower's road
network.
      (c)   The quarterly reports referred to in paragraph (a)
above, with the exception of the report for the last quarter of each
year, shall be furnished to the Bank within thirty days of the
conclusion of each quarter. The report for the last quarter of each
year, shall be furnished to the Bank within sixty days of the
conclusion of the year in question.
      Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through MOPC, shall
carry out Part A of the Project, in accordance with the
recommendations of the Socio-Environmental Impact Assessment Report.
      (b)   The Borrower, through MOPC, shall enter into an
agreement with CONAVI under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, for purposes of assisting the affected population living in
the area where each work will be carried out under Part A of the
Project.
      (c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, assign, terminate or waive the agreement referred
to in (b) above or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.07. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall review
jointly with the Bank not later than March 31 of each year, starting
in 1994, the progress made by the Borrower in: (i) carrying out the
Project; and (ii) achieving the objectives of the Project. Such
review shall also include discussing the information referred to in
Page  6
Sections 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall participate in a Project mid-term
review with the Bank as part of the annual review to be held not
later than March 31, 1996. During such mid-term review, attention
shall particularly focus, inter alia, on the progress made by the
Borrower in carrying out Part B.3 (a)(i) of the Project.
      (c)   As part of each such review, as mentioned in paragraphs
(a) and (b) above, the Bank may require the Borrower to: (i) prepare
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments: (A)
in Project implementation; and/or (B) to the proposed road
maintenance program for the year in question, as referred to in
Section 3.05 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; and (ii) update the
information contained in the reports referred to in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such action
plan or such updated information, as the case may be, not later than
thirty days after the conclusion of the review in question and shall
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan
in accordance with its terms.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MOPC, shall maintain
or cause to be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than three months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of
CONAVI or for the suspension of its operations so as to affect, in
the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the
Borrower in carrying out the Resettlement Program;
      (b)   any of the parties to the agreement referred to in
Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement shall have failed to comply with
any of their obligations thereunder; and
      (c)   the special legislation referred to in Section 6.01 (a)
of this Agreement or any provision thereof, shall have been amended,
Page  7
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely
that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the Effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Borrower has enacted special legislation
enabling it to expropriate the land located within the following
rights of way: (i) from Paraguari to Ita; (ii) from Ita to Cuatro
Mojones; (iii) from Cuatro Mojones to Route 9; and (iv) from Limpio
to Emboscada, required for the carrying out of Part A of the
Project; and
      (b)   that the agreement referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of
this Agreement has been signed by the parties to such agreement.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the legislation referred to in
Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement is in full force and effect.
      Section 6.03. The date  May 19, 1994 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministerio de Hacienda
            Chile 128
            Asuncion, Paraguay
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINISTERIO DE             44329
                    HACIENDA
                  Asuncion, Paraguay
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
Page  8
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                        By /s/ Carlos Facetti
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               47,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
(2) Equipment                    400,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                85% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'               6,100,000        100%
    services and
    Training
(4) Refunding of               1,500,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               10,000,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                65,000,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
Page  9
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures under Parts A and B.1 (a) of the Project unless: (a)
the Borrower shall have resettled the population living in the area
where each work will be carried out under Part A of the Project, in
accordance with the Resettlement Program; and (b) the Bank shall
have received evidence that all the land necessary to carry out Part
A of the Project has been acquired by the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen MOPC's
organization and promote team-work at its highest level; (b) improve
MOPC's capacity to construct and deliver good quality roads and to
properly maintain them; (c) ease the problems caused by rapid
urbanization; (d) reduce the environmental hazard and the nuisance
to people and businesses caused by the frequent flooding of the
Asuncion's ringroad area; (e) facilitate the use of the ports of
Villeta and San Antonio to increase exports; (f) reduce the
transportation costs of exporting soybeans to Brazil; (g) enhance
the capability of MOPC's directorate of highways in the design and
planning of roadworks; (h) improve the environmental assessment
skills of EU; and (i) assist MOPC in establishing the National
Vehicle Registry.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Civil Works
1.    Improvement of about 24 kilometers of paved road of Route 1
from Paraguari to Ita.
2.    Improvement of about 34.6 kilometers of paved road from Ita to
Cuatro Mojones (south access to Asuncion).
3.    Improvement of about 12.3 kilometers of paved road from Cuatro
Mojones to Route 9 (Asuncion's ringroad).
4.    Improvement of about 17 kilometers of gravel road of Route 3
from Limpio to Emboscada (north access to Asuncion).
5.    Rehabilitation of about 100 kilometers of Route 6.
6.    Improvement of about 40 kilometers of unpaved rural roads by
applying sulphonated oil to such roads.
Part B:    Consulting Services
1.    Provision of consulting services to MOPC in order to assist it
in: (a) the supervision of the civil works under: (i) Parts A.1
through A.5 of the Project; and (ii) Part A.6 of the Project; (b)
the preparation of an engineering design for the rehabilitation of
Route 6 referred to in Part A.5 of the Project; (c) the preparation
of an engineering design for the improvement of the roads referred
to in Part A.6 of the Project; and (d) the carrying out of a study
to devise alternatives to handle the flow of water that will be
carried by the Ytay and Lambare creeks.
2.    Carrying out of a study to improve the road accesses to the
greater Asunci›n area, including the identification of: (a) road
investments; (b) public transit alternatives; and (c) traffic
Page  10
management measures that may contribute to solve the existing
problems of congestion within the metropolitan area.
3.    Provision of consulting services to MOPC (including the
training of its staff required therefor) in: (a) strengthening: (i)
its institutional capacity, including the carrying out of a manage-
ment study of MOPC; (ii) EU; and (iii) DPP; and (b) establishing the
National Vehicle Registry.
Part C:     Equipment
1.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment by MOPC necessary for
the National Vehicle Registry referred to in Part B.3 (b) of the
Project.
2.    Acquisition and utilization of equipment by MOPC for a soils
and materials laboratory.
                      *          *          *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
June 15, 1999                              1,215,000
December 15, 1999                          1,260,000
June 15, 2000                              1,305,000
December 15, 2000                          1,355,000
June 15, 2001                              1,405,000
December 15, 2001                          1,460,000
June 15, 2002                              1,515,000
December 15, 2002                          1,570,000
June 15, 2003                              1,625,000
December 15, 2003                          1,685,000
June 15, 2004                              1,750,000
December 15, 2004                          1,815,000
June 15, 2005                              1,885,000
December 15, 2005                          1,955,000
June 15, 2006                              2,025,000
December 15, 2006                          2,100,000
June 15, 2007                              2,180,000
December 15, 2007                          2,260,000
June 15, 2008                              2,345,000
December 15, 2008                          2,430,000
June 15, 2009                              2,520,000
December 15, 2009                          2,615,000
June 15, 2010                              2,710,000
December 15, 2010                          2,810,000
June 15, 2011                              2,915,000
December 15, 2011                          3,025,000
June 15, 2012                              3,135,000
December 15, 2012                          3,255,000
June 15, 2013                              3,375,000
December 15, 2013                          3,500,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
Page  11
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                       Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan
                                     on the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
      more than 16 years
      before maturity
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
      more than 18 years
      before maturity
More than 18 years before                      1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
      (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
      (b)   In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with
this Part A and Part B.2 of this Section, respectively, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Bidders for works under Part A of this Section shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works to be carried out under Part A.6 of the Project up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $1,200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
Page  12
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.    Goods under Part C of the Project up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part C:      Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to
the provisions of Parts A and B of this Section the procedures set
forth in paragraph 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part D:
      All procurement of works to which local competitive bidding
applies shall be carried out using bidding documents satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles
and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of
Page  13
works and goods referred to in Parts A and B of Section I of this
Schedule, except that the principle and rule of procurement referred
to in paragraph 3 below shall not apply to the procurement of works
and goods referred to in Parts A and B.2 of Section I of this
Schedule, respectively.
1.    Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids,
be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local
bidders.
2.    The lowest evaluated bid shall be selected for contract award.
3.    Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in competitive
bidding advertised locally.
4.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to be registered with
local authorities as a prerequisite for bidding, except, that under
the procurement procedure set forth in Part B.1 of Section I of this
Schedule, foreign bidders may be required to be registered with
local authorities as a prerequisite of bidding, provided, however,
that such bidders are not precluded from bidding.
5.    Contract prices for goods and works may be adjusted even if
such prices have increased by less than 15% of the bid price.
6.    There will be no prescribed minimum number of bids to be
submitted in order for a contract to be subsequently awarded.
7.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their
bidding documents with Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite for
bidding.
8.    Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire local personnel,
except for unskilled personnel.
B.    In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set
forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following
principles and rules of procurement shall expressly govern all
procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of
this Schedule:
1.    Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
participating in the selection process, be required to enter into a
joint venture agreement with a local consultant.
2.    Foreign consultants shall be selected from those included in
a short list on the basis of evaluation criteria and terms of
reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.
3.    The prices of contracts over one year duration may be
adjusted.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                       Expected               Expected
                    Completion Date        Completion Date
  Parts of the       of Bidding or         of Parts of the
     Project       Selection Process            Project
                   Not later than:         Not later than:
(a)   A.1          December 31, 1994       December 31, 1998
(b)   A.2          December 31, 1994       December 31, 1998
(c)   A.3          December 31, 1994       December 31, 1998
(d)   A.4          December 31, 1994       December 31, 1998
(e)   A.5          December 31, 1994       December 31, 1998
(f)   A.6          December 31, 1994       December 31, 1995
Page  14
(g)   B.1 (a)(i)   December 31, 1994       December 31, 1998
(h)   B.1 (a)(ii)  December 31, 1994       March 31, 1996
(i)   B.1 (b)      June 30, 1994           December 31, 1994
(j)   B.1 (c)      June 30, 1994           December 31, 1994
(k)   B.1 (d)      December 31, 1994       December 31, 1995
(l)   B.2          December 31, 1994       June 30, 1996
(m)   B.3 (a)(i)   June 30, 1994           June 30, 1995
(n)   B.3 (b)      June 30, 1994           June 30, 1996
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) thru
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
Page  15
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
Page  16
