Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18406
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND PETROCHEMICALS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loans 3258-IN and 3259-IN)
2 September 1998
Environment Sector Unit (SASEN)
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Rupee (Rs.)
US$1                  =       Rs. 39 (as of April 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
1 April - 31 March
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACN         Acrylonitrile                            NOCIL National Organic Chemicals Industries Ltd.
ASF         Acrylic Staple Fiber                     ONGC  Oil and Natural Gas Corporation
CIF         Cost, Insurance and Freight              OSBL  Outside Battery Limit
CIPET       Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and    OSHA  Occupational Safety and Health
Technology                                      Administration (USA)
DCS         Distributed Control System               PBR    Polybutadiene Rubber
DMT         Dimethyl Terephthalate                   PFY    Polyester Filament Yarn
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment          PIB    Public Investment Board
EIL         Engineers India Ltd.                     PP      Polypropylene
EPC         Engineering, Procurement and Construction   PS   Polystyrene
FOB         Free on Board                            PSF    Polyester Staple Fiber
GAIL        Gas Authority of India Ltd.              PTA    Purified Terephthalic Acid
GOI         Government of India                      PVC    Polyvinyl Chloride
GPCB        Gujarat Pollution Control Board          QRA   Quantitative Risk Assessment
HAZOP       Hazard and Operability Study             R&D   Research and Development
HDPE        High Density Polyethylene                SCF    Standard Conversion Factor
HSE         Health, Safety and Environment           SO2    Sulfur Dioxide
ICB         International Competitive Bidding        UL      United Laboratories
IPCL        Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.   UNIDO United Nations Industrial Development
LAB         Linear Alkyl Benzene                              Organization
LDPE        Low Density Polyethylene                 U.S.   United States
LIB         Limited International Bidding            VCM   Vinyl Chloride Monomer
LLDPE       Linear Low Density Polyethylene          $       United States Dollars
LNG         Liquefied Natural Gas
LPG         Liquefied Petroleum Gas
LSHS        Low-Sulfur Heavy Stock
MEG         Mono-ethylene Glycol
MES         Minimum Economic Size
MGCC        Maharashtra Gas Cracker Complex
MINAS       Minimum National Standards
MODVAT   Modified Value Added Tax
MPCB        Maharashtra Pollution Control Board
NFY         Nylon Filament Yam
Vice President         Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director       Edwin Lim
Sector Manager         Richard Ackermann
Staff Member           Naimeh Hadjitarkhani



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND PETROCHEMICALS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3258-IN AND 3259-IN)                    Page
Preface
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Evaluation Summary                                                             i
Part I  Project Implementation Assessment                                      1
Project Objectives                                                      I
Achievement of Project Objectives                                       2
Main Factors Affecting the Project                                     14
Project Sustainability                                                 16
Bank Performance                                                       18
Borrower Performance                                                   19
Assessment of Outcome                                                  20
Future Operation                                                       20
Key Lessons Learned                                                    21
Part II Statistical Tables                                                    23
Table 1:      Summary of Assessments                                   23
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits                               24
Table 3:      Project Timetable                                        25
Table 4:      Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual      26
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation                27
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation                     31
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project                              39
Table 8A:     Project Costs                                            41
Table 88:     IPCL's Actual Project Costs                              42
Table 8C:     IPCL Plant Investments - Actual versus Appraisal Cost    43
Estimates
Table 8D:     Project Financing                                        44
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits                              46
Table 10:     Status of Legal Covenants                                52
Table 11:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements            55
Table 12:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                             56
Table 13:     Bank Resources: Missions                                 57
Annexes                                                                       59
Annex 1       Borrower Contribution to ICR                                    59
Annex 2       The Policy Framework                                            71
Annex 3       Environment and Safety Considerations                           83
Annex 4       Cost-Benefit Analysis                                           95
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not. otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND PETROCHEMICALS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3258-IN AND 3259-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Petrochemicals
Development Project in India, for which Loan 3258-IN, in the amount of US$12 million equivalent, and
Loan 3259-IN, in the amount of US$233 million equivalent, were approved on 13 September 1990 and
made effective on 18 December 1990.
Loan 3258-IN and and Loan 3259-IN were closed on 30 September 1997 and 31 March 1998,
respectively, approximately seven years after the Board approval and two closing date extensions. An
aggregated amount of US$87.6 million equivalent was cancelled from Loan 3259-IN on 1 June 1994, 31
October 1995 and 31 August 1998. An amount of US$135,731 from Loan 3258-IN was cancelled at Loan
Closing.
The ICR was prepared by Charles Dahan, Dominique Babelon, consultants, and Masami Kojima
(EMTOG), under the supervision of Naimeh Hadjitarkhani (task manager),1 from the Environment Unit
(SASEN) of the South Asia Region. The ICR was reviewed by Richard Ackermann (Manager, SASEN).
The borrower provided comments that are presented in Annex 1 of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in March 1998. It is based on material and ex-post evaluation
reports prepared by the Borrower; materials in the Bank project files; and discussions with project
management and Bank staff involved in the project.
This project was managed and supervised by Walter Vergara, Principal Chemical Engineer (LCSES) until January
1998.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA- SECOND PETROCHEMICALS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loans 3258-IN and 3259-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    The main objectives of the project were to (a) expand capacity to produce basic petrochemicals
economically; and (b) improve efficiency and quality of downstream plastic products. More specifically, the
project aimed at (i) optimizing operations and enhancing the economic returns of the Nagothane and
Vadodara petrochemical complexes of publicly-owned Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited (IPCL);
and (ii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and
Technology (CIPET). The project also aimed at improving the incentive framework of the petrochemical
sector through agreements on adequate pricing of C2/C3 (the gas feedstock), periodic reviews of sector
investment programs and minimum economic scale criteria for granting capacity licenses, and a study of the
synthetic fiber industry.
2.    At the time of preparation, the project was justified on the basis of policy changes that had taken
place between 1986 and 1989 in the plastic polymers sub-sector. While these changes were significant, the
policy framework still remained heavily distorted. Yet, the project, which was originally designed as a
hybrid project with policy conditions, was transformed into an investment project by the time of appraisal,
with some modest policy conditions bearing directly on the viability of the project. In retrospect, except for
the small CIPET component, the rationale for Bank support was unclear.
Achievement of Objectives
3.    Achievement ofproject policy objectives was limited (Part I, paras. 16-21). The most important
objective-maintaining the price of C2/C3 at its opportunity cost-was not achieved. The objective of
ensuring efficient investment in the sector was probably met, given the policy changes which took place in
India during the project implementation. Major macro-economic policy changes were announced in June
1991 and they were carried out in the following years. Particularly relevant to the petrochemical sector are
(i) several rounds of trade reforms which lifted all licensing restrictions on imports and reduced maximum
tariffs on nonconsumer goods to 40% and capital goods to 20%; (ii) a major reform of central excise taxes;
and (iii) the lifting of all requirements for capacity licensing (except on environmental and safety grounds).
However, changes to energy pricing policies came only in 1997/98, when natural gas pricing was modified
(linking prices to increasing percentages of international fuel oil prices), and when the prices of a number of
petroleum products were deregulated.
4.    The institutional objectives of the project have been substantially achieved (Part I, paras. 22-25). All
indicators of CIPET's institutional performance show positive developments which exceed the expectations
at Appraisal.
5.    Major physical objectives were accomplished (Part I, paras. 26-28). Most major investmnents planned
by IPCL under the project were implemented, although important changes did occur in the design and the
cost of the project. The actual project costs were Rs. 7,941 million, or 89% of the original estimates. In U.S.
Dollars, the project costs were $235.7 million, or only 40% of the $587.0 million estimated at Appraisal.
This large difference is attributed to the exclusion of two plants and part of the minor revamping schemes;
lower duties on imported capital goods; depreciation of the real exchange rate during the implementation



ii
period; technological changes; and a reduction in working capital and polymer import requirements. Out of
the total loan amount of $245.0 million equivalent, $87.7 million was canceled.
6.    The financial objectives with respect to both IPCL and CIPET have been reached overall (Part I,
paras. 33-39). The overall economic rate of return of the project was re-estimated at 21% versus the 37%
estimated at Appraisal. The overall financial rate of return is currently estimated at 27%. The lower projeclt
economic rate of return is principally due to significantly lower estimates of international prices of outputs in
the medium and long term. IPCL's financial position has remained satisfactory, as all three covenanted
financial ratios, while lower than planned at Appraisal, have been at generally acceptable levels. CIPET's
progress towards self-sufficiency has exceeded the expectations set at Appraisal.
7.    The environmental objectives of the project have been substantially met (Part I, paras. 40-59). At
both Nagothane and Vadodara, the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) prepared for the project
concluded that the project would have a minor overall negative impact on the environment. Mitigation
measures were implemented as recommended by the EIAs. Monitoring results of the operations at the
complexes show that both meet applicable standards except for cyanide levels in treated effluents at
Vadodara. IPCL has since carried out a number of safety audits, risk analysis, safety construction audits and
HAZOP studies (for the entire complex as well as project investments) and implemented their
recommendations. IPCL has further reinforced its safety system at both sites, instituted many safety
programs, and developed disaster management plans.
8.    IPCL is addressing environmental issues remaining at Vadodara. Cyanide levels in the wastewater of
the acrylonitrile (ACN) plant have already been reduced but remain above the current standard. IPCL is in
the process of introducing a new technology which should enable them to meet the new standards when
implemented. To improve hazardous solid waste management, IPCL has installed a hazardous waste multi-
purpose incinerator which has been in operation since March 1998, is developing a safe solid waste
management and handling system, and is working on a comprehensive plan to close down the existing waste
disposal site.
Main Factors Affecting the Project
9.    The loan was closed on 31 March 1998, 18 months beyond the original closing date. The major
reasons for the delay were (i) delays in obtaining final Government approvals (16 months); (ii) delays in the
completion, start-up and stabilization of the cracker and downstream linear low density polyethylene
(LLDPE)/high density polyethylene (HDPE) plant at Nagothane financed under Loan 2505-IN (26 months);
and (iii) IPCL's decision to change the scope of the components at Nagothane to optimize the use of the
additional ethylene, deal with possible shortages of gas feedstocks and with rapid technological changes in
the manufacture of HDPE (18 months). However, once the above changes in scope and procurement
arrangements were made, IPCL's experienced project team was able to implement the project in about two
years. The loan to Government of India (GOI) for the CIPET component was closed on 30 September 1997,
12 months after the original closing date due to a long delay in the signing of the grant agreement between
GOI and CIPET. Subsequently, implementation proceeded satisfactorily (Part I, paras. 60-67).
Project Sustainability
10.   Project Investments. Project investments at Nagothane remain viable under any of the hypotheses
tested, even if all distortions associated with current gas pricing and tariff duties are eliminated and
international prices fall further. Project investments at Vadodara, however, are more vulnerable due to high
internal transfer costs of raw materials from Vadodara's small and old naphtha cracker. IPCL is aware of



these limitations and is implementing a restructuring program, which includes the replacement of this
cracker with a larger unit and increased imports of naphtha. These measures would ensure the long-term
sustainability of project investments (Part I, paras. 68-69).
11.   Financial and Economic Sustainability of IPCL. Overall, the financial sustainability of IPCL is rated
as likely. In the past eight years, IPCL has shown an ability to adjust to a changing policy environment and
finance a large expansion program while maintaining its profitability and a sound financial structure.
However, the current distortions in feedstock prices are expected to be eliminated in time and tariff
protection will decrease further while competition from the private sector will increase. The large facilities
under construction for importing naphtha and substantial restructuring of the entire Vadodara complex will
help IPCL to maintain its profitability and competitiveness. Another uncertainty faced by IPCL is the ",
reported shortage of natural gas to support the Gandhar complex. The Government has indicated that options
were being reviewed and it was confident of resolving this issue shortly (Part I, paras. 70-73).
12.   Environmental Sustainability of IPCL. The level of environmental and safety awareness at both
IPCL sites is already very high, and will be enhanced further at Nagothane if management proceeds with its
plans to establish environmental management systems according to ISO 14001 norms. At Vadodara, IPCL
has been working on resolving the two remaining issues of solid waste disposal and cyanide levels. Because
of these factors, the environmental sustainability of the project investments and of IPCL's facilities as a
whole is rated as likely (Part I, para. 74).
13.   Sustainability of CIPET. CIPET has managed to steadily improve its financial self-reliance and its
prospects for reaching full self-sufficiency in a period of four to five years. The sustainability of the CIPET
component and of CIPET itself is therefore rated as likely (Part I, para. 75).
Bank Performance
14.    The overall performance of the Bank in the financial, technical, institutional and environmental
aspects of the project was satisfactory (Part I, paras. 76-81). The Bank regularly followed up on these
aspects and showed substantial flexibility in modifying the project design to respond to changing
technological and market conditions, and in adapting its procurement rules. In the area of policy, however,
Bank performance was deficient. Although Bank identification and preparation teams properly identified
major policy issues, the Bank proceeded with the project as an investment operation, even though the
rationale for Bank involvement was no longer clear. During Negotiations, the Bank also agreed to eliminate
from the pricing covenant the statement of principles on which C2/C3 pricing was based. Finally, the follow-
up and discussion on C2/C3 pricing in relation to its opportunity cost was not recorded in supervision
mission reports, and the issue of the former's progressive relative decline was not raised.
Borrower Performance
15.   IPCL's performance in project preparation was satisfactory overall, despite a failure to obtain the
necessary Government clearances in time (Part I, paras. 82-83). The parallel implementation of the Gandhar
complex strained the implementation capacity and financial position of IPCL. However, IPCL demonstrated
a strong capacity to implement the project quickly and efficiently once decisions to proceed were taken.
There were no problems of counterpart funding, and IPCL complied with all other covenants with respect to
environment, procurement, reporting, accounting and auditing, and (except for a short time) its financial
structure.



iv
16.    The performance of CIPET was highly satisfactory (Part I, para. 84). There was an initial delay
owing to CIPET's lack of familiarity with required procedures for obtaining Government approval. Once t-he
approval was obtained, the project was implemented exactly as planned and on a relatively timely basis.
CIPET has complied with all its obligations with respect to the yearly submission of its training program,
procurement, and project accounting and auditing.
Assessment of Outcome
17.    The project achieved most of its major objectives and is expected to achieve its intended financial
and economic, institutional and environmental results, and is therefore rated as satisfactory. The policy
objective of the project was not achieved but the policy framework in which the project operates has
improved markedly since the project was approved (Part I, para. 85).
Future Operation
18.   In 1997/98, the project plants completed their first full year of operation at Vadodara. The project
plants at Nagothane started on June 19, 1998, and are expected to run at capacity. With respect to CIPET, the
equipment procured under the project is being utilized and maintenance is not likely to be a problem. No
follow-up operation has been financed by the Bank. The type of support provided to IPCL no longer fits into
Bank strategy for India and elsewhere. Finally, it is suggested that the Bank should follow up on C2/C3
pricing with the Government in the broader context of energy sector operations (Part I, paras. 86-90).
Key Lessons Learned
19.    The major lessons which emerge from the implementation of the project are the following: (a) sub-
sector approaches are not effective ways of addressing distortions in a sub-sector when these same
distortions prevail throughout the economy; (b) pricing covenants should always state the principles on
which prices are to be calculated and should provide for periodic formal reviews; (c) upgrading the
technological basis of institutions such as CIPET merits Bank support when the institution has close ties
with its clientele and incentives to optimize the financial return of the project; (d) expansion investments
should not be approved until production of existing plants has stabilized, or at least started; (e) requirements
for well prepared timely EIAs and safety studies are effective in strengthening and modernizing
environmental and safety systems in firms; (f) all government approvals required should be conditions for
Board presentation; (g) decentralization of procurement review and perhaps other project supervision
functions to field offices is effective in speeding up the process and flagging potential issues; and (h) for
expansion projects, direct contracting or possibly limited international bidding (LIB) procurement
procedures could be considered under special circumstances to accommodate the increased requirements of
equipment recommended by process licensers and specific needs for standardization.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
INDIA - SECOND PETROCHEMICALS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loans 3258-IN and 3259-IN)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
Original Objectives and Changes During Implementation
1.    The main objectives of the project were to (i) expand capacity to produce basic petrochemicals
economically; and (ii) improve efficiency and quality of downstream plastic products. In addition, the
project would support the Government of India (GOI) in its efforts to improve further the incentive
framework for the sizable investments being considered for the petrochemical sector. The project's main
objectives were to be achieved as follows:
(a) optimizing operations and enhancing the economic returns of the Nagothane and Vadodara
petrochemical complexes of IPCL, the Government-owned petrochemicals company, through
investments in expansions, new plants, and modernization at both sites;
(b) ensuring early absorption by plastic processors of new grades of polymers that would be produced for
the first time in India by IPCL under the project by financing the import of these special grades of
commodity polymers for market seeding purposes; and
(c) strengthening the institutional capacity of CIPET to upgrade its capabilities to respond effectively to the
manpower and product design quality needs of small and medium size private plastic processors in
India.
2.    Furthermore, improvements in the incentive framework would be pursued through several
covenants in the Guarantee Agreement requiring the Government to inform and consult with the Bank with
respect to (i) changes in the price of C2/C3, the gas fractions used in the cracking process; (ii) biennial
reviews of the progress and economic viability of major investments in the sector; and (iii) periodic reviews
of minimum economic scale criteria imposed by the Government as a condition for granting capacity
licenses. In addition, although not a covenant but a commitment recorded in the Minutes of Negotiations
was a study to be commissioned by the Government of the synthetic fiber industry with a view to proposing
a phased modernization program for the industry to achieve international competitiveness.
3.    Except for changes to the design and composition of IPCL's physical investments, which are further
detailed in Section B, there were no major changes in project objectives during implementation.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
4.    The Bank's country assistance strategy in the industrial sector at the time called for:
"sub-sector projects which will provide policy, technical and financial support for economic
investments in areas where improved efficiency will have implications for the growth of the whole
industrial sector (e.g., petrochemicals, electronics, and capital goods). In these areas, the basic
criterion that determines the decision to go ahead with a loan is whether the policy environment is
conducive to efficient investments in the area or sub-sector that is being supported. Thus, the



2
lending strategy involves supporting investments in areas where policy improvements have already
been undertaken, consistent with the conclusions of the previous sector work." 1.
5.     The project was justified at the time of preparation by policy changes which had taken place
between 1986 and 1989 in the plastic polymers sub-sector-a lowering of the level of protection by more
than half, the liberalization of imports, and permitting private sector participation.
6.     While these changes were significant in the Indian industrial context at the time, the policy
framework remained heavily distorted, with protection levels which were still high (50% to 75%), high
excise taxes (in particular on fibers and their intermediates), high raw material prices (naphtha), and a large
segment of the sector (rubbers and fibers) still subject to quantitative restrictions on imports. For these
reasons, the project was designed up to Appraisal as a hybrid project with policy conditions associated with
further improvements in the trade and tax policies, feedstock pricing, increased private sector participation,
and rationalization of major investments in the sector. For reasons further detailed in Section E (Bank
Performance), the project was eventually transformed into an investment project with only modest policy
conditions, principally those bearing directly on the viability of the project.
7.    In retrospect, the rationale for Bank involvement in the sector was unclear. First, addressing policy
issues in isolation from the broader questions of countrywide trade and tax reform, industry deregulation,
and energy pricing as originally envisaged (as part of the sub-sector approach prevailing at the time) may
have been misguided because it could have led to cross-sector distortions. Second, except for the small
CIPET component for which the rationale for Bank support was clear, Bank investment lending in the
sector was not necessary to secure its development and steady growth. This has clearly been demonstrated
by IPCL's ability to raise commercial lending and equity funds for its Gandhar complex in parallel with
project implementation, and by the concurrent massive entry of the private sector (Reliance Industries).
B. Achievement of Objectives
Sector Policy Objectives
(a) Background on Policy Changes During Implementation
8.     Changes in the policy framework as it affected the sector during the period 1990-98 are described in
Annex 2. These changes have occurred within the overall context of significant changes in the general
economic policy framework which has taken place since 1991. In June 1991, major policy changes were
announced, aiming at significantly opening up the economy to foreign trade and investment, rationalizing
the tax regime, and increasing competition by removing administrative bottlenecks to entry and capacity
increases. This new set of policies was accompanied by a sharp depreciation of the real exchange rate.
9.     Particularly relevant were: (i) several rounds of trade reforms which have lifted all licensing
restrictions on imports of intermediate and capital goods and reduced maximum tariffs for non consumer
goods to 40% and for capital goods to 20%; (ii) a major reform of central excise taxes which shifted most
excise rates from specific to ad valorem, reduced the number of rates, and made the tax system resemble a
value-added tax system more closely; (iii) the lifting of all requirements for capacity licensing of domestic
investments (except on environmental and safety grounds); and (iv) the establishment of a foreign
investment regime considered more investor-friendly than previously.
Paragraphs 2.24 through 2.26 of the Staff Appraisal Report; italics this report's authors.



3
10.    Changes in the policy framework for the petrochemical sector followed this general policy. The
Government began to reduce import tariffs on plastic polymers in 1986, but tariffs were still at 500/o-60% in
1988/89. After a three-year stabilization period, during which some of the rates even increased, the tariffs
on plastic polymers were lowered further to 30%/40% in 1996/97. The most drastic changes took place
with respect to synthetic fibers where tariffs were reduced from the equivalent of between 130% to 220% in
1988-89 to a uniform 30% in 1996/97. For building blocks and intermediates, there has also been a
significant reduction and harmonization of rates since 1988/89, to between 0% and 30% in 1996-97. The
overall reduction in tariffs on capital goods from 85% to 20% (excluding surcharges) also had large impacts
on the sector. These changes are significant, despite a partial reversal in 1996/97, 1997/98 and 1998/99,
when 2%, 3% and 8% across-the-board import surcharges were introduced, respectively.
11.    The structure of excise taxes (and corresponding countervailing duties on imports) has been
changed to reduce product-to-product variation considerably. While excise tax rates for building blocks,
intermediates and polymers have changed little since Appraisal, they have been reduced markedly for
synthetic fibers. The combination of lower sales taxes and lower tariff duties has reportedly encouraged
consumption (synthetic fibers were previously a "rich man fiber" in India) while forcing restructuring in an
industry characterized by product-to-product tax variation, small scale and high costs.
12.    Changes to energy pricing and consequently petrochemical feedstock prices were slower to come.
The price of natural gas steadily declined to about half of its opportunity cost despite a serious shortage of
gas. Natural gas pricing was finally modified in September 1997. For 1997, 1998 and 1999, the price of
natural gas was to be set at 55%, 65%, and 75%, respectively, of the international (FOB) price equivalent of
a basket of fuel oils, with floor limits as well as upper ceilings, except in the northeastern states where these
percentages are lower. In 1999/2000, the Government will decide if and when to move to 100% of the
reference value (still below the opportunity cost, since it should actually be based on the CIF value of fuel
oil). The price of C2/C3 has not yet changed, pending a formal decision of the Gas Linkage Committee-a
government committee made up exclusively of representatives of government ministries and public sector
companies and chaired by the Minister of Petroleum-but is expected to be adjusted to reflect the price of
natural gas plus a separation charge (and pipeline transport costs when applicable).
13.   The administrative price of domestic naphtha continued to remain above the import parity value
(although substantially less than in 1990, when it was 55% above import parity), even though naphtha
imports were liberalized. However, a major change occurred in early 1998 in the pricing policy of
petroleum products. Effective April 1988, all prices (including naphtha) were deregulated, except for those
of kerosene, high speed diesel, LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) and aviation fuel, which are still administered
but are expected to be deregulated after a four year transition period. Refineries are now free to set their
own prices, and it is expected that these will be progressively aligned with the price of imported products
and that the freight equalization scheme will disappear. However, the question of local sales taxation-
which still substantially penalizes users of domestic naphtha over users of imports for those who do not
benefit from local tax incentive packages-remains to be addressed; otherwise petrochemical producers will
shift towards imports for most of their requirements.
14.   Changes are also taking place to improve access to feedstock. As already mentioned, imports of
naphtha are deregulated and domestic supplies are now negotiated directly with refineries. Some naphtha
users are building their own port facilities, and increasing competition from imported naphtha is likely to
force a realignment of domestic naphtha prices. The supply of natural gas, however, remains entirely in the
public sector. The allocation of gas to users is determined by the Gas Linkage Committee. In the
petrochemical sector, C2/C3 gas fractions from the fields on the west coast of India have so far been
allocated only to two public sector companies, IPCL and the Gas Authority of India (GAIL). However, in



4
order to increase exploration activities in the 20 (out of 26) unexplored basins, the Govermment has recent][y
announced a new exploration licensing policy permitting public bidding for oil rights from public and
private sectors, and domestic and foreign bidders alike. It also provides for a system of applicable royalties
and tax incentives. A separate regulatory body has been established in the Directorate of Hydrocarbons to
administer and regulate this new system. These steps are a major departure from the past, leveling the
playing field and increasing transparency.
1 5    Although the current policy framework is much more favorable than at Appraisal, a number of
issues remain which are still obstacles to better efficiency: (a) with tariffs in the range of 40%-50% for
polymers and fibers and 20%-40% for intermediates, the level of protection is still high by world standards;
(b) large differences in local sales tax rates (not recoverable under modified value added tax, MODVAT)
depending on the state, product, and the eligibility of investors for state tax incentive packages, potentially
create serious distortions in the selection of the plant location, raw materials and product mix, and in the
competitive position of new versus established enterprises. Harmonization of tax rates and investment
incentives across states and their transformation into value added taxation systems would help prevent such
distortions (a package of measures designed to harmonize state sales tax systems was accepted in principle
at the end of 1995 by State and Union Finance Ministers but has not yet been implemented); (c) prices of
natural gas and its C2/C3 fractions need to increase further to their full opportunity costs; and (d) with the
likely entry of private gas producers, the Government will need to establish a regulatory framework and
body for gas transportation and distribution.
(b) Achievement of the Project's Sector Policy Objectives
16.    As indicated in Section A, the project had limited policy objectives, designed at the time to
compensate for the negative effects of a less than optimum sector policy environment. They were expressed
in Covenants in the Guarantee Agreement and in the Minutes of Negotiations.
17.    C2/C3 Pricing. Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement specified that "The Guarantor shall maintain
an appropriate price established by it for ethane/propane which constitute the feedstock for the production
of petrochemicals and shall inform the Bank of any proposed change therein and afford the Bank an
opportunity to comment on the proposed change." The principle on which the original "appropriate" price
was based was the opportunity cost of gas (based on the fuel oil equivalent value, plus a reasonable
separation charge). The Government did not change the price of C2/C3 between 1990 and 1997, despite
inflation and substantial devaluation of the Rupee, and the price has fallen steadily in relation to its
opportunity cost, to an estimated 50%-60% by 1998 (see Annex 2, Table A2.6 for detailed calculations).
The project therefore failed to achieve its objective; the Bank should not have agreed at Negotiations to
eliminate from the pricing covenant the statement of principles on which C2/C3 pricing was based.2
18.   Sector Investment Review. The Guarantee Agreement specified that the Government would, every
second year starting 1991, review the progress of investments in olefins and aromatics complexes to assess
their economic viability, and discuss the results of these reviews with the Bank. The objective was to ensure
efficient investments and avoid over-capacity in a still highly protected environment. In July 1991,
however, the Government eliminated licensing requirements on new capacity as part of its liberalization
program, rendering this review both useless and impossible with respect to private sector investments, and
limited itself to the already mandatory review of large-scale investments by public sector enterprises (i.e.,
2 The original wording proposed at Negotiations was "the Guarantor shall, no later than December 31, 1989, set the
ethane/propane price at a level consistent with its opportunity cost (as a substitute for fuel oil) plus reasonable
separation costs". This wording was rejected by GOI and changed to the actual wording during Negotiations.



5
IPCL and presumably, more recently, GAIL). Since no analysis of the competitiveness of major new
investments in the sector has been performed since Appraisal, it is difficult to assess whether the original
objectives were met, but the combination of deregulation with trade liberalization and lowering of
protection, which took place in parallel, have probably contributed towards that aim (the size, location,
technological choice and feedstock choice of the major olefin projects implemented since appear to confirm
this hypothesis).
19.   Minimum Economic Size Criteria. To complement the above investment reviews, the Government
was to periodically review the minimum economic size criteria established for licensing capacity to take
into account ongoing technological developments. The objective of this covenant was the same as for the
periodic investment reviews, i.e., providing "second-best" instruments to ensure efficient investments in a
highly protected environment. As requirements for capacity licensing were eliminated, minimum scale
requirements became redundant, except as guidelines to financial institutions. An ex-post review of capacity
constructed since 1990 shows that, for cracking, intermediates and plastic and rubber polymers, new
capacity or expansions were of competitive size internationally and have therefore met these criteria. In the
synthetic fiber industry, however, the study carried out in 1991 showed that the minimum economic size
policy was not being strictly enforced, and was inefficient in ensuring that licensed investors actually
constructed their plants to match the licensed capacity. It has been reported that, since then, the substantial
lowering of protection to the industry is leading to extensive restructuring through a combination of
capacity expansions in existing plants to reach an economic scale, very large new capacity additions
(Reliance), and likely closures.
20.   Synthetic Fiber Industry Study. At Negotiations, it was agreed that the Government would complete
a study of the synthetic fiber industry by 31 March 1991 to review its present status, with reference to sizes
of production units, the type of technology being used and cost of production, and to suggest an appropriate
phased modernization program to upgrade the sizes and technology base of the industry with the primary
objective of achieving international competitiveness. The study was completed in March 1992. The study
exposed the inefficiency of the domestic fiber industry and its inability to compete internationally (see Table
7). It recommended a phased strategy of cost and price reduction to the benefit of consumers through (a)
modernization programs favoring expansion of existing plants to minimum economic scales; and (b) a
phased reduction in both tariffs and excise taxes (although with no quantitative targets). The study was
released after GOI's critical decision to liberalize trade, lower protection and reform the excise tax system
throughout the economy, but probably contributed to the fast pace at which these reforms were applied in
the sub-sector, and thus is likely to have met its objective.
21.   In summary, achievement of project policy objectives has been limited: the most important
objective, that of ensuring that the price of C2/C3 feedstock be maintained at its opportunity cost, was not
achieved, and the remedial policy actions adopted by the Government for natural gas, if applied to C2/C3
fractions, will still be insufficient to reach the original objective. The objective of ensuring efficient
investment in the sector was probably met, given the important policy changes which took place in India
during project implementation. The synthetic fiber industry study met its objectives.
Institutional Objectives
22.   The major institutional objective of the project was to strengthen the ability of CIPET to upgrade its
capabilities to respond effectively to the rapidly growing need of the small and medium size private plastic
processors for manpower training, design, testing, quality control, and advisory services. The project has
allowed the technological updating of CIPET. The study tours, consultants and faculty training abroad have
exposed CIPET to the latest technological trends in the plastic processing industry worldwide and allowed



6
them to forge links with prestigious institutions abroad (collaborative research and faculty exchange
programs). The acquisition under the project of state-of-the-art computer-aided machines for tooling,
processing, design and testing has allowed considerable upgrading in the relevance of training as well as
substantially increasing the scope for research and development (R&D) and technical assistance service
contracts with the industry (for testing and certification, design and quality control), and promoted the use
of sophisticated techniques by small-scale plastic processors.
23.    The institutional objectives of the project have been substantially achieved. All indicators of
CIPET's institutional performance since Appraisal show positive developments (see Table 6B), exceeding
expectations at Appraisal. Since Appraisal, CIPET has increased its geographical coverage from five
extension centers to eleven. The number of its long-term training programs (one- to three-year graduate
programs aimed at training the industry's middle management and technicians) has increased from six to
eight; enrollment in these long-term programs has increased from 340 in 1988/89, to close to 2,500 in
1997/98, a seven-fold increase, and enrollment in short term courses has increased in similar proportions. In
real terms, resources have increased by about 20% since 1988/89, despite a drastic (close to half) reduction
in government budgetary allocation in 1990/91, which have not recovered in constant terms since. CIPET
has managed to double its total resources, thanks to its efforts to raise its own funds-which have increased
from 10% of total resources in 1988/89 to 27% in 1990/91, and to 57% in 1997/98-through sales of
services to industry, increased fees for long-term training, and charging the full cost of short-term training
(the Staff Appraisal Report projected about 40% by 1991/92). CIPET expects to be 65% self-sufficient in
1998/99 and to become totally self-supporting in four to five years.
24.    CIPET's success in reaching its intended clientele is evidenced by the source of its own funding,
between 80% and 90% of which is paid by small and medium-scale firms, and by the employment record of
the alumni of its graduate programs, 85% of whom are employed in industry (almost all in small and
medium-scale firms). Another 12% have established their own firms.
25.   Industry participates in management decisions through the participation of four industrialists in
CIPET's fifteen-member Governing Council. Furthermore, there are regular consultations with industry on
the scope of the training programs, and curricular reviews which are organized every three years.
Representatives of small plastic processing firms, small industry associations and the alumni association
interviewed during the last supervision/completion mission were very supportive of CIPET. Based on the
quality of faculty and the stock of high technology equipment now at its disposal, they viewed CIPET as
uniquely qualified to provide the specialized training needed by industry as well as a broad range of other
services, and saw considerable scope for the further commercialization of CIPET. In their view, CIPET
should now stress R&D by offering comprehensive one- to three-year R&D packages integrating all stages
of production, from design through prototype manufacturing and testing (CIPET was still too
"compartmentalized" in the provision of various services). They also saw a larger role for CIPET in testing
for compliance with standards (CIPET is accredited by the Indian Standards Institute, and could become
accredited to deliver certification for meeting United Laboratories, UL, and other types of international
standards). Finally, they stressed the need for more decentralization through the establishment of regional
councils to orient the work of the extension centers more towards the needs of the local industry.



7
Physical Objectives
(a) IPCL 's Investments in Plant Capacity
26.   Most of IPCL 's investments planned under the project were implemented, although important
changes did occur in the design and the cost of the project. A detailed summary of changes is presented in
Table 5. At Nagothane, implementation was as follows:
*  The 100,000 tons per year (tpy) expansion of the gas-based cracker was implemented as planned.
* For the downstream plant, however, the project originally contemplated the addition of a new
75,000 tpy train to the existing LLDPE/ HDPE swing plant. Instead, one of the trains of the existing
plant was debottlenecked and upgraded to increase its capacity by 60,000 tpy at a much lower cost
using a new process. This change in project design and the need to contract the revamping under an
Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contract procured using LIB procedures
required an amendment to the Loan Agreement and Board approval. Overall, these changes have
resulted in much lower project costs.
* The increased capacity of downstream units required an additional nitrogen /oxygen separation unit,
which was added under the project.
* A propane cracking unit was also added to the project during implementation, to complement
C2/C3 supplied by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC).
* The 12,500 tpy additional unit to the Wires and Cables Compounding Plant was canceled, as the
additional demand for wires and cables did not materialize (and imports already covered all of the
demand for lower grades at more competitive prices).
27.   At Vadodara, implementation was as follows:
* A new polypropylene (PP) unit was constructed, with a capacity of 75,000 tpy instead of 60,000 tpy
originally planned (the increase was to match an increase in GOI's minimum economic sizes).
* The existing butadiene extraction plant was rehabilitated as planned, and its capacity expanded by
15,500 tpy to a total capacity of 37,760 tpy.
* A new 30,000 tpy polybutadiene rubber (PBR) plant was constructed to expand production from
20,000 tpy to 50,000 tpy, as planned.
* The 7,500 tpy engineering plastics plant was removed from the scope of the project-it was
implemented under a joint venture with GE Plastics and financed out of IPCL's own resources.
* Minor debottlenecking schemes have been implemented partially (distributed control system, DCS,
replacing the Vadodara cracker instrumentation).
28.   As a result of these changes in design and cancellations, total financing required for IPCL capital
investments was $178.8 million instead of $499.0 million planned at Appraisal, or only 36% of the original
estimate. In current Rupees, total financing required amounted to about Rs. 6,425 million, versus the Rs.
7,679 million estimated at Appraisal, or about 84% of the original estimate. These calculations are presented
in Table 8.
(b) IPCL 's Market Seeding Program
29.   The market seeding program partially met its objectives. It was originally conceived to allow IPCL
to prepare the market to absorb new grades of polymers produced under the project (special grades of
LLDPE, PP, PBR, and HDPE). After the explosion at the Maharashtra Gas Cracker Complex (MGCC) in



8
November 1990, IPCL requested the Bank to use part of these funds to import common grades of LDPE
(low density polyethylene), LLDPE, HDPE and PP to meet the shortfall in supply arising from the delay in
commissioning the cracker. IPCL also requested authorization to import engineering plastics and wire and
cable compounds from its partners in production on a single source basis. The Bank agreed to both requests.
Despite this flexibility, IPCL used up only $44.7 million, instead of the $75.0 million planned at Appraisal.
About one third of these imports were LDPE, a standard commodity polymer. Other imports were mostly
LLDPE (49%) and engineering plastics (10%). Market seeding programs were limited to engineering
plastics and the new plant's PP (580 tons of Valtec spheripol grade). After May 1992, the pace of imports
by IPCL slowed down substantially due to a combination of lower international prices and increased
competition from importers. In October 1993, IPCL requested the cancellation of the balance of $30.3
million.
(c) TechnicalAssistance for CIPET
30.    All activities for training and study tours abroad, foreign technical assistance, and equipment
purchases were carried out by CIPET in the same scope and amounts as planned at Appraisal (Table 5).
Total actual costs of this component were $12.3 million, versus the $13.0 million planned at Appraisal.
(d) Total Costs and Financing
31.    Actual project costs were Rs. 7,941 million, versus the Rs. 8,954 million estimated at Appraisal, or
89% of the original estimates. In U.S. Dollars, the actual costs are significantly lower than expected,
calculated to be $235.7 million compared to the $587.0 million at Appraisal, or only 40% of the Appraisal
estimate. This large difference is attributed to:
-  a $250 million decrease in IPCL investments in plant capacity attributed to (i) the exclusion of two
plants and part of the minor revamping schemes; (ii) lower duties on imported capital goods (falling
from 85% at Appraisal to 24% in 1997/98); (iii) a 25% depreciation of the real exchange rate during
the implementation period; and (iv) changes in design and other factors. The share of each factor in
the cost difference is estimated as follows:
IPCL Plant Investments (Installed Cost3)               US$ Million
Appraisal Estimate                                         429.9
Less: Engineering Plastics Plant                          -50.5
Less: Wires and Cables Plant                              -22.4
Less: Impact of Real Exchange Rate Depreciation           -41.2
Less: Lowering of Import Duties on Equipment 4             -85.9
Less: Modernization Schemes                               -55.6
Changes in Design and Other Factors and Possible Errors 5  -10.2
Actual Cost                                                164.1
*  a reduction of $43.1 million in working capital requirements, as these were not accounted for by
IPCL as part of the project;
Excluding incremental working capital and interest during construction.
Import duties on imported capital goods were estimated at $112.3 million at Appraisal. As these were
progressively reduced to an average of 24% in 1997/98, based on the estimated phasing of project expenditures,
total actual duties are estimated at $26.4 million.
Since these calculations were based on average exchange rates for annual or semestrial expenditures, it is possible
that distortions occurred in conversions into US$.



9
* a $30.3 million in the polymer import component; and
*  smaller differences, totaling $12.0 million in interest during construction ($11.3 million) and CIPET
component ($0.7 million).
32.    Out of the total loan amount of $245.0 million equivalent, the Bank disbursed only $157.3 million.
An aggregated amount of $87.7 million was canceled from Loan 3259-1N-US$ 30.3 million on 1 June
1994, US$40 million on 31 October 1995 and US$17.3 million after the last disbursement was made on 31
August 1998. An amount of US$135,731 was canceled for Loan 3258-IN. The Bank's share of project
financing is estimated at 67% of the total project costs versus the 42% planned at Appraisal. In Rupees
equivalent, Bank financing accounted for 62% of the total costs. Despite these differences, major physical
objectives were reached. Achievement of physical objectives is therefore considered substantial,
Financial Objectives
33.    The project had two kinds of financial objectives: (a) economic and financial rates of return of each
major investment and of the project as a whole; and (b) financial covenants on IPCL.
(a) Economic and Financial Rates of Return
34.    Re-estimated financial and economic rates of return, compared with the Appraisal estimates, are
presented and discussed in Table 9, detailed in Annex 4, and are summarized below:
Financial Rate of Return (%)    Economic Rate of Return (%)
Appraisal     Current     Appraisal      Current
Component                               Estimate     Estimate      Estimate      Estimate
1. Gas Cracker Expansion and HDPE Plant   40            56           49            48
at Nagothane
2. New Polypropylene Plant at Vadodara    29            20           22            9
3. Butadiene and Polybutadiene Rubber      16           16           22            10
Plant Expansion at Vadodara
4. Wire/Cable Compounds Plant             25            -            32
5. Engineering Plastics Plant             36            -            41
Overall Project                            -            27           37            21
Overall Project, excluding 4 and 5        31            27           36            21
35.    As projected at Appraisal, the project's justification clearly remains import substitution (Annex 2,
Attachment 1 shows current supply/demand balances) based on domestic feedstock. The main differences
between the Appraisal estimates and current estimates may be explained as follows:
* For investments at Vadodara, while Appraisal and revised estimates of financial rates of return are
generally comparable, revised economic rates of retum are significantly below the Appraisal
estimates. This is principally due to significantly lower estimates of international prices for PP and
PBR, which are 35% to 50% below the Appraisal estimates, while investment costs remain
comparable to the Appraisal estimates. The rate of return of these plants would increase if the
transfer cost of butadiene and propylene was lower, as the current cost reflects the high costs of the
old, small Vadodara naphtha cracker.
* For investments at Nagothane, however, the economic rate of return as currently estimated is much
closer to the Appraisal estimate, while the re-estimated financial rate of return is significantly



10
above. This is because, although HDPE international prices, similar to international prices of other
commodity polymers, were also about 40% below those originally estimated, investment costs in
the cracker and HDPE plant were only about half of the Appraisal estimates. While investments in
the cracker expansion were in line with the Appraisal estimates, investments in the HDPE plant
were only about 40% of those originally planned, due to the change in design from a new train to
the revamping of the existing plant.
36.   The overall economic rate of return of the project was re-estimated at 21 % versus the 37%
estimated at Appraisal. The overall financial rate of return was re-estimated at 27%. These estimates are
based on the aggregate of all of IPCL's project investnents in plant capacity, accounting for 77% of total
project costs.
(b) Financial Condition of IPCL and CIPET
37.   IPCL's financial position has remained satisfactory. In 1992, the Bank expressed concern that the
long-term debt/equity ratio was slightly above the covenanted level of 60/40 and the current ratio, although
still above 1.0, was below the agreed ratio of 1.3. IPCL at the time was in a tight financial position due to
delays in commissioning MGCC after the explosion, and the Bank was concerned that the decision to
proceed with the implementation of the Gandhar complex in parallel with this project would further
constrain IPCL's finances. However, IPCL managed to raise substantial equity funding for Gandhar by
selling shares on the stock market and keeping a high self-financing ratio. All three covenanted ratios, while
lower than planned at Appraisal, returned to generally acceptable levels. Changes in the past financial
performance of IPCL, as compared with the Appraisal estimates, and IPCL's projections for the period
1998/99 to 2001/02 are presented in Table 6A.
38.   Until 1993/94, the profitability of IPCL was significantly below the Appraisal estimates, as
measured by the ratio of income to net sales, and the return on capital employed. IPCL's profitability then
improved as projected until 1997/98, when capacity utilization of MGCC was quickly increased to above
100%. Profitability in 1997/98 declined, due to a substantial drop in international prices at the end of 1997
and the beginning of 1998 which followed the outbreak of the Asian crisis. IPCL management expects
profitability to return to previous levels after the MGCC expansion reaches full capacity and production at
Gandhar picks up.
39.   As already discussed above, the financial condition of CIPET has improved beyond what was
expected and CIPET is marching towards self-sufficiency within the next four to five years. Overall, the
project has therefore substantially achieved its financial objectives for both IPCL and CIPET.
Environmental Objectives
Background
40.   Environment Policy in India. Indian Laws require the preparation of a comprehensive EIA to
identify potential environmental impacts of large industrial projects and establish baseline data.
Furthermore, the Environment Act of 1986 specifies standards and monitoring procedures for emission and,
discharge and Minimum National Standards (MINAS) for specific industries. The Environmental Impact
Evaluation issued on 30 June 1994 by the Operation Evaluation Department of the Bank for the
Maharashtra Petrochemical Project (the first phase of Nagothane complex) found that these standards were,
in general, similar to those adopted in industrialized countries.



I1
41.   Environment Tradition at IPCL. IPCL's policy requires strict compliance by its various units with
all environmental regulations during design, construction, and operation of all its facilities. IPCL has
continued to maintain its excellent environmental credentials through high environmental protection, and
plant safety standards and emergency response awareness systems. As a result, IPCL has won many
environmental and safety awards.
42.   Project Environmental Objectives. The main environmental objectives of the project were to (i)
design and operate project facilities to meet the relevant Indian and local discharge standards for liquid,
gaseous and solid wastes; (ii) monitor plant operation, effluent streams and ambient environment to test if
they comply with standards and to take corrective measures; (iii) design and operate facilities to meet the
relevant Indian national and local health and safety standards; (iv) conduct thorough safety-risk assessments
and incorporate their recommendations in the design of projects; and (v) prepare detailed safety manuals for
all project components. The environmental and safety performance of how these objectives were met are
discussed in detail in Annex 3 and summarized below.
The Nagothane Complex
43.    The Environmental Impact Assessment. At GOI's and Bank's request, IPCL completed a
comprehensive EIA for the project in 1989, which also provided comprehensive baseline data for both
phases of the complex. The EIA concluded that (i) no land acquisition and no additional housing were
needed, and the additional requirements in power and water would be supplied by the existing systems; (ii)
activities during construction would have only transitory impacts; and (iii) the main environmental impacts
would occur during operation. The main impacts identified were (a) increased emissions of airborne
pollutants; (b) increased fugitive and volatile emissions due to increased transportation of feedstock; (c)
increased wastewater discharge; and (c4) increased spent catalyst disposal. The EIA also stated that (iv) the
Nagothane complex already included a complete wastewater treatment system with enough capacity to treat
the increased volume of effluents; (v) the emissions would, after expansion, remain within the MPCB
(Maharashtra Pollution Control Board) limits for sulfur dioxide (SO2), oxides of nitrogen (NOx),
hydrocarbons, and particulate matter; and (vi) the spent catalyst would return to the manufacturer. The EIA
concluded that overall the project would have a minor negative impact on the environment, which could be
mitigated by proper measures.
44.   Environmental Mitigation Measures. The main mitigation measures incorporated in the design and
implementation of the first phase included the adoption of (i) efficient emissions control systems; (ii) a
comprehensive liquid effluent control and treatment system; (iii) solid waste management, including
recording and labeling of all hazardous waste produced; (iv) noise and odor control; (v) an environmental
monitoring and reporting system; (vi) environmental training and environmental awareness programs; (vii)
implementation of a large reforestation program and development of a green belt; and (viii) social
development programs. In addition, the C2/C3 feedstock and the natural gas preferably used in the power
plant contain negligible sulfur levels.
45.   Environment Monitoring Results. Monitoring results show that (i) the Nagothane complex meets
MPCB gaseous effluent standards and, except for particulate patter, they also meet Bank guidelines for the
petrochemical industry; (ii) ambient air quality largely meets the standards and pollutant levels have
changed little from before the start-up of the complex; (iii) treated effluents meet in all respects not only
MPCB standards but also the more demanding Bank guidelines, and furthermore, the effluent rejected in the
Amba river has lower pollutant levels than the raw water pumped from the same river; and (iv) the impact
of the wastewater discharge into the Amba river estuary has been negligible and water and sediment quality



12
is comparable to the 1990 baseline.
46.   Safety Measures. For the first phase of the complex, IPCL took safety measures, based on a Hazard
and Operability study (HAZOP) and risk analysis. Nevertheless, a failure in the Outside Battery Limit
(OSBL) area led to a serious accident6 in 1990 with a number of fatalities. IPCL has further reinforced its
safety system and efforts since and instituted many programs aimed at increasing safety consciousness
among personnel. The safety audit and risk analysis study which had been agreed upon at Appraisal was
being carried out in 1990, when it was disrupted by the accident, and it remained limited to the inside
battery limits of the complex. However, after the accident, a number of additional studies were carried oul:
in 1991 and 1992, mostly prepared or reviewed by foreign consultants. They included (i) a detailed safety
audit of the entire complex; (ii) a HAZOP and a risk analysis study for the OSBL area; (iii) an inspection
report of gas storage and off sites; (iv) a report on safety systems, including in the design and procedures fior
the OSBL facilities; and (v) a HAZOP study for all process plants. Most of the recommendations of these
studies regarding design changes, operating procedures, and safety and preventive measures were
incorporated in the design and operation of the first phase of the complex and of the project components. In
addition, GOI completed a special review in July 1992 (by the so-called Mashelkar commission) of the
causes, effects and remedial actions taken in relation to the accident, and all critical recommendations of
this audit were implemented.
47.    For the expansion sub-projects, a number of additional studies were also carried out and their
recommendations implemented. They included: (i) a disaster management plan completed in October 19911;
(ii) Safety Construction Audits, completed in April 1996 to audit the planning for the erection of the cracker
and HDPE expansions projects; (iii) HAZOP studies for the cracker and HDPE expansions completed in
January 1998. In addition, a risk analysis study is being carried out by M/S. Entec, UK and the final report
is expected by end October 1998. Finally, the on-site Disaster Management Plan which is being applied in
mock drills is being revised and its second edition is expected by July 1998.
48.   Safety System. A separate "Safety Manual" defines the safety rules, standards, procedures and
codes to be used at Nagothane. The safety system, described in Annex 3, includes safety committees,
auditing and inspection programs; training and awareness development programs; monitoring of equipment
and installations; work procedures; investigation, reporting and recording of accidents; and safety awards.
This safety system was found effective by all the consultants who carried out the above studies. IPCL
efforts have had results: except in 1995, the severity rate of accidents-number of days lost per million man
hours worked-fell from 663 in 1992 to 32 in 1994, 46 in 1996 and 19 in 1997.
49.   Environmental and Safety Organization. Environmental protection and safety activities at
Nagothane are the responsibility of two separate divisions of the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE)
Department headed a Deputy General Manager reporting directly to the Executive Director of the whole
complex. In May 1998, management was in the process of contracting a consultant to assist in the
implementation of an Environmental Management System at Nagothane in accordance with ISO 14001
norms aiming at obtaining certification. If implemented, this system will further improve environment and
safety in the complex.
The Vadodara Complex
50.    The Environmental Impact Assessment. At GOI's and Bank's request, IPCL completed a
6 This accident is fully documented in the Environmental Impact Evaluation and Project Completion Report of the
Maharashta Petrochemical Project (Loan 2505 IN) and in Bank files.



13
comprehensive EIA in February 1990. Some of the conclusions of the EIA were similar to those for
Nagothane-(i), (ii), (a), (b), (c) together with increased solid wastes, (iv), (v) with the reference standards
being those of the GPCB (Gujarat Pollution Control Board), and (vi) in paragraph 43. The operation of the
sub-projects was expected to have minor or positive impacts, as they reduce the overall pollution load of the
complex by replacing or modernizing existing old plants. Additional volumes of solid waste would be
minimal and could be used for land filling or incinerated.
51.   Environmental Mitigation Measures. Main mitigation measures adopted were similar to those
described in paragraph 44. In addition, preferential use of low sulfur natural gas, adequate stack height, and
four flare systems help IPCL maintain emissions and ambient air within standards.
52.   With respect to the cyanide emissions from the ACN plant, IPCL has installed a hot alkali digester
and a specially designed incinerator to reduce airborne cyanides. The cyanide level in the resulting
wastewater was reduced from 15-20 ppm to about 10 ppm, but remains higher than the current standard of
0.2 ppm. IPCL's R&D department at Vadodara has developed its own technology for cyanide biomass
digestion. IPCL is in the process of introducing this technology in its facilities and expects to meet the new
standards.
53.   The effluent treatment facilities were further revamped in parallel with project implementation to
increase their capacity and improve their efficiency. They were designed according to international
standards and, except for cyanide, the effluent stream meets the GPCB standards before being rejected
through the 55-kilometer joint venture Vadodara effluent channel.
54.   To improve hazardous solid management and comply with regulations and conditions of the last
operation authorization obtained from GPCB, IPCL has taken the following steps: (i) a hazardous waste
multi-purpose incinerator was installed and has been operating since March 1998; (ii) a safe solid waste
management and handling system is being developed, including a scientifically designed hazardous solid
waste deposit. By May 1998, ten acres of land had been acquired, a feasibility study had been completed,
and the National Productivity Council was hired to prepare the design of the system. Furthermore, a
comprehensive program to close down the existing waste disposal site has been initiated in consultation
with GPCB.
55.   In 1984, IPCL built 163 houses and infrastructure (including schools, electricity and water supply)
on 6 hectares of cattle grazing land in Koyali village to resettle the nearby Danhora village, deemed to pose
security risk due to its proximity to the Baroda complex. The project environmental impact assessment,
carried out in 1990, reported that the affected population, estimated at 300 families by then, never accepted
to move to the new village. As of 1998, still no solution had been found. According to IPCL, the affected
population insists on employment of all youths in Danhora by the company as a condition to moving, and
the new village, unoccupied for many years, has now deteriorated and would need more investments for its
recovery. IPCL and the local authorities should seek ways to resume negotiations with the villagers and
resolve this outstanding issue.
56.   Environment Monitoring Results. Monitoring results show that: (i) except for particulate matter,
ambient air quality as measured in 1988/89 for the EIA and in 1997/98 met the standards; (ii) Airborne
emissions of the complex as measured in 1988/89 and in 1997/98 met the standards, and, except for
particulate matter, they also met Bank guidelines for the petrochemical industry; (iii) current treated
effluents from the complex's central wastewater treatment not only meet all GPCB standards but also the
more demanding Bank guidelines and considerable improvement occurred as a result of revamping which
took place in parallel with project implementation; and (iv) noise level within the complex area was, during



14
the May 1998 external environmental audit, in line with the OSHA (U.S. Occupational Safety and Health
Administration) guidelines.
57.   Safety Measures. Since the start of the Vadodara complex, strong safety and emergency systems
and programs have been implemented by IPCL to minimize risks of accident, and these were also further
reinforced after the accident at Nagothane. However, the detailed safety audit, which was to be carried out
under the project before 30 September 1990, was delayed. In August 1995, an overall health and safety
audit was performed for the entire complex and updated/amended for each new plant. Detailed HAZOP
studies were carried out and a Disaster Management Plan was developed. For the sub-projects, HAZOP
studies were carried out during the period 1993-1995 and, following their review by the respective process
licensers, their recommendations were incorporated in plant designs. In addition, a Quantitative Risk
Assessment (QRA) was completed in November 1997 for the overall complex including the project
components which were also included in the existing emergency plan.
58.   Safety System. The safety system at Vadodara is similar to that at Nagothane and is described in
Annex 3.
59.   Environmental and Safety Organization. Environmental protection and safety activities are the
responsibility of two separate divisions which are headed respectively by the Environment and Ecology
Senior Manager and the Safety Chief Manager, both under the General Manager Operation who reports
directly to the Operation Director of the Vadodara complex.
C. Main Factors Affecting the Project
60.   The project was implemented with long delays. It was appraised on 6 February 1989, negotiated
nine months later on 1 1 December 1989, approved by the Board 18 months after Appraisal on 13 September
1990, signed on 7 November 1990, and became effective on 18 December 1990. Negotiations were initially
planned for May 1989, but took place only in December 1989 when GOI was able to take decisions
acceptable to the Bank on the price of C2/C3 for the Nagothane Complex. It then took more than eight
months to reach an agreement on the conditions for the Board presentation. They included (i) a letter from
GOI spelling out the feedstock C2/C3 supply arrangements, which could not be submitted before ONGC
obtained an environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forestry for debottlenecking its
gas separation unit in Uran (July 1990); and (ii) the submission of EIA reports acceptable to the Bank.
Delays in Implementation of the IPCL Component
61.   During implementation, the closing date was postponed twice for a total of 18 months for Loan
3259 to allow completion of works for the cracker and HDPE expansions at Nagothane. The final closing
date for IPCL's component was 31 March 1998. The major reasons for the delay were (i) delays in
obtaining final Government approvals for both IPCL and CIPET components; (ii) delays in the completion,
start-up and stabilization of the cracker and downstream LLDPE/HDPE plant at Nagothane, financed under
Loan 2505-IN (the first phase of the complex); and (iii) IPCL's decision to change the scope of the
components at Nagothane to optimize the use of the additional ethylene and deal with rapid technological
changes in the manufacture of HDPE. In addition, the decision to implement the Gandhar complex in
parallel, which was not financed by the Bank, created some constraints on IPCL's financial and manpower
capacity.



15
62.   Commencement of project implementation was seriously hampered by problems in obtaining GOI
final approvals, which resulted in a delay of more than 16 months.7 The clearances from the environmental
authorities, approval of the Public Investments Board (PIB) and final approval of the Cabinet were obtained
for IPCL components only during the first quarter of 1992. This problem became so critical that the Bank
was ready in January 1992 to suspend disbursements for the import component, which was justified on the
basis of the need to seed the market in preparation for production at the new plants. This problem could had
been avoided, had the PIB and cabinet final approvals been a condition for Board presentation.
63.   Long delays occurred in the completion of the first phase of the Nagothane complex, due to the
November 1990 explosion in the OSBL facilities, technical problems in the LLDPE/HDPE plant, and
subsequent disagreement between the process licenser and IPCL. Only in mid- 1994 did the operation of the
LLDPE/HDPE plant financed under the first phase improve and stabilize, following the implementation of
an audit and of the action plan finally agreed to between the licenser and IPCL. The Nagothane components
could not start, waiting about 26 months for full implementation of the first phase. Furthermore, the IPCL's
project team at Nagothane was probably very busy containing the damage and expediting the repairs
associated with the November 1990 accident. In contrast, implementation of the Vadodara components
started immediately after GOI's approval was obtained in March 1992, and proceeded without major delays
and were commissioned in September 1996, before the Loan Agreement closing date.
64.   Another 18-month delay was caused mainly by uncertainty about sufficient availability of C2/C3
from ONGC for MGCC expansion and about the optimum use of the increased production of ethylene from
the cracker expansion. Due to increased consumption of ethylene at the existing plants after their
stabilization subsequent to operation optimization, it appeared that there would not be sufficient ethylene
available from the projected cracker expansion for a new 75,000 tpy broad range molecular weight HDPE
train. Therefore, IPCL started studying the possibility of debottlenecking one of the existing LLDPE/HDPE
plants instead. Only by end 1995 was IPCL in a position to make a final decision on the HDPE plant
expansion, resulting in a change in the original scope. IPCL also decided to include a propane cracking unit
under the project to complement C2/C3 available from ONGC.
65.   This reassessment allowed IPCL to take advantage of recent developments in technology for the
manufacture of broad range HDPE (energy efficient super condensation technology, known as the pentane-
based process), enabling a considerable expansion in manufacturing capacity (60,000 tpy) through the
introduction of process modifications with considerable savings in capital and operating costs. However,
this change had implications on procurement procedures, which implied: (i) use of LIB rather than ICB
(international competitive bidding) as originally planned, due to confidentiality arrangements imposed by
the process licenser; (ii) procurement of the debottlenecking investments through an EPC contract to
compensate for delays; and (iii) detailed agreements with potential contractors, prolonging the selection of
the successful bidder. These changes in scope of services and procurement methods was approved by the
Board in February 1996, and required extension of the closing date.
66.   Overall, implementation of the Nagothane component was delayed by about 60 months, of which
16 months was subject to GOI control, 18 months was subject to IPCL control, and 26 months was due to
the November 1990 explosion and to the technical problems faced in stabilizing the LLDPE/HDPE plant
financed under the first phase. However, once the above changes in scope and procurement arrangements
were made, IPCL's experienced project team was able to implement the sub-projects in about two years.
' The delay stemmed in part from frequent changes in government during this period.



16
Delays in Implementation of the CIPET Technical Assistance Component
67.   The closing date for the CIPET Technical Assistance component (Loan 3258-IN) was postponed for
12 months. The final closing date was 30 September 1997. Although the project became effective on 18
December 1990, there was a significant delay initially due to CIPET's lack of familiarity with required
procedures for obtaining Government clearance, and GOI formally passed on the $12 million as a grant to
CIPET only in November 1993. Until then, procurement activities and effectiveness of the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) assistance contract were halted, resulting in a delay of
approximately three years. However, subsequently, implementation proceeded satisfactorily and CIPET
completed the project before the revised closing date.
D. Project Sustainability
Sustainability of Project Investments
68.   The sensitivity analysis presented in Table 9 shows that the cracker and HDPE expansion at
Nagothane remains viable under any of the hypotheses tested. The investments remain very attractive even
if all distortions associated with current gas pricing and tariff duties are eliminated and international prices
fall further. The robustness of the project economics will help ensure the sustainability of the MGCC
cracker even if shortages of C2/C3 develop (even if the cracker was operated using only 50% of its
additional capacity and the ethylene shortfall was imported for the HDPE plant, the economic rate of return
would still be about 30%).
69.   The project investments at Vadodara, however, would be much more vulnerable should tariff
protection be eliminated. While still viable under base case assumptions, their rate of return would be close
to zero if international prices fell by 20%. This is because internal transfer costs of raw materials from the
Vadodara naphtha cracker are high, due to its small size and old age, and the high price of domestic
naphtha. IPCL is aware of these limitations and is planning to replace the existing cracker with a 300,000
tpy new naphtha-based cracker, phase out the old downstream units, and increase imports of naphtha. If
implemented, these steps would help ensure the long-term sustainability of project investments.
Financial and Economic Sustainability of IPCL
70.   In the past eight years, IPCL has shown an ability to adjust to a changing policy environment and
finance a large expansion program while maintaining its profitability and a sound financial structure. It has
done so without depending in any way on Government budget resources. IPCL is one of the "nine gems"
among public enterprises which have gained substantial autonomy in management because of their good
financial performance, contribution to the exchequer and complete financial self-reliance. The challenges
IPCL will face in the future, however, are large. It should expect that the current distortions in feedstock
prices will eventually be eliminated and that tariff protection will further decrease to levels more in line with
international practice. These changes would have significant impacts, as shown below based on actual
financial results in 1997/98 and those projected by IPCL for the year 2001/02:



17
Net Income of IPCL (Million Rupees)
1997/98 (Actual)      2001/02 (Projected)
Current or Projected Net Income              2,437                  7,626
Eliminating Distortions in Feedstock Prices 8  - 912               - 2,292
Reducing Tariffs to 10% on Average          - 5,966                - 9,838
Net Income                                  - 4,441                - 4,504
71.    Concurrently with these likely changes and risks, IPCL has to face considerable competition from
the private sector, which is also planning major expansions. IPCL is aware of these challenges and is
actively planning the replacement of its outdated cracker at Vadodara and, in time, replacements, upgrading
or closure of other old, small downstream units. Substantial restructuring of the entire Vadodara site is
likely to be required for IPCL to maintain its profitability and competitiveness. Finally, IPCL is constructing
facilities for importing naphtha to lower its cost.
72.    Another uncertainty faced by IPCL is the reported shortage of natural gas in the fields supplying
C2/C3 to the Gandhar complex. It now appears that these fields will not be able to support the cracker
operating at full capacity, although the extent of the shortage is not clear. This uncertainty could be a major
threat to IPCL's sustainability, particularly since no long-term contract has been signed with the gas supplier
(GAIL). The Government has indicated that options were being reviewed and its was confident of resolving
this issue shortly.
73.    Overall, (i) because the policy environment has progressively become more conducive to
efficiency, including the procurement and pricing of naphtha; (ii) because IPCL now has two world- class
gas-based complexes; (iii) and because IPCL has modernization plans for Vadodara, there is no reason why
IPCL should not be able to continue to compete effectively on the domestic market (it is not likely to have
competitive advantages for exports) provided the Gandhar gas issue is satisfactorily resolved. For the
foregoing reasons, the sustainabilty of IPCL is rated as likely. Maintaining sustainability, however, would
be considerably facilitated if IPCL was under private ownership, which would help IPCL to proceed faster
with restructuring and major investment decisions and avoid losing ground to newcomers. Considering
IPCL's good financial record, it is difficult to see the rationale for IPCL remaining a public sector company.
It is likely that GOI, which has already privatized 40% of IPCL's share capital, will consider selling off its
majority control.
Environmental Sustainability of IPCL
74.    There is a very high level of environmental and safety consciousness at IPCL, particularly at
Nagothane. Although accidents like Bhopal and the explosion at the MGCC cracker site have certainly
contributed to it, the level of awareness was already high before the explosion. At Vadodara, IPCL has been
working on resolving two remaining issues: the implementation of the solid waste deposit (for which a site
has now been found and a feasibility study has been completed), and implementing measures to lower
cyanide levels in wastewater's from the ACN plant, to comply with today's more stringent Indian standards.
Environmental sustainability will be further enhanced at Nagothane if management proceeds with its plans
to establish environmental management systems according to ISO 14001 norms, and if Vadodara takes the
same decision. Because of these efforts on the part of IPCL, the environmental sustainability of the project
investments and of IPCL as a whole is rated as likely.
8 See Annex 2, Table A2.6. These estimates assume that the C2/C3 "subsidy" for Gandhar would be equal in amount
to that for Nagothane, since both crackers have the same capacity.



18
Sustainability of CIPET
75.   Section C has already discussed how CIPET has managed to steadily improve its financial self-
reliance and its prospects for reaching full self-sufficiency in a period of four to five years. It has also
described how CIPET is now poised to move into new areas as a result of its past efforts and of the project.
In order to move further into these areas, CIPET may need to develop a more commercial approach to
R&D, including a contractual policy and mechanisms for sharing into the results of research. While CIPET
has incorporated in its software purchase contract provisions for the upgrading of software, it also needs to
develop a policy and financing mechanisms for the replacement of equipment and machinery which tend to
become obsolete quickly. To reinforce its commercial orientation, it would be useful for CIPET to increase
representation of the industry in the Governing Council and in management. It is expected that these
changes will occur as CIPET reaches self-sufficiency. The sustainability of the CIPET component and of
CIPET itself are therefore rated as likely.
E. Bank Performance
76.   During Identification and Preparation, Bank teams properly identified all major policy issues
affecting the sector, and the project design as originally conceived (a hybrid operation with a policy-based
lending component and an investment component) corresponded well to the Bank strategy of sub-sector
lending at the time (Section A). As GOI was reluctant to formnally commit itself to policy changes, the scope
of the policy package was progressively reduced. The project team recognized the political constraints of
carrying out even hybrid operations which were akin to adjustment lending, as adjustment lending would
require the Bank to reach an understanding with GOI on key macro-economic parameters (in addition to
sub-sector specific policy objectives). Reaching such an agreement was considered impossible in an
election year, and Bank management decided to proceed with the project as an investment operation, with
policy conditions restricted to those critical for the economic viability of the project. At that point, there is
no evidence that the Bank ever considered removing the project from the lending program, or delaying its
processing until after the election, even though the rationale for Bank support was no longer clear (this
rationale was seriously questioned by some Bank Executive Directors at the time of Board approval).
77.   Appraisal and Negotiations proceeded on that basis. Within its limited policy mandate, the various
Bank teams attempted to deal with a less than optimum policy framework. When GOI raised tariffs on
plastic polymers in January 1990, Bank management informed the Government that the project would not
proceed to the Board presentation stage unless tariffs were rolled back substantially (this was done,
although not back to previous levels). Also, discussions during Appraisal probably contributed to the
increases in minimum economic sizes which were announced shortly before Negotiations. The Bank,
however, erred during Negotiations by accepting to change the wording of the C2/C3 pricing covenant (the
most important policy covenant) by eliminating from it the statement of principles on which this pricing
should be based, and accepting instead GOI's commitment to maintain this price at an appropriate level
(agreed upon in absolute value) and consult the Bank in case of change. As already discussed (Section B),
the negotiated wording allowed prices of C2/C3 to slip to levels much below the opportunity cost, while the
Government remained technically in compliance with its commitment.
78.   On all other grounds (technical, financial and environmental), the Bank performed satisfactorily,
even though the appraisal of the project may have been premature on technical grounds for the MGCC
expansion. The Board presentation was substantially delayed until all environmental issues were resolved
(satisfactory EIAs for Nagothane and Vadodara, environmental clearance of the upstream ONGC gas
separation plant). However, final Government clearances had not been obtained, and this subsequently



19
caused significant delays in project implementation which would have justified requesting these clearances
as the condition of Board approval.
79.   During implementation, Bank teams regularly followed up on the technical, financial, and
environmental aspects of the project, taking up implementation issues with IPCL and the Government. The
quality and continuity of Bank staff and consultants was good. Involvement of the Bank Delhi office in
procurement was a success, as it provided timely guidance to IPCL on Bank procedures and support and
speeded up the procurement process. Throughout implementation, the Bank closely monitored the financial
performance of IPCL. It also reviewed on a regular basis IPCL's efforts to carry out a series of safety and
risk assessments and to implement their recommendations, and insisted on the resolution of outstanding
environmental issues at Vadodara. The institutional perforrnance of CIPET was also regularly reviewed.
The Bank showed substantial flexibility in modifying the project design to match changing technological
and market conditions, and in adapting its procurement rules. With respect to the HDPE expansion
investment, a major change was required in design and procurement methods, more adapted to new
technologies with large requirements of special equipment, and confidentiality. This involved allowing a
very large EPC contract to be procured under LIB, an unusual procedure for the Bank, which was
nevertheless quickly processed through the Board.
80.   With respect to policy, until early 1994, Bank missions continued to raise the matter of high levels
of protection, but this concern disappeared subsequently as levels of protection decreased across the board.
Concerns about high naphtha prices were voiced throughout implementation because they directly affected
the financial performance of IPCL. These issues, together with recommendations to decrease the
Government's share in IPCL capital to below 50%, were formally raised several times with visiting
Government officials and with IPCL management. Beyond June 1991, there is no record of Bank teams
having reviewed minimum economic sizes or the sector investment program, but again such reviews had
become redundant or ineffective in light of the industrial sector deregulation. With respect to pricing of
C2/C3 , except during the last supervision mission in April 1998, there is no record of Bank teams having
reviewed the price of C2/C3 in relation to its opportunity cost and of having raised the issue of its
progressive relative decline. Even if the Bank had no legal means of obtaining a price realignment, because
this was the most important of the (modest) policy objectives of the project, the Bank could have raised this
issue in the framework of its general policy dialogue with the Government.
81.   The overall performance of the Bank in the financial, technical, institutional and environmental
aspects of the project was satisfactory. In the area of policy, however, it was deficient.
F. Borrower Performance
IPCL
82.   IPCL's performance in project preparation was satisfactory overall, as it demonstrated a strong
commitment to the project and met in a timely manner all necessary technical, financial, environmental and
institutional requirements from the Bank for the project to proceed as planned. It failed, however, to obtain
the necessary Government clearances and to alert the Bank of bottlenecks which these clearances could
create subsequently. Also, the MGCC expansion component was probably premature: the new cracker and
its downstream units had not started at the time, with resulting uncertainties in feedstock availability, in the
optimum allocation of ethylene to downstream units, and in the technology to be adopted for the new
downstream HDPE plant. At Nagothane, these uncertainties and the delays which occurred in the start-up
and stabilization of the downstream plants of the first phase of MGCC resulted in long delays in project
implementation.



20
83.    A tendency to be overly optimistic in planning also led to the parallel implementation of the
Gandhar complex, which for a while strained the implementation capacity and financial position of IPCL.
Once these problems were resolved, however, IPCL demonstrated a strong capacity to imp,lement the
project quickly and efficiently. There were no problems of counterpart funding. IPCL complied with all
other covenants with respect to procurement, reporting, accounting and auditing, and (except sporadically
and for a short time) its financial structure. IPCL's performance in the area of environment and safety at
both Vadodara and Nagothane is strong. The accident at Nagothane has further heightened IPCL's
environmental and safety consciousness, which was already high before the accident. The remaining issue's
at Vadodara (solid waste deposit and cyanide level in effluents) are being addressed satisfactorily. Overall,
therefore, the performance of IPCL was satisfactory.
CIPET
84.    The performance of CIPET was highly satisfactory. After the necessary Government approvals
were finally obtained, the project was implemented exactly as planned and within the original time-frame,,
CIPET created effective links with UNIDO to assist in the implementation of the training components of the
project. CIPET also made very good use of the ICB procedures, which it claims have resulted in savings of
up to 50% over list prices. CIPET has complied with all its obligations with respect to the yearly submission
of its training program, procurement, and project accounting and auditing. The institutional performance of
CIPET meanwhile has been excellent.
G. Assessment of Outcome
85.    The project achieved most of its major objectives and is expected to achieve its intended financial
and economic, institutional and environmental results. The project is likely to be sustainable. For these
reasons, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The (modest) policy objective of the project was one
major objective which was not achieved. However, since the policy framework in which the project
operates has, independently from the project, substantially improved since the project was approved, and
continued improvements are planned, the effect of this failure is less than it would have been otherwise. The
exception to this is the pricing of C2/C3, which is very specific to the petrochemical sector.
H. Future Operation
86.   In 1997/98, the project plants at Vadodara were only in their first or second year of operation, but
with results, in terms of capacity utilization, consistent with the Appraisal estimates for similar periods of
operation. These results are shown in Table 6A. At Nagothane, operations started on June 19, 1998, and
expectations are that IPCL will be able to run project plants at 100% of capacity, as planned at Appraisal, as
demonstrated by the production record of the plants which are being expanded (Table 6A). IPCL is a leader
in the production of plastic polymers, and with the addition of the Gandhar complex and its strong
nationwide distribution network, is expected to maintain its market share for these products. Limitations on
gas supplies at Nagothane will not permit further expansion of gas-based ethylene production capacity at the
site. As already explained in Section D, the installation of the project plants is part of a comprehensive
restructuring of the complex at Vadodara.
87.    With respect to CIPET, Section B has already discussed how the project has contributed to the
institutional improvement and updating of CIPET, and its ability to increase self-sufficiency. According to
CIPET, the equipment procured under the project is being utilized already at between 80% and 90% of its
capacity, and this use will increase as CIPET personnel becomes fully conversant with this sophisticated



21
equipment. Maintenance is not likely to be a problem, as a nucleus of staff has been trained abroad in the
operation and maintenance of the equipment, and these are now providing training to their subordinates and
students. CIPET, however, will need to develop a mechanism to deal with eventual obsolescence of this
kind of sophisticated equipment, even though the pace may be slower in India than in developed countries
under current policy conditions.
88.   Performance indicators did not appear as a separate annex in the Staff Appraisal Report, but they
can be extracted from the text and the cost/benefit analysis in the report and other preparation reports
prepared by IPCL and CIPET. The most relevant performance indicators for project operation which should
be followed in the future are presented in Table 6 for both IPCL (Table 6A) and CIPET (Table 6B).
Adequate monitoring systems exist in both institutions to permit their review.
89.   No follow-up operation has been financed by the Bank. The type of support provided to IPCL no
longer fits into Bank strategy for India and elsewhere. Continued support to CIPET could not justify an
operation by itself, due to its small amount, but would be worthwhile if it could be included in another
operation providing support to R&D and training institutions (possibly a science and technology project).
90.    It is suggested that the Bank follow up on the issue of C2/C3 pricing with GOI in the broader
context of energy sector operations, as this was one of the major objectives of the project which were not
achieved. Even though the Government has been moving towards natural gas prices more in line with
opportunity cost, its current objective in that respect does not go quite far enough. For C2/C3, there is no
justification to maintain an implicit subsidy detrimental to IPCL's competitors. Other issues of taxation and
tariff protection are not specific to the petrochemical sector and need to be addressed in a broad macro-
economic context.
I. Key Lessons Learned
91.   The major lessons which emerge from implementation of the project are the following:
*  Sub-sector approaches supported by hybrid operations (combined policy-based and investment
lending) are not effective ways of addressing distortions in a sub-sector when these same distortions
prevail throughout the economy. It is not possible, nor recommended, to treat the trade regime of a
specific sub-sector in isolation from other sub-sectors, nor is it possible to treat natural gas pricing
for the petrochemical sector in isolation from natural gas pricing in general and more generally
energy pricing, without creating additional distortions in the long term. The Bank has recognized
this problem since and has focused its strategy more towards supporting wide trade reform and
energy sector reform.
*  Pricing covenants should always state the principles on which prices are to be calculated and should
provide for periodic formal reviews.
*  Support to upgrade the technological basis of institutions such as CIPET is valuable and worthy of
Bank support when the institution at the same time has close ties with its clientele and incentives to
optimize the financial return from the equipment and technical assistance financed under the
project.
*  Expansion investments should not be approved until production of existing plants has stabilized, or
at least started, permitting an optimization of project design based on experience with the existing
plants, and avoiding possible delays and design changes.
*  Requirements for timely EIAs and safety studies, well prepared by internationally recognized firms
with state-of-the-art knowledge in the area, are effective in strengthening and modernizing
environmental and safety systems in fin-ns.



22
* All government approvals in India, including PIB, Cabinet, and environmental licenses, should be
required as the condition for Board presentation.
*  Decentralization of procurement review to field offices is effective in speeding up the process and
providing timely guidance to the borrower. Field offices could also perhaps provide more support to
visiting teams in other areas, such as monitoring policies in areas relevant to the project (for
instance, here, energy pricing) and flag potential issues.
*  For expansion projects, direct contracting or possibly LIB procurement procedures could be
considered under special circumstances to accommodate the increased requirements of equipment
recommended by process licensers and specific needs for standardization.



23
PART II: Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial     Partial      Negligible       Not
applicable
Macro policies                                                                      x
Sector Policies                                                      x
Financial Objectives                     x
Institutional Development                x
Physical Objectives                      x
Poverty Reduction                                                                   x
Gender Issues                                                                       x
Other Social Objectives                                                             x
Environmental Objectives                 x
Public Sector Management                                                            x
Private Sector Development                                                          x
Likely       Unlikely      Uncertain
B. Project Sustainability                x
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                                         x
Preparation Assistance                                 x
Appraisal                                              x
Supervision                                            xi
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                                            x
Implementation:
Provision of counterpart funds        x
Project Coordination Units            x
Covenant Compliance                                    x
E - Beneficiary Performance (CIPET)      x
H44jy                                     Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
F. Assessment of Outcome                               x
Except for policy aspects



24
Table 2 - Related Bank LosTns/Creditsl
Brazi                  Purpose              Year of          Status           Loan in
Loan Credl                                    ER LTpp2                          Millions of
lus$
Ln 2505-IN          Maharashtra Petrochemical     March    Closed: 09/30/1991         300.0
Project                        1985     PCR 1 604 dated
01/29/1993
Ln 2729/2730 111    Cooperative Fertizer Industry  July 1986   Closed: 06/30/1993     256.9
Project                                 PCR 14007 dated
0>3/1/1995
Ln 241 5 IN         Madya Pradesh Fertilizer     Mav 1984   Closed: 06/30/1992        167.1
Project                                 PCR 11995 dated
06/l5/1993
Cr I 125 IN          lazira Fertilizer Project   May 1981   Closed: 06/30/1988        400.0
PCR 6853 dated
06/30/1987
Ln224 IN l          Sou,th Basseln Offshore Gs    Februa'   Closed 12/31/1988         222.3
Development Project            1983     PCR 9392 dated
03/04/1991
Ln 3344-IN          Petoleu'mi Transport Project   April 1989  Closed 06/30/1995;     340.0
PCR 9986 dated
03/17/1997
Ln 2904= DN          Westem rGas Development     February   Closed 06/30/94           295.0
Project                        1988     PCR 9896 dated
04/30/1995
Ln 1925 IN          Second Bombay High           December  Closed 03/31/1984          400.0
Offshore Development           1980     PCR 6237 dated
Project                                 12/i 1/1985
Ln 2785-`N          Oil India Petroleum Project   March    Closed 09/30/94            140.0
1987     PCR 9952 dated
09/20/95
Ln 2403- IN         Cambay Basin Petroleum        March    Closed 10/31/1992          242.5
Project                        1984     PCR 13683 dated
06/20/1994
Petrochem ical projects (5including gas-based ammonia and ammonia-based fertilizer production), and projects for the
developrnent or transportation of petrochemical inputs (natural gas, petroleum products)



25
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned!       Date actual/latest
estimate
Identiflcation 2                                                         October 16, 1987
Preparation                                                               March23, 1988
Pre-appraisal                                                            October 10, 1988
Appraisal                                              May 1989           February 6, 1989
Negotiations                                                             December 11, 1989
Board Presentation                                    March 1990        September 13, 1990
Signing                                                                  November 7, 1990
Effectiveness                                       February 5, 1991    December 18, 1990
Midterm Review                                        June 19943          April 23, 1996
Project Completion
- Loan 3258 IN
* Nagotane Complex Sub-projects             March 31, 1996    Expected for June 19984
* Baroda Complex Sub-projects               March 31, 1996       September 19965
-Loan 3259 IN                                    March 31, 1996        November 1997
Loan Closing
- Loan 3258 - IN6                                September 30, 1996     March 31, 1998
- Loan 3259 - IN7                                September 30, 1996    September 30, 1997
Planned dates for Appraisal and Board presentation are as in Project brief.
2 This project is a follow-up to the Maharashta Petrochemical Project (Loan 2505 - IN), completed and
closed in September 1991.
'No mid-term review was required under the Loan Agreement. However, in view of changes in the
economic environment and technical problems faced by the Nagothane HDPE/LLDPE existing plant, IPCL
and the Bank decided to carry out a mid-term review mission by mid- 1994. This mission was later-on
delayed, pending resolution of the following two issues: (i) poor operation of the existing HDPE/LLDPE
plant at Nagothane; and (ii) pending decision on technology for the new plant
I The Nagothane Ethylene and HDPE/LLDPE expansions were not yet completed as of the end of May
1998. They were expected to be completed and hooked-up in May 1998 and commissioned in June 1998.
1 Commercial operation started in January 1997.
6 On September 6, 1996, the closing date of Loan 3258 was extended to September 30, 1997.
7 For IPCL component (Loan 3259), the Loan Agreement was amended twice to extend the Closing date:
(i) in January 1996, it was extended to September 30, 1997; and (ii) in September 4, 1997, it was extended
to March 31, 1998.



26
Table 4- Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank FY                         Cumulative Loan Disbursement
and Semester   Appraisal                   Actual                      Actual as
Endinq       Estimate Ln 3258 - CIPET   Ln 3259 - IPCL  Total     % of Estimate
1991  Jun. 1991    29.00         1.00          20.16         21.16         73.0
1992  Dec. 1991   58.00          1.00          42.31         43.31         74.7
Jun. 1992    87.00        1.00          70.48         71.48          82.2
1993  Dec. 1992   127.00         1.00          73.37         74.37         58.6
Jun. 1993   167.00        1.00          76.26         77.26          46.3
1994  Dec. 1993   191.50         1.00          83.94         84.94         44.4
Jun. 1994   216.00        1.00          87.21         88.21          40.8
1995  Dec. 1994   226.50         1.76          90.74         92.50         40.8
Jun. 1995   237.00        2.69          101.46       104.15          43.9
1996  Dec. 1995   240.00         2.69          108.38       111.07         46.3
Jun. 1996   244.00        3.20          121.59       124.79          51.1
1997  Dec. 1996   244.50         7.07          127.01       134.08         54.8
Jun. 1997   245.00       10.12          131.93       142.05          58.0
1998  Dec.1997                  11.34          136.04       147.38         60.2
Jun. 1998                11.86          140.01       151.87          62.0
1999  Aug. 1998                 11.86          145.40       157.26         64.2
Date of Final Disbursement: Feb. 28, 1998 for Ln 3258 and Aug. 31, 1998 for Ln 3259
300.00
250.00
200.00
E150.00
100.00
50.00
0.00   g l | :|
1991 1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Bank FY
-O- Estimate   ---Ln 3259- IPCL  A Ln 3258 - CIPET  X Total
Notes:
Loan 3258 - IN.
About US$ 135,731 remained undisbursed at loan closing and were canceled.
Loan 3259 - IN
The following cancellations took place: (i) US$ 30.3 million as of June 1, 1994, from the seeding
program component (materials under part B of the project); (ii) US$40 million as of October 31, 1995,
of which US$19 million from the unallocated Categories and US21 million from Category 3; and
(iii) at loan closing, US$17.3 remained undisbursed an were cancelled.



27
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A - IPCL
Key implementation                  Estimated                                             Actual
indicators
Nagothane Complex
Ethylene        . Expansion of existing ethylene cracker  . 100,000 tpy increase to 400,000 tpy ethylene production.
Cracker         from 300,000 tpy to 400,000 tpy
Expansion                                                . Process Technology: idem license was already provided in the earlier
. Process Technology: Stone & Webster   agreement with Stone and Webster.
technology (USA) as in the basic
configuration.                          . Detailed Engineering and project implementation, monitoring and control
by EIL.
. Detailed Engineering and project support
by Engineers India Ltd (EIL.            . As of March 31, 1998, the tie-in with the main plant was scheduled at the
end of April 1998 during a 45 days shut down and commissioning was
. Plant start-up expected before end of  expected by end of June 1998.
June1993
*   LLDPEIHDPE       . Expansion of the LLDPEIHDPE plant       Capacity expansion of the existing LLDPE/HDPE plant from 160,000 tpy
Expansion       (consisting of two swing trains with a capacity  to 220,000 tpy. The incremental 60,000 tpy of broad range molecular weight
of 80,000 tpy LLDPE or 55,000 tpy HDPE  HDPE will be obtained through the de-bottlenecking and upgrading of one of
each), to include a new 75,000 tpy broad  the existing two trains using a newly commercially available technology
range molecular weight HDPE train.      (pentane based process), resulting in substantial savings in capital and
operating costs. This change in project objectives and the need for
contracting the revamping using LIB procedures needed an amendment to the
loan agreement and its approval by the World Bank Board.
. Process Technology: idem BP Chemicals licensed also the new unit.
Process Technology: from BP Chemicals    The revamping was implemented by Samsung (South Korea) under an
(UK), which is the original licenser of the  Engineering, Procurement and Construction contract (EPC).
LLDPE/HDPE,                             Overall project implementation monitoring and control was provided by EIL.
Process Information package preparation and enginieering design were
Detailed Engineering and project      provided by Technip (France).
implementation, monitoring and control by
EUL.                                    . As of March 31, 1998, the tie-in with the main plant was scheduled at the
end of April 1998 during a 45 days shut down and commissioning was
expected by end of June 1998.
. Plant start-up expected before end of
June1993
*   Wires and        . Setting up a second 12,500 tpy unit,  . IPCL opted to cancel the development of additional capacity of wire and
Cables          doubling the capacity of the plant to 25,000    cables production because: (a) the market for high grades of wire materials
Polyethylene    tpy.                                     did not materialized to the extend originally envisaged; (b) imported
Compounding                                              materials had already covered the limited demand at prices well below those
Plant                                                    originally considered; and (c) the technical specifications of the products
required in the domestic market had not yet justified additional investments
in higher grades.
*   Additional       Was not considered in the project at appraisal.  . During project implementation it appears that an additional N2/02
Nitrogen/Oxyge                                           separation unit will be required for the additional capacity of HDPE. It was
n (N2/02)                                               therefore decided to include under the project the construction of a third train
Separation Third                                        (4,OOONM3/hr N2 and 2,000 NM3/hr 02.
Chain
It was provided by Air Liquide Engg. India Ltd. under an EPC contract
signed in mid-December 1996.
Project implementation monitoring and control was provided by MECON.
As of mid-April 1998, construction of this train was practically completed.



28
Key implementation indicators                   Estimated                                     Actual
Yadodara Comlex
*   Polypropylene Plant             . Setting up a new 60,000 tpy polypropylene    new 75,000 tpy polypropylene unit. The decision to
unit.                                   increase the capacity was a consequence of GOI's
decision to increase the minimum economic size for
polypropylene plants.
. Process technology: Hymont (UK).     . Process technology: idem, improved Himont spheripol
technology from TCM/Montell..
. Detailed Engineering and project     . Detailed engineering and project implementation support
implementation, monitoring and control by  by Technimont India Pvt Ltd. Under a contract signed by
EIL or through tumkey arrangements.    mid-1992.
. Start-up: expected before the end of  . Commissioning took during September 1996 and
December 1993.                         commercial production in January 97.
*   Extraction of Butadiene Extraction    . Rehabilitation of the existing butadiene  . Rehabilitation of existing butadiene plant to increase its
extraction plant                       capacity by 15,500 tpy, up to a total of 37,760 tpy
. Process technology: was not yet specified    . BASF/LUMMUS
. Detailed Engineering and project     . Detailed engineering and project support contract with
implementation, monitoring and control by    Intemational Development and Engineering Associate
EIL or through turnkey arrangements.   Ltd. (IDEA) signed early in April 1992.
. Start-up: expected before the end of  Commissioning was started in September 1996 and
December 1993                          commercial production in November 96.
*   Polybutadiene Rubber Plant      . Expansion of the existing Polybutadiene  . idem through the construction of an additional 30,000
complex from 20,000 tpy to 50,000 tpy to  tpy PBR plant
using increased production of butadiene
through the rehabilitation of the existing
butadiene plant financed under the project and
Nagotane production.
. Process technology: Japan Syntectic  . Idem, Japan Syntectic Rubber (Japan).
Rubber (Japan).
. Detailed Engineering and project     . Detailed engineering and project support by Toyo
implementation, monitoring and control by  Engineering India Ltd. (TEIL) under contract signed by
EIL or through tumkey arrangements.    mid-1992.
. Start-up: expected before March 1994  . Commissioning took place in September 1996
and commercial production in January 97
*   Engineering Plastics Unit         Setting up a new 7,500 tpy unit at Vadodara  . Funding of this plant under the project was cancelecl at
for the manufacture of blends and composites  IPCL's request. This unit was implemented under a joint
of polycarbonate and polyethylene oxide.  venture with GE Plastics and financed with their own
Technology and engineering arrangements    resources.
were secured through ajoint venture
arrangement with General Electric Plastics
(GE).
Minor Schemes of De-botileneckink
*   Energy Conservation Measures at    Heat recovery from the xylene plant and
Vadodara                       replacement of a steam turbine.
*   Incinerators in ACN and         installation of an incinerator at the VCM/PVC  An incinerator was installed in the ACN unit. (****It is
PVC/VCM plants                  plant and replacement of the existing   not yet clear if this incinerator was implemented under the
incinerator at the ACN plant by a high  project).
performance with heat recovery unit.
*   Revamp of Naphta Craker at      Revamping of the pyrolysis furnaces
Vadodara



29
Key implementation indicators                     Estimated                                       Actual
*   Modemization of Plant Control     Replace obsolete instruments by modem     The instrument control system of the naphta cracker was
Systems                          computerized control system to improve    replaced by modem DCS system and gas chromatographs
efficiency and reduce operating costs.   and analysers. The project was successfully implemented
with the plant operating without affecting the production.
with EIL was consultant in project implementation. The
project is completed and operate successfully.
*   Modemization of the Ammonia       install satellite ammonia refrigeration systems
Refrigeration System             to meet the new and expanded plants.
Safety Risk Assessments
Conduct a thorough risk assessment and
incorporate recommendations in the
design of the expansions.
*   Expansions in Nagothane           . Report to be ready by December 1990     . Safety audit of Nagothane was done in time, but in
view of the November 1990 accident, GOI and the Bank
required a more detailed audit This second audit was also
completed by *** and its recommendations implemented.
The safety audit for Vadodara was delayed. During the
*   Expansions in Vadodara            . Report to be ready by September 1991    May 1994 mission, the Bank considered that the risk
assessment and hazard evaluation prepared respectively
by CISR and Cramer, and recently sent to the Bank, were
predated to LA and were not in compliance with it.
During 1994 an overall safety audit was performed for
each complex and amended for each new plant.
Furthermore, detailed HAZOP studies took place and
Disaster Management plans developed.
Market Development
Import of special grades of LLDPE, PP,
PBR and HDPE for IPCL's seeding
program
tons
*   Quantities of Polymers              LLDPE   35,000
HDPE    20,000
PP       10,000
PBR       8,000
*   Total Cost                          USS75,000



30
B- Tecnnical Assistance for CIPET
Key implementation indicators                       Estimated 1/                                     Actual
1.  Overseas Training
*   Fellowships for CIPET faculty for  56 man-months- cost: US$600,000         43 staff trained in latest developments in areas of design,
training in latest developments in the                                    tooling, processing and testing; and 58 in
areas of design, tooling, processing                                       operation/maintenance of equipment purchased under the
and testing.                                                               project (56 still in CIPET)- Actual cost: USS570,000.
*   study tours for CIPETstaff to identify   4 study tours- cost: US$40,000    6 study tours- cost:US$70,000
institutions and potential for
partemship.
*   Foreign consultants and visiting   Foreign consultants and visiting experts to  4 visiting experts; and foreign participants to plastic
experts to provide training to CIPET    provide training to CIPET staff.  recycling and waste management seminar. Cost:
staff.                                                                     US$170,000.
2. Equipment
*   Acquisition of High Tec. Computer    - 21 pieces of equipment (with        96 pieces purchased (with accompanying software),
Aided Design (CAD) machines and    accompanying software) for Madras Hdqrs,   grouped into 18 ICB packages. Cost: USSI 1.054 million.
software, Computerized Numerically   and 77 for 4 new extension centers, totalling
Controlled (CNC) and other        98 pieces. Cost: US$11.34 million.
machinery for tooling, processing,
testing and design at CIPET's
headquarters in Madras and its
extension centers.
3. Building Improvements.
*   Construction of new facility in Madras
to house CAD/CAM center, minor     Cost: US$0.6 million                    Cost: US$0.4 million.
supporting facilities for, and erection
of, newly acquired equipment.
1/ Estimated targets are those presented in CIPETs final submission to the Bank ("Modernization of CIPET Facilities- A Project Profile", dated December
1989).



31
Table 6A - Key Indicators for Project Operation - IPCL Component
(a) - Production Capacity and Actual versus Estimated Production of Project Investments
90/91 91/92 92/93 93/94 94/9S  95/96  96/97  97/98  98/99  99/00  00/01   01/02
Vadodara Complex            Incremental                                                                        and After
Capacit
Polypropylene
Estimated at Appraisal           60,000                       36,000 48,000 60,000 60,000 60,000 60,000 60,000   60,000
Actual/projected                 75,000                                      2,900 55,000 65,000 70,000 75,000   75,000
Butadiene Extraction
Estimated at Appraisal           15,500                        11,625 13,950 15,500 15,500 15,500 15,500 15,500   15,500
Actual/projected                 15,500                                              8,000 14,000 15,000 15,500   15,500
Polybutadiene Rubber
Estimated at Appraisal           30,000                       22,500 27,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000   30,000
Actual/projected                 30,000                                       2,100 14,000 25,000 28,500 30,000   30,000
Na!othane Complex
Ethylene Cracker Expansion
- EthyleneProduction
Estimated at Appraisal          100,000                 60,000 80,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000  100,000
Actual/projected                100,000                                                    20,000 80,000 90,000  100,000
- PropyleneProduction
Estimated at Appraisal           20,600                 12,360 16,480 20,600 20,600 20,600 20,600 20,600 20,600   20,600
Actual/projected                 20,600                                                     4,100 16,500 18,500   20,600
HDPE
Estimated at Appraisal           75,000                       45,000 67,500 75,000 75,000 75,000 75,000 75,000   75,000
Actual/projected                 60,000                                                    27,000 48,000 54,000   57,000



32
Table 6A - Key Indicators for Project Operation - IPCL Component
(b) - IPCL's Production Capacity and Historical Production
Capacity FY88/89 FY89/90 FY90/91 FY91/92 FY92/93 FY93/94 FY94/95 FY95/96 FY96/97 FY97/98
Vadodara Complex        tons/year
Para-Xylene                48,600  13,016   7,142  19,714  32,687  29,972  21,099  27,905  41,250  14,874  33,288
Ortho-Xylene               45,400  22,780  11,946  15,575  28,328  27,164  11,512  20,255  25,731   9,109
DMT                        30,000  30,031  28,014  26,466  30,278  27,141  27,550  28,352  29,629  25,130  25,900
Ethylene                  130,000 120,929 116,353 121,806 125,007  124,174 124,156 128,048 123,769 127,319 133,598
Propylene (PG)             38,000  37,982  36,660  35,006  33,522  39,346  33,470  33,259  35,560  30,962  35,723
Propylene (CG)             44,300  30,785  31,598  34,643  35,535  34,526  36,148  37,009  38,908  43,940  38,175
Butadiene                  37,600  14,793  15,189  15,336  17,471  17,704  14,021  19,206  21,098  11,565  23,995
Benzene                    23,600  29,261  30,018  31,656  33,378  29,873  27,254  28,506  31,325  28,404  30,907
Propylene (FPU)            26,160   9,486  19,916  25,344  23,721  30,744  28,893  30,357  30,759  28,454  31,741
Acrylonitrile              30,000  20,317  25,211  26,100  26,210  26,625  26,012  26,508  26,598  27,467  27,601
PBR (old plant)            20,000  15,637  15,123  15,277  17,366  17,377  14,728  19,319  21,446  13,861  33,460
PBR (new plant)            30,000
LAB                        43,500  31,719  16,226  38,006  42,483  44,088  50,231  51,031  55,058  52,197  51,741
PP (old plant)             30,000  29,090  27,979  24,153  23,630  26,678  24,631  22,872  24,713  19,558  28,777
PP (new plant)             75:000                                                                         55,058
Ethylene Glycol            20,000  10,268   9,879   9,193   8,950   8,671   8,552  10,014   7,569   7,434  11,038
Ethylene Oxide             10,000   6,771   8,361   7,977   8,579   7,217   8,218   7,959   6,583   8,175   8,423
LDPE                       80,000  82,621  76,219  81,921  80,202  82,155  80,701  83,121  78,335  80,131  80,003
Acrylate                   10,000   2,923   3,720   5,021   6,264   5,965   6,811   8,758   8,695   9,332   9,402
PVC                        55,000  43,241  40,557  44,240  45,569  50,870  50,711  52,757  54,254  53,010  51,319
VCM                        57,300  44,050  41,253  45,047  46,206  51,531  50,669  54,115  55,122  55,155  55,158
Petroleum Resin             5,000   3,400   4,338   4,501   4,129   3,551   2,659   2,326   3,924   2,058      0
Acrylic Fiber              12,000  12,437  12,389  11,472  11,761  11,404   9,820  10,829  11,702  10,784  10,638
DSAF                       12,000   1,837   5,161   6,247   6,621   6,919   8,434   8,637   7,566   7,610   8,132
PPCP                       25,000   9,608  16,591  22,209  20,240  27,141  24,594  26,244  28,275  25,790  28,777
Nagothane Complex
Ethylene                  300,000                          34,352 137,119 165,497 256,471 302,640 303,009 331,770
Propylene                  63,000                          20,851  46,411  37,876  57,268  62,921  67,194  68,317
PP                         60,000                    711  24,283  38,702  40,804  53,954  57,979  60,661  62,258
LDPE                       80,000                          12,421  60,963  65,154  74,354  87,813  83,932  88,098
LLDPE                      85,000                                   2,397  22,598  49,092  51,742  44,212  68,664
HDPE                       50,000                             20  15,216  27,809  58,492  78,773  94,468  93,987
Ethylene Glycol            50,000                           1,606  18,638  25,024  44,233  45,612  46,211  48,202
Ethylene Oxide              5,000                                            671   3,325   4,326   4,638   8,423
Buthene -1                 15,000                            155    783   3,019   5,915   6,049   5,458   n.a
Wire & Cables              12,500                                   1,271    788   2,838   8,460  10,530   n.a
Gandhar Complex
PVC                       150,000                                                                  10,731 102,431
VCM                       170,000                                                                     25  90,827
Caustic Soda              130,000                                                                         73,689
62,914



Table 6A - Key Indicators for Project Operation - IPCL Component
(c) - Summary of Financial Performance Actual Compared to Appraisal Forecast
Covenant         FY89/90               FY90191               FY91/92                FY92/93               FY93/94                FY94/95
Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual
Total Sales (thousand tons)                          403.6      452.3       562.9      454.2      697.2      531.3      745.8      583.4      840.4       625.7      928.7      773.6
Net Sales Revenues                                   8,400    10,062      13,532     11,079     17,401     16,053     19,867     17,153     23,928      16,945     28,688     25,460
Income Before Tax                                    1,659        958       1,256       465       3,086       518       3,762      1,311      5,477        892       7,715      6,044
Net Mncome                                           1,410        812       1,068       572       2,623        550      3,197      1,318      3,547         892      3,831      5,623
Depreciation                                           656        638      2,091        918       2,204      1,689      2,279      2,229      2,531       1,080      2,962       1,214
Internal Cash Generation                             2,067       1,450      3,159      1,490     4,827       2,239      5,477      3,547      6,078       1,972      6,793      6,837
Invesment                                            3,694      3,428       1,919     2,539       3,160      4,090      2,591      2,854      1,719       3,427        533      5,072
Current Assets                                       4,660      4,429       6,972      6,065      8,962      7,866     11,925     10,840     14,695      13,334     19,617     15,606
Net Fixed Assets                                    15,189      8,292      14,618      8,374     13,562     15,897     11,840     15,771     14,898      19,785     13,515     19,637
Total Assets                                        20,384     20,827     22,524     24,124     25,469      28,441     28,744     32,171     30,702      37,204     33,195     43,679
Current Liabilities                                  2,737      2,519       3,169     4,300       3,291      4,071      3,188      4,436      3,646       4,906      4,081      5,537
Short Term Loan Funds 1/                                 0       1,217       500       1,529        300      2,384          0      2,598          0       4,262          0       1,643
Net Equity                                           7,103      6,505       7,985      6,966     10,471      7,297     13,338      9,677     16,508      12,859     19,938      19,912
Total Liabilities and Equity                        20,384     20,827      22,524    24,124      25,469    28,440      28,395     32,231     29,330      37,263     33,195     43,739
Long Term Debt                                      10,544      10,586     10,870     11,329     11,407     14,688     11,869     15,520       9,176     15,236      9,176      16,647
Interest on Long Term Debt                             145       1,116      1,268      1,235      1,284      1,557      1,265       1,726      1,359      1,710       1,242      1,969
Long Term Debt Repayment                              20.0        645          20        -14        230        319        350       1,719      1,777      1,916       1,423      3,497
Income Before Tax/Net Sales (%)                        19.8        9.5        9.3        4.2       17.7        3.2       18.9        7.6        22.9        5.3       26.9        23.7
Return on Capital Employed (%)                         14.7       12.3        6.7        4.6       15.6        3.3       17.6         5.9       22.4        3.4       25.9        20.3
Wb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
Self Financing Ratio (%)                                48          7          82         55         76         55         69        100          73         52         90         100
Contribution to the Exchequer                        2,328      2,264       3,753      2,588      4,929      3,266      5,507      5,307       8,431      4,598      11,734      6,888
Source: SAR and IPCL
1/ Excluding current portion of long-term debt.



Table 6A - Key Indicators for Project Operation - IPCL Component
(d) - Summary of Financial Performance and Projections
Covenant  FY89/90 FY90/91  FIY9I   FY92/93  FY93/L4 PY94/95 FY95IP6 FY96/7 FY97/9[  FY98/99  FY99100 FYOO/IO1  FYO1l/
Actua                                                    Projected
Total Sales (thousand tons)                   452.3    454.2    531.3    583.4    625.7    773.6    843.8    814.5  1,002.2   1154.8   1437.1   1471.8   1477.8
Net Sales Revenues                           10,062   11,079   16,053   17.153   16,945   25,460   31,028   27,854   29,829   36,898   47,213   48,874   49,189
Income Before Tax                               958      465      518    1,311      892    6,044    9,701    5,931    2,724    6,065    9,071   11,013   11,206
Net Income                                      812      572      550    1,318      892    5,623    6,037    5,102    2,437    5,428    7,431    8,012    7,626
Depreciation                                    638      918    1,689    2,229    1,080    1,214    1,225    1,522    2,373    2,549    3,408    3,408    3,408
Internal Cash Generation                      1,450    1,490    2,239    3,547    1,972    6,837    7,262    6,624    4,810    7,977   10,839   11,420   11,034
Invesment                                     3,428    2,539    4,090    2,854    3,427    5,072    8,742   10,456   12,062    9,250    1,010    1,170    1,160
Current Assets                                4,429    6,065    7,866   10,840   13,334   15,606   18,972   26,333   30,674    20942    27696    31374    37427
Net Fixed Assets                              8,292    8,374   15,897   15,771   19,785   19,637   19,631   38,095   38,673    60781    59383    57145    54897
Total Assets                                 20,827   24,124   28,441   32,171   37,204   43,679   54,615   71,312   87,727    84360    88716    90156    93961
Current Liabilities                           2,519    4,300    4,071    4,436    4,906    5,537    9,245    9,450   14,069     9850    10050    10250    10450           w
Short Term Loan Funds 1/                       1,217    1,529    2,384    2,598    4,262    1,643    4,664    5,621    6,010       0         0        0        0
Net Equity                                    6,505    6,966    7,297    9,677   12,859   19,912   24,971   28,993   30,768    35811    41756    48165    54266
Total Liabilifies and Equity                 20,827   24,124   28,440   32,231   37,263   43,739   54,676   71,372   87,727   84,359   88,715   90,154   93,960
Long Term Debt                                10,586   11,329   14,688   15,520   15,236   16,647   15,796   27,308   36,880   38,698   36,909   31,739   29,244
Interest on Long Term Debt                     1,116    1,235    1,557    1,726    1,710    1,969    1,901    2,126    3,194    2,396    3,614    3,170    2,924
Long Term Debt Repayment                        645      -14      319    1,719    1,916    3,497    5,791    1,454    2,781    1,799    5,170    2,495    8,980
Income Before Tax/Net Sales (%)                 9.5      4.2      3.2      7.6      5.3    23.7      31.3     21.3      9.1      16.4     19.2     22.5     22.8
Return on Capital Employed (%)                 12.3      4.6      3.3      5.9      3.4    20.3      33.0      13.0     5.0      10.0     11.7     13.9      13.5
Self Financing Ratio (%)                          7       55       55      100       52      100       83       63       40       86       100      100      100
Contribution to the Exchequer                 2,264    2,588    3,266    5,307    4,598    6,888   10,673    7,271    7,690     8016    11082    12776    13418
Source: IPCL
1/ Excluding current portion of long term debt.



35
Table 6A- Key Indicators for Project Operation- IPCL Component
(e)- Supply, Demand and Markets
1.     Changes in supply and demand of major petrochemicals products since 1990/91 are
presented on the attached table. Growth in demand for commodity polymers has been above
Bank appraisal estimates, as shown below (in thousand of metric tons):
Actual          Bank Projections            Actual
Product          1988-89   1990-91  1993-94   2000-01   1993-94   1996-97
LLDPE/LDPE          139      229       250      370       281       387
HDPE                130      178       260      410       335       477
PP                  56        72       145      270       259       433
PVC                 190      233       325      460       416       559
PS                   41       38       80        120       72        96
Total               556      750      1,060     1,630     1,364    1,952
2.     As projected at appraisal, project output is in substitution for imports. Although the share
of imports has declined since 1990/91, it remains substantial, 33% of demand on average for
coomodity polymers in 1996/97, and 43% for PBR. The following table shows the relationship
between the planned project output at full capacity and imports in 1996/97:
Product       Project Output        Imports
(Thousand mtons)
HDPE               60                 209
PP                 75                 235
PBR                30                  24
3.     Thus, except for PBR, for which the project will substitute all imports, for other products,
it will only replace about 30% of current imports.
4.     IPCL estimates its market shares in 1998/99 as follows:
LLDPE         55%
LDPE          85%
HDPE          20%
PP            12%
PBR           83%



36
(a)- Participants in CIPET Training Courses
Enrollment In Courses
1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98
Long-termn Training Courses           548       755      1,038     1,274     1,371     1,743     1,908     2,483
Short-term Training Courses            583       805       917     1,123     1,308     1,709     1,868
Employment Record of Alumni (1969-97)
Number              Percent
Total Number of Alumni                                 11187
of which: Contacted                                    10027               100.0%
Employed in Industries:                                 8487               84.6%
Small scale                                        3950               39.4%
Medium-scale                                       4382               43.7%
Public Sector                                       30                 0.3%
Government                                          25                 0.2%
R&D                                                100                 1.0%
Established Own Industry                                1200               12.0%
Small scale                                        480                4.8%
Medium scale                                       120                1.2%
Tiny                                               600                6.0%
Employed Overseas                                       360                3.6%



37
Table 6B- Key Indicators for Project Operation- CIPET Component
(b)- CIPET- Structure of Resources and Expenditures
1U5-94     1U54-95     iM          15 -U
Expenditures of CIPET
Million Rupees
Training                                  35,444      39,332      48,117      69,550
Technical Assistance                       1,091       1,325       1,504       3,172
R&D                                        1,284       1,268       1,467       1,392
Total                                 37,819      41,925       51,088      74,114
Percentage
Training                                    94%         94%         94%         94%
Technical Assistance                         3%          3%          3%          4%
R&D                                          3%          3%          3%          2%
Total                                  100%        100%         100%        100%
Origin of CIPErs Resources by type of Activities
Million Rupees
Grants Received                          30,000      30,000      40,000      44,000
Own Resources                            20,674      28,202      38,930      53,902
of which:
from Training                             7,115      10,654      14,858      27,992
from Technical Assistance                 7,473      10,037      13,058       14,909
from R&D                                  6,086       7,511      11,014       11,001
Total Resources                       50,674      58,202      78,930      97,902
Percentage
Grants Received                             59%         52%         51%         45%
Own Resources                              41%          48%         49%         55%
of which:
from Training                               14%         18%         19%         29%
from Technical Assistance                   15%         17%         17%         15%
from R&D                                    12%         13%         14%         11%
Total Resources                        100%        100%         100%        100%
Origin of CIPErs Resources by type of Clients
Percent of Own Resources Collected from:                       Percent
Tiny Industry                                                  10 to 20
Small Industry                                                 40 to 50
Medium-scale Industy                                           20 to 30
Large Industry                                                 5 to 10
R&D and Universities                                           10 to 20
Source: CIPET Project Completion Report



38
(c)- CIPET- Growth in Budget- Actual, versus Originally Projected
1988-89   1989-90  1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97  1997-98
Actual
In Current Terms- Million Rupees
Grants Received       35,100      n.a   21,900    25,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    40,000    44,000    44,000
Intemal Resources      4,040    3,820    7,910    10,411    15,340    20,674    28,200    38,930    53,903    58,600
Total Resources      39,140      n.a   29,810    35,411    45,340    50,674    58,200    78,930    97,903   102,600
In Constant 1997/98 Terms- Million Rupees
Indian Inflation
1997/98=100          46.4               54.9     62.5      68.8     74.5      82.6     88.7      94.5    100.0
Grants Received       75,647             39,891    40,000    43,605    40,268    36,320    45,096   46,561    44,000
Intemal Resources      8,707             14,408    16,658    22,297    27,750    34,140    43,890    57,040    58,600
Total Resources      84,353            54,299    56,658   65,901    68,019    70,460    88,985   103,601   102,600
Percentage
Grants Received         90%                73%       71%      66%       59%       52%      51%       45%      43A
Intemal Resources        10%               27%       29%      34%       41%      48%       49%       55%      57%
CIPET Budget as Prolected at ADpraisal 1J
Million Rupees                                                                        94/95 data
in 97/98 Rs.
Grants Received
from GOI          34,700    38,000    39,300    43,600    44,700    43,700    53,400    64,614
from State Gov.   29,100    24,000    26,000    26,000    27,500    26,000    26,000    31,460
total grants      63,800    62,000   65,300    69,600    72,200    69,700    79,400    96,074
Intemal Resources
with project       4,040    3,820    5,500     7,000    11,500    20,300    21,700    26,257
without project                                5,900     6,400    6,700     6,900    8,349
Total Resources
with project      67,840   65,820    70,800    76,600    83,700    90,000   101,100   122,331
without project   63,800    62,000   65,300    75,500    78,600    76,400    86,300   104,423
Percentage
Grants (with Project)   94%       94%      92%       91%      86%       77%      79%
Intemal Resources        6%        6%       8%        9%      14%       23%      21%
1/ Source: CIPET- "Modemization of CIPET Facilities- A Project Profile Submitted to World Bank (Dec. 1989)"



Table 7: Technical Assistance and Studies Included in Project
Study       J Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined                           Status                                 Impact of Study
Studies to be Carried out by the Government of India
Synthetic Fiber    Review status of the synthetic fiber industry with  The study was commissioned by the Department of Chemicals and    The study was issued nine
Industry Studyl    particular reference to sizes of production units,   Petrochemicals and prepared by S.P. Goel & Associates and INTEC    months after the
the type of technology being used and cost of  Consultants PVT.LTD. The study was completed in March 1992.  Government announced a
production, and to suggest an appropriate phased                                                       set of new economic
modernization program to upgrade the sizes and   The study exposed the inefficiency of the domestic fiber industry and   policies aiming at industry
technology base of the industry with the primary  inability to compete internationally, with investment costs 50%  de-regulation and the
objective of achieving international       higher than elsewhere in the world and production costs twice as  liberalization of trade,
competitiveness. The synthetic fiber industry is  high. Domestic prices were 2 to 3 times international equivalents.    foreign investment, and
defined to consist of polyester staple fibre(PSF),  High costs and prices had resulted from a combination of policies  technology imports. It is
polyester filament yarn (PFY), nylon filament    favoring excessively small scales of production (licensing policy  likely that, in subsequent
yarn (NFY) and acrylic staple fibre (ASF). The   aimed at favoring wide dispersal of plants in the country at the  anuual budget discussions,
study would be commissioned by April 1990  expense of economies of scale); high import tariffs on equipment; a    it contributed to the fast
and completed by March 31, 1991. It would be   highly protected trade regime; and very high excise duties.  pace of tariff and excise
undertaken by consultants and a team of experts                                                       reductions which took place
from industry and government under the     On the other hand, the study showed that demand of synthetic fiber in  subsequently (significantly
coordination of the Department of Chemicals    India was highly elastic to prices, making it very unlikely that  larger than for other
and Petrochemicals of the Ministry of Petroleum   moderate price decreases would result in lower tax revenues (from  petrochemicals).
and Chemicals.                            excise) for the Government. The study also showed that the the
Minimum Scale Criteria policy was not being strictly enforced and
was inefficient in ensuring that licensed investors actually
constructed their plants to match the licensed capacity.
The study recommended a phased strategy of cost and price reduction
to the benefit of consumers, through (a) modernization programs
favoring expansion of existing plants to minimum economic scales;
and (b) a phased reduction in both tariffs and excises (although with
no quantitative targets).
'Although not a covenant of the Guarantee Agreement, and not financed under the project, an agreement to undertake this study by March 31, 1991 was
recorded in the Minutes of Negotiations.



Studies to be carried-out by IPCL
Safety Audit for   Before December 1990, a detailed safety audit   It was being carried out by EIL, when it was disrupted by the  Most of the
Nagothane          by qualified consultants to assess the risks to the  accident in OSBL, and remained limited to the inside battery limits of  recommendations of these
project area and the surrounding communities,   the complex. However, after the accident, the following studies were  studies on design changes,
and IPCL would incorporate their           also carried out in 1991 and 1992 for the entire complex: (i) a  operating procedures, and
recommendations in the design of projects  detailed safety audit of the overall complex by EIL critically  safety and preventive
reviewed and identified areas of weakness requiring further study to    measures, were
improve safety; (ii) a Hazard and Operability Study for OSBL areas,  incorporated in the design
carried out by EIL and reviewed by Cremer and Warner in March  and operation of the
1992; (iii) an inspection report of gas storage and off sites by  complex and in the
Technical Liaison Associates (of Texas); (iv) a report on safety  construction of the
systems including design and procedures for the OSBL facilities  expansion project,
carried out by Cremer and Warner; and (v) a HAZOP study carried
out for all process plants..
During implementation of the expansion sub-projects, a number of
additional studies were also carried out. They included: (i) a disaster
management plan completed in October 1991; (ii) Safety
Construction Audits, completed in April 1996, to audit the planning
for the erection of the Cracker and HDPE expansions projects; (iii)
HAZOP studies for the cracker and HDPE expansions completed in
January 1998. Also, in mid-May 1998, a risk analysis study was
being completed. The final report was expected by mid-June, before                            o
commissioning of the expansions.
Safety Audit for   Before September 30, 1991, a detailed safety  It was delayed. The Bank considered that the risk assessment and  Most of the
Vadodara           audit would be conducted by qualified      hazard evaluation prepared by CISR and Cremer and Warner     recommendations of these
consultants to assess the -risks to the project area  respectively, which had been sent to the Bank, were predated to the    studies were incorporated in
and the surrounding communities and       Loan Agreement and were not in compliance with it. In August  the design, construction and
incorporate their recommendations in the design   1995, an overall health and safety audit was performed by the British   operation of the expansion
of projects                                Safety Council (BSC) for the entire complex and extended to each  projects.
new plant. Furthermore, detailed HAZOP studies were carried out    Also, recommendations of
and Disaster Management Plans were developed.               the HAZOP studies were
During implementation of the sub-projects, the following HAZOP  reviewed by the respective
studies were also carried out: (i) for the polypropylene plant, by  process licensers and
Technimont India Limited in March 1994; (ii) for the Butadiene  incorporated in plant
Extraction plant revamping, by IPCL's central safety department in    designs, and the new plants
December 1993; and (iii) for the polybutadiene plant, by Toyo  were incorporated in the
Engineering Company in May 1995. Finally, a Quantitative Risk  existing emergency plan.
Assessment (QRA) was carried out by KLG-TNO Ltd. in November
1997 for the overall complex, including the new plants.



41
Table 8A - Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate   Appraisal Estimate  ActuaULatest Estimate
Project Component       Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign  Total
(Rs. Million)        (Rs. Million)       (Million USS)        (MlYlionUS$)
I - IPCL Investments
Equipment& Materials          2382.1  997.0 3379.1 1596.8  1461.4 3058.2 164.3   68.8  233.1  46.5   42.6  89.1
Land                            21.8           21.8                        1.5            1.5
Civil Works                    301.1          301.1  372.6         372.6  20.8           20.8  10.4          10.4
Erection, Insulatio/Painting   339.5          339.5  290.0         290.0  23.4           23.4   8.3           8.3
License Fee, Ba3ic Eng.        144.4  468.0  612.4  146.6  725.6  872.2  10.0   32.3  42.3   4.5   21.3  25.8
Detailed Eng. & Services       193.9          193.9  180.1  108.8  288.9  13.4           13.4   5.3    2.9   8.2
Pre-Operabing Costs Expenditures   114.3   27.8  142.1  337.4    9.4  346.9  7.7    1.9   9.6   9.6    0.3   9.9
Acvities/Payments not Completed                      122.4  507.7  630.1                        3.0    8.0  11.0
(as of 31 May 1998)
Base Cost Estimate 3497.1  1492.8 4989.9 3045.9  2813.0 5858.9 241.1  103.0  344.1  87.7   75.1  162.7
Physical Contingencies         413.4  177.6  591.0  19.2   34.4  53.5  28.0   12.8  40.8   0.6    0.8   1.4
Price Contingencies            762.0  333.6 1095.6                        31.0   14.0  45.0
Installed Cost 4672.5  2004.0 6678.5 3065.1  2847.4 5912.5 300.1   129.8  429.9  88.2   75.9  164.1
Working Capital                465.0  160.0  625.0                        32.1    11.0  43.1
Interest during Construction           377.0  377.0  255.6  256.8  512.4          26.0  26.0   7.0    7.7  14.7
Financing Required 5137.5  2541.0 7678.5 3320.7  3104.2 6424.8 332.2  166.8  499.0  95.2   83.6  178.8
11 - ClPETComponent
Fellowship & Training                    8.7   8.7                  28.2           0.6   0.6                  0.8
Equipment&Materials              8.5  124.0  132.5                 415.5  0.6    8.6   9.2                   11.4
Base Cost Estimate   8.5  1327  141.2  74.9  3689  443.7  0.6    9.2   9.8   2.0   10.2  12.3
Physical Contingencies           1.3   19.9  21.2                          0.1    1.4   1.5
Price Contingencies              4.1   21.0  25.1                          0.3    1.4   1.7
Financing Required   13.9  173.6  187.5  74.9  368.9  443.7  1.0   12.0  13.0  2.0   10.2  12.3
III - Import of Polymers              1087.5 1087.5        1072.4 1072.4          75.0  75.0           44.7  44.7
Overall Financing Required    5151.4  3802.1 8953.5 3395.5  4545.5 7941.0 333.2  253.8  587.0  97.3  138.5  235.7
Notes:
(i) The cost of imports of polymers assumes an average exchange rate of of Rs.24 per US$
(ii) Actuial total investment costs of IPCL includes about 50% of direct foreign exchange (US$92.2 million) compared with 33% estimated at appraisal.
This increase reflects the sharp decrease in tariffs on imported goods which fell from about 85% to less than 25%, and to increase in the exchange
rate from Rs. 17 per US$ at appraisal, to Rs. 39 as of end-May 1998.
(iii) Total actual project costs amounts to million Rs.7,941 only, equivalent to 88.7% of appraisal estimates, and reflects: (a) the cancellation of the wires
and cables polyethylene unit: (b) the exdusion from the project of the engineering plastics unit; (c) the declsion to debottleneck one of the existing
LLDPEIHDPE unit at Nagothane instead of implementing a new unit; and (d) an important reduction in polymers imports for the seeding program,
which were limited to US$44million compared with US$75 estmated at appraisal. In US$ equivalent, total actual project costs amounted only to
about 41% of appraisal estimates, also reflecting the above mentonned increase of the exchange rate.
(iv) Project costs in US$ were calculated using the actual six monthly phasing of local expenditures in Rupees and average semestrial exchange rates.
(v) Project costs in Rs. were calculated using the exchange rate at the date of payment of foreign expanditures.



Table 8B - IPCL's Project Actual Costs
In million Rs
Nagotllane Projects                                                             Vadodara Projects
Gas Cracker           HDPEILLDPE       Total Nagothane Project  Butadiene Revamp   Polybutadlene Rubber          Polypropylene      Total Vadodara Projec     Total IPCL Prolects
Project Component        Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Forgn   Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local. Foreign  Total
(Rs. Million)         (Rs. Million)          (Rs. Million)          (Rs. Million)         (Rs. Million)          (Rs. Million)           (Rs. Million)           (Rs. Million)
I - IPCL Investments
Equipment& Materials             245.0    314.1  559.1  136.0    373.5  511.5  383.0    687.6  1070.6  140.0   75.0  215.0 501.5    360.2  861.7  572.3    338.6  910.9  1213.8   773.8  1987.6  1596.8  1461.4  3058.2
Land
Civil Works                        1.9            1.9  35.1             35.1  37.0             37.0  13.6             13.6  154.1           154.1  167.9           167.9  335.6            335.6  372.6            372.6
Erecion, lnsulatio/Painting      65.1            65.1                          65.1            65.1  71.6             71.6  74.3             74.3  79.0             79.0  224.9            224.9  290.0            290.0
LicenseFee,BasicEng.               1.5    13.6  15.1            262.3  262.3   1.5    275.9  277.4  13.0       48.7  61.7  38.7    119.3  158.0  93.4    281.7  375.1  145.1    449.7  594.8  146.6   725.6   872.2
Detailed Eng. & Services         47.2            47.2  23.0    106.6  131.8  70.2    108.8  179.0  27.4               27.4  40.9             40.9  41.6             41.6  109.9            109.9  180.1   108.8  288.9
Pre.Operafing Costs Expenditures  11.8           11.8  33.4             33.4  45.1             45.1  27.0       0.6  27.6  109.3      3.3  112.6  156.0      5.5  161.5  292.3       9.4  301.7  337.4       9.4  346.9
Activibes/PaymentsnotYetComplete   79.5    50.0  129.5  42.9    457.7  500.6  122.4    507.7  630.1                                                                                                122.4   507.7  630.1
Base Cost Estimate  452.0    377.7  829.7  272.4   1202.3  1474.7  724.3   1580.1  2304.4  292.6    124.3  416.9  918.8    482.8 1401.6 1110.2    625.8  1736.0  2321.6   1232.9 3554.5  3045.9   2813.0  5858.9
Physical Contngences              12.3     15.7  28.0   6.9      18.7   25.6  19.2      34.4   53.5                                                                                                19.2     34.4   53.5
Price Contngencies
Installed Cost  464.2    393.6  857.7  279.3   1221.0  1500.3 743.5   1614.4  2357.9  292.6    124.3  416.9 918.8    482.8 1401.6 1110.2    625.8  1736.0  2321.6   1232.9 3554.5  3085.1   2847.4  5912.5
Working Capital
Interest durng Construction      88.1            88.1  167.5           157.5 255.6            255.6            23.9  23.9            90.5   90.5           142.4  142.4            256.8  256.8  255.6    256.8  512.4
Finanelng Required  562.3   393.5  945.8  446.8   1221.0  1667.8 999.1   1614.4  2613.5  292.6    148.2  440.8 91.8    573.3 1492.1 1110.2    768.2  1878.4  2321.6   1489.7 3811.3  3320.7  3104.2  6424.8
In Million USS
Nagothane Projects                                                              Vadodara Projects
Gas Cracker           HDPEILLDPE       Total Nagothane Project  Butadlene Revamp   Polybutadlene Rubber          Polypropylene      Total Vadodara Projecb    Total IPCL Pro ects
Project Component        Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total
(US$. Million)        (US$. Million)         (US$. Million)         (US$. Million)         (US$. Million)        (US$. Million)          (US$. Million)          (US$. Million)
I - IPCL Investments
Equipment& Materials               6.6      9.5  15.2   3.7      10.0   13.7  10.4      18.6   28.9   4.3       2.3   6.6  14.9       11.3   26.2  17.0    10.4   27.4   36.2    24.0   60.2   46.5    42.6   89.1
Land
Civil Works                        0.1            0.1   0.9              0.9   1.0               1.0   0.4             0.4   4.3              4.3   4.7              4.7    9.4              9.4   10.4             10.4
Erection, lnsulabolPainting        1.8            1.8                           1.8             1.8   2.1              2.1   2.1              2.1   2.3              2.3    6.5              6.5    8.3              8.3
Ucense Fee, Basic Eng.             0.0      0.4   0.4             7.4    7.4   0.0       7.8    7.8   0.4       1.5   1.9   1.2       3.7    4.9   2.9       8.3   11.2    4.5       13.5   18.0    4.5    21.3   25.8
Detailed Eng. & Services           1.3            1.3   0.6       2.9    3.6   1.9       2.9    4.9   0.8              0.8   1.2              1.2   1.3              1.3    3.3              3.3    5.3      2.9    8.2
Pre.Operating Costs Expenditures   0.3            0.3   0.9              0.9   1.2              1.2   0.8              0.8   3.1      0.1    3.2   4.5       0.2    4.7    8.4       0.3    8.7    9.6       0.3    9.9
Actisfees/Payments not Yet Complete    2.0  1.2   3.2   1.1       6.7    7.8   3.0       8.0   11.0                                                                                                  3.0     8.0   11.0
Base CostEstimate  12.1     10.2  22.2   7.2      27.1   34.4  19.3      37.3   56.8   8.8       3,8  12.6  26.8       15.1   41.9  32.7     18.9   51.8   68.3    37.8  108.1   87.7    75.1   162.7
Physical Contingencies             0.3      0.4   0.7   0.3       0.4    0.7   0.6       0.8    1.4                                                                                                 0.6      0.8    1.4
Price Conlingencies
Installed Cost   12.4    10.5  22.9   7.5     27,5   35.0  19.9    38.1   58.0   8.8         3.8  12.6  26.8      15.1   41.9  32.7      18.9   51.6   68.3    37.8  106.1   88.2        75.9  164.1
Working Capital
Intrest during Constiruclion       24             2.4   4.6              4.6   7.0              7.0             0.7   0.7             2.7    2.7             4.3    4.3              7.7    7.7    7.0       7.7   14.7
FinancingRequiredl  14.8     10.8  254   1Z1       27.5   39.6  26.9      38.1   68.0   8.8       4.5  13.3  28.8       17.8   44.6  32.7    23.2   S5.9   68.3    45.5  113.8   95.2    83.6   178.8



43
Table 8C - IPCL Plant Investments: Actual versus Appraisal Cost Estimates
Current      of which:    Constant Oct. 88  of which:     US$ Million 3/
Installed Cost 1/  Rupees (Million)    Taxes    Rupees (Million) 2/  Taxes
Gas Cracker
Appraisal            1,027.1        321.8           865.5            271.2           66.4
Actual                857.7                                                          22.9
HOPE
Appraisal            1,000.6        271.0           843.5            228.5           64.7
Actual               1,500.3                                                         35.0
Modemization Schemes
Appraisal             861.0         229.4           711.6            189.6           55.6
Actual
Wires and Cables
Appraisal             354.8         116.7           283.8             93.3           22.4
Actual
Engineering Plastics
Appraisal             768.7         241.7           674.4            212.0           50.5
Actual
Butadiene Extraction
Appraisal             308.9          58.2           257.3             48.4           19.8
Actual                416.9                                                          12.7
Polybutadiene Rubber
Appraisal            1,054.2        250.2           875.7            207.8           67.7
Actual               1,401.6                                                         41.9
Polypropylene
Appraisal            1,125.7        206.5           943.8            173.1           72.5
Actuai               1,736.0                                                         51.6
Total Plant Investments
Appraisal            6,501.0       1,695.5         5,455.6         1,423.9          419.6
Actual               5,912.5                                                        164.1
1/ Installed cost excludes incremental working capital and interest during construction.
2/ Base cost, plus physical contingencies.
3/ Including contingencies.



44
Table 8D - Project Financing
In US$ million
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual Estimates
Of which to
Source                 Local Cost Foreign Cost  Total  Local Cost  Foreign Cost  Total   be Completed
(US$ million)                           (USS million)
Loan 3259 In
World Bank Loan                          233.0  233.0         20.1        125.3  145.4
IPCL                        332.2          8.8  341.0         75.1          3.0   78.1             11.0
Sub-total IPCL's Project   332.2        241.8  574.0         95.2        128.3  223.5             11.0
Loan 3258 In
World Bank Loan                           12.0   12.0          1.7         10.2   11.9
Govemment of India            1.0                 1.0          0.4                 0.4
ub-total ClPET's Project     1.0         12.0   13.0          2.0         10.2   12.3
Total Project
Workd Bank Loans                         245.0  245.0         21.8        135.5  157.3
IPCL                        332.2         8.8  341.0          75.1          3.0   78.1
GOI                           1.0                 1.0          0.4 ,               0.4
Total Financing             333.2        253.8  587.0         97.2        138.5  235.8
Total Spent as of May
31,1998                                                       86.2        138.5  215.7
Notes:
(i) At closing date, US$135,731 remained undisbursed from the loan 32581N and was canceled.
(ii) As of 31 March 1998, the closing date, US$ 70.3 million had been cancelled from Loan 32591N. In addition, on 31 August
1998, US$17.3 million remained undisbursed from the loan and was canceled.
(iii) As of 31 March 1998, total expenditures required to complete the project, including activities and payments not
completed and related contingencies, were estimated at about US$11 million.



45
Table 8D - Project Financing
In Rs$ million
Appraisal Estimates                      Actual Estimates
Of which to
Source                Local Cost Foreign Cost Total Local Cost   Foreign Cost  Total   be Completed
(Rs. million)                           (Rs. million)
Loan 3259 In
World Bank Loan                        3496.4  3496.4       818.2       3668.9  4487.1
IPCL                       5137.4       132.0  5269.4      2502.5        507.7  3010.1           630.1
Sub-total IPCL's Project  5137.4      3628.4  8765.8      3320.7       4176.6  7497.2           630.1
Loan 3258 In
World Bank Loan                         173.6  173.6          59.6       368.9  428.5
Government of India          13.9                13.9        15.3                 15.3
ub-total ClPET's Project    13.9       173.6  187.5         74.9        368.8  443.7
Total Project
Workd Bank Loans                       3670.0  3670.0        877.8      4037.8  4915.6
IPCL                       5137.4       132.0  5269.4      2502.5        507.7  3010.1
GOI                          13.9                13.9        15.3                 15.3
Total Financing            5151.3      3802.0  8953.3      3395.6       4545.5  7941.0
Total Spent as of 31 May
1998                                                       3273.2       4037.8  7310.9
Notes:
(a) The Rs. equivalent of loan disbursements was calculated using the semestrial amounts disbursed and the
corresponding semestial average exchange rates.



46
Table 9 - Economic Costs and Benefits
1I    Financial and economic rates of return for the project were re-estimated for the project and its
various components. Results for the base case and sensitivity analyses are presented in the annexed tables
and summarized below.
Major Assumptions
2.     All costs and benefits were valued in constant 1997/98 terms (corresponding to India Fiscal Year 1
April to 31 March), using India's wholesale price index as deflator to arrive to constant Rupees, and the
MIUV index as deflator to arrive to constant US Dollars.
3.    International prices of petrochemical inputs and outputs were assumed to recover their average five-
year 1993-1997 levels (in constant 1997 US$ terms) by year 2000, after a substantial decline in 1998
following the Asian crisis.
4.    Prices of outputs are ex-factory, excluding transport and other distribution costs to IPCL's 109
regional distribution points. For past years, financial prices correspond to actual realization prices, excluding
discounts and sales taxes. For future years, they were assumed to equal the landed cost of imports in
Mumbai, plus customs duties. Customs duties were assumed to progressively decrease from their current
levels to 10% by year 2005 and remain at that level subsequently. Economic prices are based on the landed
cost of imports, excluding customs duties.
5.    Financial and economic prices of olefins used as input to project plants (ethylene, propylene and
butadiene) depend on origin: when the origin is an upstream IPCL cracker (Vadodara naphtha-based,
Nagothane gas-based, or Gandhar gas-toased crackers), olefins were valued at their actual unit cost from
these crackers, plus transport and storage cost when relevant. When imported, prices were based on the
estimated or actual CIF Mumbai value (plus relevant landing, storage and transport cost), plus, for financial
prices, customs duties, which were projected to decline to 0% by year 2000. As it is usually uneconomical to
produce plastic and rubber polymers from imported olefins, the largest volumes are valued at internal
transfer costs, with only marginal requirements being imported (competitiveness in this industry is based on
vertical integration of crackers with downstream units, and therefore on size of crackers and downstream
plants, costs of cracker feedstocks, and size of the domestic market). Surplus ethylene from the Nagothane
cracker expansion was valued at its merchant price in India (projected to be consistent with average long-
term contract prices in the US and Western Europe).
6.    Financial and economic prices of C2/C3 fractions used as feedstock in the Nagothane cracker
expansion was calculated as presented in the table on page 49. Projected changes in the financial price of
C2/C3 are based on the announced Government policy of increasing natural gas prices to 75% of the
international FOB price of a basket of fuel oils by 1999/2000, plus a separation charge, taxes and royalties. ][t
was assumed that this share of the fob price would increase to 100% over the subsequent two years. The
economic price of C2/C3 was based on the landed cost of imported fuel oil, plus the separation cost.
Results
7.    Re-estimated financial and economic rates of return, compared with Appraisal estimates are
summarized below:



47
Financial Rate of Return (%)  Economic Rate of Return (%)
Appraisal      Current       Appraisal       Current
Component                           Estimate       Estimate      Estimate        Estimate
1. Gas Cracker Expansion and HDPE     40             56             49             48
Plant at Nagothane
2. New Polypropylene Plant at          29            20             22              9
Vadodara
3. Butadiene and PBR Plant             16            16             22             10
Expansion at Vadodara
4. Wire/Cable Compounds Plant          25                           32
5. Engineering Plastics Plant          36                           41
Overall Project                                      27             37             21
Overall Project, excluding 4 and 5     31            27             36             21
8.    The main differences between appraisal estimates and current estimates may be explained as
follows:
(a) for investments at Vadodara, while financial rates of return are generally comparable, economic
rates of return are significantly below current estimates. This is principally due to significantly lower
estimates of international prices for polypropylene (PP) and polybutadiene rubber (PBR). The table on page
49 shows changes in CIF India West Coast prices since 1993, on which revised estimates were based.
International prices of PP in constant 1997 terms were 35% to 40% lower than those projected at appraisal,
and those of PBR 40% to 50% lower. In constant 1997/98 Rupees, however, investment costs were generally
in line with appraisal estimates (for the PP plant) or lower (about 75% of appraisal estimates for the
Butadiene/PBR plants), as shown in the table on the next page.
(b) for investments at Nagothane, however, the economic rate of return as currently estimated is in
line with the appraisal estimate, while the re-estimated financial rate of return is significantly above. This is
because, although HDPE international prices, similar to international prices of other commodity polymers,
were also about 40% below those originally estimated, investment costs in the cracker and HDPE plant were
only about half appraisal estimates. While investments in the cracker expansion were in line with appraisal
estimates, investments in the HDPE plant were only about 40% of those originally planned, due to the
change in design from a new train to the revamping of the existing plant.



48
Capital Cost Estimates
Appraisal Estimate         Current Estimates
Constant end-1988  Constant 1997/98   Constant 1997/98
Component                       Rupees           Rupees             Rupees
(Million Rupees)
Cracker and HDPE Expansion      2,108.9          4,544.7            2,213.9
of which:
Cracker 1/                          323.0            694.0              713.0
HDPE                              1,785.9          3,839.7             1,500.8
Butadiene Expansion and PBR     1,257.9          2,710.8            2,114.6
of which:
Butadiene Expansion                 257.2            554.3              498.8
PBR                               1,000.7          2,156.5             1,615.8
Polypropylene                    943.8           2,033.9            2,065.3
1/ including investments in storage/handling and OSBL and pyrolysis gasoline units.
9.    A sensitivity analysis was carried out for each investment to examine changes in the most critical
assumptions. The results are summarized on pages 50 and 51.



49
CIF Prices West Coast India (US$ per ton)
Average
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999 2000 93-2000
International price index,  100  99.3 104.9  107.2 111.7  111.5 115.5  125.0 119.5 114.1
1988=100
1997=100                   87.6  87.0  91.9  93.9  97.9  97.7 101.3  109.5 104.7   100
HDPE
Appraisal- Dec.88 cst terms  1180  1153  1127  1101  1075  1049  1023   995  1007  1019  1031  1043  1055
Current terms         1180  1145  1182  1180  1201  1169  1182  1243  1203  1163
Constant1997terms    1346  1316  1286  1256  1227  1197  1167  1135  1149  1163  1176  1190  1204    1173
Estimated/Actual
Current terms                                          517   694   693   795   768
Constant 1997 terms                                    529   685   633   759   768   670   680   713         680
Polypropylene
Appraisal- Dec.88 cstterms  1209  1176  1143  1109  1076  1043  1009   971   981   990  1000  1009  1019
Current terms         1209  1168  1199  1188  1202  1163  1166  1213  1172  1130
Constant 1997 terms    1379  1342  1304  1265  1228  1190  1151  1108  1119  1130  1141  1151  1163    1144
Estimated/Actual
Current terms                                          620   767   976   812   714
Constant 1997 terms                                    635   757   891   775   714   530   643   755         713
Polybutadiene Rubber
Appraisal-Dec.88cstterms  1375  1365  1355  1350  1345  1340  1335  1330  1335  1345  1355  1365  1375
Current terms         1375  1355  1421  1447  1502  1494  1542  1662  1595  1535
Constant 1997 terms    1569  1557  1546  1540  1535  1529  1523  1518  1523  1535  1546  1557  1569    1537
Estimated/Actual
Current terms                                                      1300  1000   850
Constant 1997 terms                                                1187   955   850   740   880   990        700



50
Sensitivity Analysis- Summary- Vadodara
A- Butadiene Extraction Plant, Polybutadiene Rubber Plant, and Both Integrated
Butadiene Extraction           Polybutadiene Rubber          Integrated PBRIBUT
FRR        ERR                FRR         ERR                 FRR        ERR
(Percentage)
Base case (Butadiene valued    10          12                 17          9                  16          10
at
(intemal transfer cost)
Butadiene @ Import
price equivalent               23          24                  4          -4                 14           5
Excluding duties on
inputs & Outputs               10          12                  6           8                  7          10
International prices 1/:
minus 10%                                                     11           3                 11           5
minus 20%                                                      3          -5                  5          -1
plus 10%                                                      22          14                 20          13
plus 20%                                                      27          18                 24          17
Capacity Utilization
95%                  9          11                  16          8                  14          8
90%                  7           9                  14          6                  12          6
SCF=1                                      10                              8                              8
1 / Without change in internal transfer price of butadiene.
B- Polypropylene Plant                                           FRR         ERR
Base Case (propylene at internal                                   20           9
transfer cost of Vadodara)
Transfer Price of Propylene
Financial, excluding import duties (Base Case)                             9
As above, assuming new cracker at Baroda 1/                               11
At Import equivalent                                                      11
Without Import Duties on inputs and outputs                         9
International Prices 2/
minus 10%                                                       11           5
minus 20%                                                       -3           1
plus 10%                                                       27          12
plus 20%                                                       33          14
Capacity Utilization- 95%                                          17           7
SCF=1                                                                           7
1/ starting production in 2003/04, assuming same transfer price as Gandhar's.
2/ expected to affect input and output prices equally



51
Sensitivity Analysis- Summary- Nagothane - Cracker and HDPE Expansion
Cracker                 HDPE                  Combined
FRR        ERR          FRR        ERR         FRR         ERR
(Percentage)
Base Case                               53          54          56          44          56          48
(Ethylene valued at MGCC cost
of about US$258 per ton and
cracker surplus at merchant
price of about US$500/ton)
C2/C3 at Opportunity Cost               49
Ethylene valued at:
Merchant price of US$500/ton             95         95          35           18
CIF price                               103         97           17         Neg.
Base case, but with internal            35          41          55          42          50          43
transfer price to HDPE plant
equal cost plus 20% ROR
on cracker expansion investment.
Capacity Utilization
95%      52          57          51         41          51           48
85%      48          53          51          37         49           43
Cracker expansion @62%                                                                371
Cracker expansion @50%                                                                 32
HDPE Plant Output: 70,000 tpy I/                           62          49          60          51
HDPE Intemational Prices
-10%                             49          36          49          44
-20%                             31          29          44          40
+10%                              61          47          58          52
+20%                              67          52          63          55
Standard Conversion Factor
1                 56                      42                      48
1/ While the license fee was paid to the licenser on the basis of 60,000 tpy incremental HDPE capacity, IPCL
claims that the plant was revamped for an incremental capacity of 70,000 tpy.
l Assuming that missing ethylene to feed the HDPE plant would be imported @ US$700 per ton.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original
Agreement    Section    Covenant Type    Present   Fulfillment Date            Description of Covenant                                Comments
Status
Loan 3258    2.02 (b)    Disbursement                                  Borrowers to open and maintain a special
& Loan 3259              Condition            C                         account in US$ in the Reserve Bank of India
Loan 3258 &   3.02       Procurement          C                         Procurement of goods according to schedule
Loan 3259                                                               4 of Loan Agreement
Loan 3258     3.03       Project                                        CIPETs overseas training to be arranged  UNIDO was engaged by CIPET as executing agency to implement
Implementation       C                         with overseas institutions satisfactory to the  the overseas training component.
Arrangements                                   Bank.
Loan 3258     3.04(a)    Institutional        C      August 1991        CIPET to implement its annual training and
extension programs for FY 1990/93
Loan 3258     3.04(b)    Institutional        C      June 30 of each    CIPET to submit its rolling annual training
year starting 1991   plan to the Bank.
Loan 3258     4.01       Accounts/Audit       C      not later than six    CIPET to furnish to the Bank audited project
months after the    accounts and special account of each fiscal
end of each year    year.
Loan 3259     3.03       Project              C                         IPCL to implement its market development   From the US$75 million included in the loan for the financing of
Implementation                                 plan                                    IPCI,'s market development program. US$30.3 million were
Arrangements                                                                           canceled in June 1. 1994. After the 1990 accident in MGCC, the
Bank agreed to use part of the seeding funds to import common
grades of polymers to meet the resulting shortfall in supply.
Finally. the seeding program was limited to engineering plastics
also authorized by the Bank and to 580 tons of Valtec spheripol
grade Polypropylene.



Original
Agreement    Section    Covenant Type    Present   Fulfillment Date            Description of Covenant                                Comments
Status
Loan 3259     3.04(a)    Environment          C                         build and operate the facilities in     The facilities at Nagotahane and Vadodara wvere built in accordance
accordance with environmental standards  with the Indian environmental standards which were considered
satisfactory to the Bank.               comparable to those of most industrial countries and acceptable to
the Bank. Annex 3 shows that the Nagothane complex not only
complied with the agreed State standards but also with Bank
standards. In Vadodara, the two issues of hazardous solid waste
management and CN waste water treatment are being addressed.
IPCL should expedite their implementation to be fully in
compliance with the provisions under the hazardous waste
management rules.
Loan 3259     3.04 (b)    Safety              C      Dec. 31, 1990 for   IPCL to carry out detailed Safety Audits  The Safety audit and risk analysis study for Nagothane was being
Nagotane          prior to the commissioning of the facilities   carried out by EIL in 1990, when it was disrupted by the accident
Sept.30, 1990 for   to assess the impact of risks to the project    in OSBL, and it remained limited to the inside battery limit of the
Baroda            areas of influence                      comples. However, after the accident, at GOI and the Bank
request, a number of additional studies were carried out in 1991
and 1992 and their recommendations were implemented. They
included a more detailed audit of the entire complex and HAZOP
studies for OSBL facilities and process plants.
The safety audit for Vadodara was delayed. During the May 1994
mission, the Bank considered that the risk assessment and hazard
evaluation respectively carried out by CISR and Cremer & Warner,
were predated to LA and were not in compliance with it.
However, in August 1995 an overall health and safety audit was
perforned for the entire complex and it was later updated/amended
for each new plant. Finally, detailed HAZOP studies were carried
out and Disaster Management plans developed.
Loan 3259     5.01       Accounts/Audit       C      not later than six   IPCL to furnish to the Bank audited project  AsofAugust31, 1998. audited accounts for FY 1997/98 wvere not
months after the    accounts and special account of each fiscal   yet due.
end of each year    year.



Agreement    Section    Covenant Type        Present   Original            Description of Covenant                  Comments
Status    Fulfillment Date
Loan 3259      5.02 (a)    Financial           C       on going over      IPCL to maintain:                         During the period 1991-1997:
project life       n   a Debt/ equity ratio lowver than 1.5  n   except for 1991/92 and 1992/93 when it was slightly higher
(equivalent to 60/40)                     (70/30 and 65/35 respe ctively), the debt equity ratio
remained lowver than the agreed 60/40;
n   the current ratio was maintained between 1.9 and 2.8
n   a current ratio not less than 1.3     n   the debt service coverage ratio remained higher than the
agreed 1.5, except in 1993/94 and 1995/96 when it
n   a debt service coverage of at least 1.5.   decreased to 0.96 and 1.2 respectively .
Guarantee      3.01       Sector/Policy         C      in 1991 and every   GOI shall assess economic viability of   Assessments were made for new public sector plants: Following
2 years thereafter   investments in olefins and aromatics in light  elimination of licensing requirements, this became not necessary
of progress in investments.              for private sector plants.
Guarantee      3.02       Sector/Policy         C      periodically        GOI shall review the minimum size criteria   Since July 1991, capacity licensing is no more required by GOI. In
established for petrochemicals products.  addition the trade regime was liberalized and tariffs were reduced.
Consequently, the economic size is now decided by the market.
The criteria of minimum size was not officially removed, but
became redundant.
Guarantee      3.03       Sector/Policy         C                          GOI to maintain an appropriate price for  As of August 31, 1998, the nominal price agreed with the Bank  4s
ethane/propane feedstock                 before Board presentation, (Rs. 3300 per ton of C2/C3, in line with
its opportunity cost at that time), was still prevailing, even though
it had fallen well below its opportunity cost.
Guarantee      3.04       Sector/Policy        C                          GOI to arrange for the timely supply of   Delays occurred in completion of ONGC's Uran gas separation
adequate quantities of feedstock for the  facilities due to delays in: (a) securing environmental clearance
purpose of the project.                  from the Maharashta Pollution Control Board; and (b)
implementation problems.
The Uran gas separation facilities became operational by
September 1990 Nvlheo this project was presented to the Board, and
allowed commissioninig of the Nagothane cracker financed (under
loan 2505-IN) by the end of October 1990.
According to ONGC. the production capacity of this dedicated
separation plant and field is nowv 600,000 tpy, enough for its
commitments under this project during 20 years. However, this
capacity would not be able to feed a future duplication project in
Nagothane.
Definitions
C = covenant complied with; CD  complied with after delay; CP  complied with partially; NC = not complied with



55
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with applicable Operational Manual Statements. The most relevant
are: Operational Directive 4.00; Operational Directive 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement); and Operational Directive 11.00
(Procurement).



56
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                      Planned                 Actual
Weeks       US$       Weeks        US$
'000                   '000
Preparation to Appraisal                  45.01        n.a       104.5      216.0
Appraisal                                 30.02        n.a        18.4        40.2
Negotiations through Bd. approval           n.a        n.a        24.9        58.5
Supervision                               91.03        n.a      l44.34      354.0'
Mid-term Review                                6       n.a          n.a        n.a
Completion                                 8.07        n.a         6.88       16.5
TOTAL                                     174.0        n.a       298.9       685.2
n.a: not available.
At the end of Feb. 1989
2 At the end of Feb. 1989
Supervision Plan prepared December 13, 1991.
4Including mid-tern review . Last supervision mission was also completion mission. Supervision time for FY98 is total
planned for year.
Including mid-term review. Supervision cost for FY98 is total planned for year.
6 A mid-term review was not planned as part of the Loan Agreement.
Excluding mission (included in last supervision mission, planned for 7 Staff-Weeks)
Planned for FY99



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of      Mionth/vear    Number   Days   Specialized staff   Implementation         Development                  Types of problems
project cycle                      of        in         skills             status           objectives
persons    field     r epresented
Through appraisal
Identification   March 1988         4         12    Chem. Engineers.
Economists
Pre-appraisal    September          5         12    Chem.
1988                               Engineers,
Economist,
Financial
Analysts
Appraisal        February           5               Economist (TM),
1989                               Chem. Engineers,
Fin. Analysts
Negotiations through Board Approval
No mission
Supervision                                                                                                                                                                  J
1.               May 1991           3         12    Chem. Engineer,          2                 2            Delays in Govemment clearances
Economist, Fin.
Analyst
2.               November           4         16    Chem. Engineer,          2                 2            Delays in Govemment clearances; time for
1991                               Economist. Fin.                                        repairs after MGCC explosion; high tariff
Analysts                                               protection; cash flow risks. associated with
simultaneously implementing project and
Gandhar
3.               May 1992           3         17    Economist. Fin.          2                 2            Lack of progress in implementation of
Analyst. Chemn.                                        subprojects at Nagothanie due to MGCC pre-
Engineer                                               commissioning problems and lack of adequate
staffing: high tariff protection: temporary non-
compliance with Debt/Equity Ratio covenanit.



Performance rating
Stage of      Nlonth/vear    Number   Days   Specialized staff   Implementation          Development                 Types of problems
project cycle                      of       in           skills             status          objectives
persons    field     represented
4.               March 1993         2         2     Chem. Engineer.          2                 2            Delays in final clearance from Cabinet. and. for
Op. Officer                                            CIPET. from Expenditure Finance Committee;
HDPE expansion subproject delayed due to
disagreement xvith process licensor. delays in
release of committee report on MGCC
explosion; shortfalls in Market Development
component9 concerns about IPCL's medium
term financial position.
5.              January 1994        3         10    Op. Officers-            2                 2            Technical problems in operation of Nagothane
Industrial                                             LLDPE/HDPE line, cancellation of balance of
Engineer                                               funds for market development program and of
funds for Wire/Cable subproject, high tariff
protection and naphthta prices; need to increase
private sector participation in IPCL; delays in
signing GOI/CIPET grant agreement
6.              July 1994           1         4     Industrial               S                 HS           Contents of Risk Assessment and Safety
Engineer                                               Audits, overdue Committee report on
explosion; high naphtha prices.                                 Ul
7.               April 1995         2         8     Chem. Engineer.          S                IIS           Extension of closing date required to
Op. Officer                                            implement revised HDPE project.
8.               April 1996         3         12    Chem. Engineer.          S                 S            Extension of closing date;
(Mid-term                          Industrial                                              solid waste management at Baroda:
review)                            Engineer,                                               appointment of environmenital adviser:.
Financial Analyst                                      increased use of LIB.
9.               Mav 1997           2         9     Chemii. Engineer:        S                 S            Hlazardous waste maniagemiienit and release of
Op. Officer                                            airbonme polluterits at Baroda: appointmenit of
ienvironimenital adviser: closing date extensioln:
long -term sustainabilitv of Baroda complex:.
t0.             Mstarch 1998'       4        10    Op. Officer.             S                  S           Hazar dous \waste maniag-emiet and airborne
Chemil. Enginieers.                                    pollutents at Baroda: feedstock pricing
Economist                                              (naphtlha and natural gas): gas supply to
Gandhar; preparation of completionl report
I Combined supervision and completion mission.



59.                    Annex 1, Page 1 of ll
Na. 34027/lO/87wPC.III (Vol.IV)
Govereiaent of India
?inisery of Chemicals & Fertilizers
Department of ChbmIcals & Petrochemieala
New Delhl, the 2TId September 1998
Mr Richard Ackeermann                                     e%
Seccor ?fanager                                  3C    -
South Asia Environment Unit                       -
THE WORLD BANK GROOU?
1818 H Street. NW
WASHINGTON, DC 20433. tISL.
Sub:- Second Petroebomicals Development Project (Lne.3258/
3259-ru).Draft Imp2eemeneation Completlon Report(ICR).
Sir,
Please refer to your letter dated 27th July 1998
addressed  to  Shri  D.  CCh4cerjee,  Secretary  to  the
Government of India i1:. the Departzenta of Chemicals &
Pecrochemicals, New Dqlhi. forwarding therewith a copy of
the drafc implementation completion report.
2...   We have gone throgh the draftc ICR and we observe
that che report is complete and crue presentation of the
position.   We   elso  :uUderatand   that   both   Indian
Petrochemicals   Corporation   Limited   and  the   Central
Institute  of  PlaotLic  Engineer1ng  &  Technology,  hasic
already sent their comentLs directly to you. we have no
specific comments to offer on the draft ICR ac the otage.
Yours faithfully.
N.S. SAMANT )
DEPUTY SECRETARY TO THF GOVT. OF INDIA



60                   Annex 1, page 2 of 11
O4fq- 0f S>    * ,Mnr frft *a   Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limiteod
(qr wR   wM)                               (A Governent of India Unrdertakng)
W           f wf                      1 : 4 i  ars.1%  CORPORATE OFFICE: P.O. Petrochemicals Township,
*M :    - 391345. JW(Tm - tR Dist. Vadodara- 391345 Gujarat-India
Phones: (0265)372043,372091,372721* Gram: IPCL HO. * Telex: 0175-6364 & 6239* AB CODE: IPCLO Fax: (0265) 372090,37'3164
FA/BGT/WB                                                   04.09.1998
To,
OPERATIONS OFFICER
DIV. SASEN
ROOM No. MC10-755
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
HEAD QUARTERES: WASHINGTON D. C.
1818 H STREET, N W, 20433 U.S.A.
FAX No. (202) 522 1664
KIND ATTN.: Ms. NAIMEHHADJITA RKANI
Dear Madam,
SUB:- LOAN 3259-IN. COMMENTS ON IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION.
Attached is a two page project review from borrower's perspective on second
petrochemical project.
Regards.
C. Srinivasan
(Chief Financial Controller)
Encl. as above.



61              Annex 1, page 3 of 11
September 04, 1998
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
- SECOND PETROCHEMICAL PROJECT-LOAN NO.3259 IN
BANK'S PERFORMANCE
Bank has been consistent in providing sustained and continuous guidance and
support whenever called upon. It has also given fast clearance to our
procurement proposals as well as disbursement against replenishment claim.
In case of Nagothane complex, the bank has been kind enough to extend the
time limit for utilisation of World Bank loan from September 1997 to March
1998. This in particular helped the borrower (IPCL) for utilising the loan to
the maximum possible extent.
While detemmiing the loan amount, an estimate is made on single tender,
limited tender and open tender basis of procurement. However, in the course
of implementation of project, due to exigency, it is possible that certain items
which originally planned under open tender may get covered under single
tender, as a result of which the quantum earmarked for single tender may
proved to be inadequate. The borrower feels that there should be scope in the
loan agreement to provide for mid-term revision of the quantum of single
tender, limited tender and open tender but within the overall limit of the loan.
This would facilitate (a) faster implementation of the project and (b) full
utilisation of the loan. The borrower still feels that even though it may amount



62              Annex 1, page 4 of 11
to a marginal modification of the tender procedures, after opening all the
tenders, the borrower must be permitted to negotiate with LI as long as no
change is made in the tender parameters. This would bring down the cost of
the project.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Despite the delay in getting all approvals including from Goveniment of
India, expansions in Nagohane complex was completed by the borrower after
complying with all the procurement rules of World Bank, within two years,
once the changes in scope and procurement arrangement were made.
PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
Relationship between borrower and the Bank had been very cordial. There
was ample trust and understanding in the matter of evaluations and obtning
clearances to procurement proposals and replenishment against
disbursements.
C g RjNgve-5vN'.



63                    Annex 1, Page 5of I1
26th August, 1998
Shri N.S. Samant
Deputy Secretary to Govt. of India
Department of Chemicals &
Petrochemicals
Shastry Bhavan
New Delh1i 1 1O 001 
Dear Sir,
Sub : Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on World Bank Loan
No.3259 IN.
This has reference to your letter No.34027/lO/87-PC.III(Vol.lV) dated
17th August. 1998 regarding our comments on the draft Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). We enclose our comments as desired by you. A
copy of this is being sent to World Bank as per their request.
Thanking you,
Yotolll faitlhfully,
handar)
Director (Finance)
Encl: as above.
Copy to:
Shri Rohit Modi                   [With reference to your letter No.5/16/
Deputy Secretary to Govt. of India   87-FB.VI dated 7th August, 1998]
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi 1 1O 00 
rVl,5.  AU,ImEH   H,Az41rAa I  JR i A  ; /  OPE  AThAc'   CFF 'cErI
, /  5 s  i0oor,m  NJo   MC - lo - 75,
.Js Ko -   o o l Zon   5;n    1664
tR~~~~~~~P                                    MAAtP,R  AcRS   XC,,O mrS



64
Annex 1, Page 6 of 11
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
SECOND PETROCHEMICALS PROJECT (LOAN NO.3259 IN)
The World Bank had observed that level of protection at 40% for Polymers
and 2040%  for intermediates, is still high by world standards.   Large
difference in local sales tax is not recoverable under value added tax system
which creates serious distortions in selection of plant location, raw material
and product mix. World Bank has recommended harmonious action of sales
tax system and investment incentives and their transformation to value added
tax system to prevent such distortion.  A  package of measures for
hannonisation was accepted by State and Union Finance Minister in 1995
but not yet irplemented.
World Bank had called for C2/C3 pricing of gas based on opportunity cost
i.e. substitute for fuel oil and reasonable cost of conversion. BICP has
completed the study and submitted report to Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Gas which needs to be implemented.
World Bank had pointed out that main objective of IPCL was to increase
production volume, by expansion which has been achieved.
Main factors affecting proiect.
World Bank has commented on delay in implementation.  Appraised in
February 1989 loan agreement was signed in November '90. Further delays
occurred in Government approval and later in completion of LLDPE/HDPE at



65
Annex 1, Page 7 Of 11
Nagothane. The delay in Government approval accounted for 16 months,
accident in Nagothane pushed the implementation by 26 months. But once
the change in scope was finalised the IPCL could implement the project in 2
years.
Bank's assessment indicate that 'the viability of Nagothane expansions are
sustainable. But at Vadodara, the IRR could be close to zero if the
intemational price drops by 20%. This is mainly due to high cost of feed
stock (Naphtha) and local taxes leading to higher intemal transfer price of
propylene.
The Bank's assessment is that overall financial stability of IPCL as "sound";
and resilient.  Bank however perceives enornous challenges ahead;
particularly when tariffs are dropped further.
IPCL's future plans to combat competition by upgrading, modemising and
expanding the Vadodara Naphtha Cracker and setting up larger port facilities
for import of naphtha at intemnational price has been fully endorsed as right
move by World Bank also. Another threat identified is inadequacy of Gas
availability at Gandhar and lack of a long term supply contract with Gas
suppliers. World Bank has also expressed views that IPCL could achieve
above restructuring faster and becomes more competitive in domestic miarket
if it were under private ownership.



66
Annex 1, Page 8 of 11
Overall evaluation of the project, World Bank has indicated on borrowers
performance as follows:
a)   Project preparation was overall satisfactory.
b)   Demonstrated a strong conmnitment to project and met in timely
manner all necessary technical, financial and environmental and
institutional requirements from bank for project to proceed as per plan.
c)   Failed to obtain necessary clearance and to alert Bank about the
bottlenecks which their clearance could create. In this connection
company has taken all possible measures in submitting information to
Govenmuent for approval. However the Government machinery moves
too slow through the system in clearing. These are felt even today for
clearances of projects (ACN) submitted to Government; and there is
nothing Company could do in the matter. World Bank having funded
earlier Nagothane Complex through 210 million $ loan was also aware
that Company has to get Govemrnment clearance formally before it
could proceed with project implementation.
d)   World Bank feels that Nagothane expansion was commenced
prematurely when original plant had not gone on stream. It may be
true only on the hindsight as nobody could have perceived about the
accident in Nagothane in 1990, but for which most of the plan could
have proceeded more smoothly.



67
Annex 1, Page 9 of 11
e)   World  Bank  feels  that borrower was  overly  optimistic  in
simultaneously planning Gandhar also. The matter should be perceived
from borrowers view point also.
The availability of gas was realised and proposals for large private
investment in the sector was also heard of. The borrower couldn't have
remained inactive in the circumstances. It was an imperative to set up
natching capacities to meet growing demand and maintain market
share. But the IPCL had shown tremendous sagacity and prudence in
proceeding with Gandhar implementation in 2 phases with a view to
achieve the objective at the same time not over burden the company
simultaneously. Today Phase-I of Gandhar is in full operation's and
Phase-II is ready to complete by end of the year with full funds
requirements already tied up.
f)   Bank has concluded that investments in expansion should not be
approved until production of existing plants stabilises.  From the
borrowers point of view, it should be an ongoing process for project
identification, formulation of plans to increase/sustain the market share.
All Govemment approvals in India including environmental licenses
should be obtained before presenting proposals to Banks' Board for
funding. Altematively, if a financial institution has done detailed
evaluation and loan agreement has been signed, Government may not



68                   Annex 1, Page 10 of 11
delay approval - Except environmental clearances, rest shouldn't be
insisted on.
g)   Decentralisation of procurement review  to field offices expedites
project activities and timely guidance to borrower. Our experience has
also been same. The thresholds for LIB should be higher in case of
expansion schemes compared to green field projects.
From the point of view of borrower the World Bank lending was extremely
helpfil because of the long maturity period of the loan for projects
implementation. It was particularly so in case of IPCL as it had restniction on
raising equity capital which was partly offset by the long maturity loan from
World Bank. The project objectives have been achieved with completion of
Baroda based projects in 1996 and Nagothane expansion in 1998.



~~ t~~~~f~~~ ~CENTR-AL INSTITUTE OFPLSC
;:3 :  , <r6-           'r ^ d!-.;
(Ministry of C1uicasls & FwfflzUTS  ';,67
Im "W T I~~~EGIERIG    hcNCOV
*---. <lee -.T; u _ .eo ol.H                                - Guindy. Ch.ennW'm.-6O.
.  - C .:7n  4 aiT~ XwoPhonn: 2:34Z3774 aGw
- W:  9     z23o7720 & 2348622                                         FaXj No.:* 9144-2iM720 &23486
Annex 1, PagF 11 of        j
Fax No:001-202-522-1664                                  August 18, 1998.,
To:  Mr Richard Adkermann, Sector Manager Environment South Asia Region,
--   Worid Bank, USA .                                              -.;
-CearMrR!chard,
irr contnuaton of our fax mesage- di,ted August 3, 1998, we have gone through
t-he repcrt and found- that the infc-mation pertaining to CPET have  been---          .
covered f0ily and depicts the correc= positon. As such, we do not have any
commens to offer cn the draft
We wish to take this opporitnity to *n.ank for your kind co-operation and we are :
sure t.at the; objectives envisagec in the programme  nill be successfUlly
impleimented in the coming years.   We would cherish to have contintL-d
asscciatcn with World Bank in our f are endeavour and to raise the statls!of
*PET to- .ternatcnal-level.
- .1t , Ld: . :
.(K AR SUBR ANIYAN)
Dy Director (Cwrpora-                         
Cc::Mr Naimeh Hajtarkhani - for ;in- informiaton please
1.    W
Cenrep.4hneabd. tnitar Bopl. Bhl~shar Ga,Hyeraad Hwrh.lrtp                            - L   y
~-     .*    S-   .1.
.,AI~mda~a, AnisrShal.Bibihw Ga, Hyeaa.  ,orh  .mha  iuiiw Ms      ,Paln --?   ,f
*~~                       ~ * i    .... .s"-..r. 






71               Annex 2, page 1 of 11
Annex 2: The Policy Framework
General Context
1.    Changes in the policy framework for the petrochemical sector since 1990 have to be placed
within the overall context of the significant changes in the general economic policy framework which has
taken place since 1991. In June 1991, major policy changes were announced, which have since been
carried out. The policy changes aimed at significantly opening up the economy to foreign trade and
investment, rationalizing the tax regime, and increasing competition by removing administrative
bottlenecks to entry and capacity increases. This new set of policies was accompanied by a sharp
depreciation of the real exchange rate. Over that period, the sector has grown substantially, as both supply
and demand have increased at rates between 10% and 20% per year. Changes in supply and demand over
the period 1990/91 and 1996/97 are summarized in Table 7.
2.    The following developments were particularly relevant:
(a)   several rounds of trade reforms have lifted all licensing restrictions on imports of
intermediate and capital goods and reduced maximum tariffs for nonconsumer goods to 40% and
for capital goods to 20% . As a result, the import-weighted average import tariff decreased very
significantly between 1991/92 and 1996/97: from 97.1% to 24% for capital goods, from 77.1% to
17.6% for intermediate goods, and from 92.3% to 24% for manufacturing. There has been,
however, a partial reversal since 1996/97, when a 2% general surcharge on imports was
introduced, followed by an additional 3% in 1997/98 (cumulative surcharges thus totaling 5% in
1997/98), then followed by an additional 4% special surcharge in 1998/99 (cumulative
surcharges thus totaling 9% in 1998/99).
(b)    a major reform of central excise taxes was implemented to (i) shift most excise rates from
specific to ad-valorem; (ii) reduce the number of rates towards a four-rate structure; (iii) make it
more closely resemble a value-added tax system by allowing their recovery during the production
process; (iv) simplify the administrative system; and (v) extend the coverage of the Modified
Value-Added tax system (MODVAT).
(c)   the investment regime was liberalized. Requirements for capacity licensing of domestic
investments were eliminated in July 1991 (except for environmental and safety aspects), and the
foreign investment regime is now considered as "investor-friendly" as in east Asian countries.
3.    Changes in the policy framework for the petrochemical sector followed the general policy. The
following paragraphs summarize these changes as well as to other important policies more specific to the
sector.
Trade Policy
4.    At the time of appraisal, the level of protection was very high and highly skewed, even within the
same product category, demonstrating a case-by-case approach to protection. Changes in the structure of
tariffs over the period April 1987 to 1998/99 are presented in Table A2.1.



72                   Annex 2, page  2 of 11
Table A2.1 Changes in Rates of Import Duties between April 1987 and 1998/99
Percentage
Product          Apr.                Feb.
1987    1988/89    1990    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96   1996/97a   1997/98b   1998/99C
Feedstocks
Naphtha                                                                          2          0           8
LPG                                                                              12         15         23
Propane                                                    15                    12         15         23
Building Blocks
Ethylene                   365                             15         10         12         15         23
Propylene                  450                             15         10         12         15         23
Butadiene                  400                             15         10         12         15         23
Benzene                     0                              15         10         12         15         23
Xylenes                    100                             30         10        32          35         43
Intermediates
Styrene                     30                                                  12         15          23
Paraxylene                 120                             30                    12         15         23
MEG                        155                  70         60         35        27         30          38
DMT/PTA                    230                  70         60         35        27         30          38
ACN                        115                             60         20         12         15         23
Caprolactam                 75                             60         45        32         35          43
LAB                         75                  85         65         40        32         25          33
Polymers
LDPE/LLDPE       115        60        65        65         65         40        32         35          43
HDPE              100       60        65        65         65         40        32          35         43
Polypropylene     103       50        75        75         65         40        32          35         43
PVC               97        49        65        45         45         40        32         35          43
Polystyrene      178        50        50                   55        40         32         35          43
PBR                         60                  85         65         50        52         45          53
Fibers
PSF                        220                             65        45         32         35          43
PFY                        205                             65        45         32         35          43
ASF                        185                  85         65        45         32         35          43
NFY                        130                             65         45        32         35          43
Note: some of the rates in 1988/89 included specific duties per kilo. These were converted into percentage applied to actual or
estimated CIF prices prevailing at the time; a including the 2% surcharges on all imports; b inclusive of import surcharges (2%
and 3%); c inclusive of import surcharges (2%, 3% and 4%).
5.      The most drastic changes took place with respect to synthetic fibers where tariffs were curtailed
from the equivalent of between 130% and 220% in 1988-89 to a uniform 30% in 1996/97 (prior to the 2%
surcharge which was introduced later during the year, and the additional 3% and 4% surcharges
introduced in 1997/98 and 1998/99, respectively) . For building blocks and intermediates, there has also
been a significant reduction and harmonization of rates since 1988/89, to between 0% and 30% in 1996-



73                 Annex 2, page 3 of 11
97. The overall reduction in tariffs on capital goods from 85% to 20% (excluding surcharges) also had
significant impacts on the sector.
6.     For plastic polymers, the trend towards reducing protection was initiated back in early 1987.
Between 1986/87 and 1988/89, tariffs had already been reduced from 100% and above to 50%-60%.
After a three-year stabilization period, during which some of the rates even increased by some 5 to 15
points, there came another significant reduction in rates for plastic polymers, down to 30%-40% in
1996/97.
7.     While these changes are very significant, the level of protection remains rather high, particularly
after 2%, 3% and 4% across-the-board import surcharges were introduced in 1996/97, 1997/98 and
1998/99, respectively, which brought the level of duties on plastic polymers back to their 1995/96 levels.
8.     A comparison of IPCL product prices exclusive of equalized freight cost, and CIF prices in
Southeast Asia is given in Table A2.2 for several representative products. The effect of lowering import
tariffs from 65% to 32% by 1996/97 (35% in 1997/98 and 43% in 1998/99) has been to decrease
domestic prices slightly relative to the sum of import-parity prices and all import duties. The change has
not been significant because, when import tariffs were higher, domestic producers did not take full
advantage of the tariff protection-doing so would have priced plastics much above what purchasers
would have been prepared to pay, reducing demand. The product benefiting least from import tariff
protection is PVC, for which there exists excess capacity in India at present.
Table A2.2 Comparison of IPCL Product Prices with CIF Prices in Southeast Asia
Financial year   1993/94          1994/95         1995/96         1996/97
Percentage of CIF prices
LDPE                      140%(65%)        134%(65%)       138% (40%)      131% (32%)
LLDPE                     139% (65%)       145% (65%)      134% (40%)      132% (32%)
HDPE                      137% (65%)       151% (65%)      147% (40% )     129% (32%)
PP                        131%(75%)        152%(75%)       131%(40%)       133%(32%)
PVC                       132% (45%)       133% (450/%)    120%(40%)       119% (32%)
Percentage of CIF prices + all import-related duties
LDPE                         85%             81%              98%             99%
LLDPE                        84%             88%              96%            100%
HDPE                         83%             91%              105%            97%
PP                           75%             92%              94%            101%
PVC                          91%             92%              86%             90%
Notes: Total import-related duties in parentheses. Calculations are based on annual average prices with estimated
adjustments made for the calendar versus financial year. Equalized freight is estimated as Rs. 1,200/t except where the
data were available from IPCL.
9.     Per capita consumption of plastics in India, about 0.7 kg per annum, is among the lowest in the
world, and is four-fold lower than that in China. The effects of protection provided by import tariffs may
be mixed, since high prices can deter consumption growth, which is highly elastic with respect to prices.
For example, domestic polypropylene prices fell by 28% between April 1997 and March 1998 due to the
collapse of international prices. Lower prices in turn led to booming demand, increasing domestic
polypropylene consumption by 38% to 595,000 tons in 1997-98. Domestic polyethylene prices fell to a
lesser extent during the same period, by 12%, and the increase in demand was 9%.



74                Annex 2, page 4 of 11
10.    The principal strategy adopted by the major players in the field is vertical integration and import-
parity based pricing. The revenues of both IPCL and Reliance, its chief private sector competitor, are
derived mainly from domestic sales. Therefore, reductions in import tariffs are playing a significant role
in fostering competition and increasing efficiency in the sector. Another strategy used by IPCL to foster
consumption has been pan-territorial pricing of its products. Reliance has followed the same strategy in
order to be able to penetrate these same market areas. However, by not reflecting the varying costs of
transport and distribution in prices, pan-territorial pricing gives a subsidy to all end-users in remote
regions, encouraging people and firms to inefficiently alter their consumption and investment patterns.
It is expected that, as domestic and import competition grow, pan-territorial pricing will be
progressively phased out. Lower levels of protection would also accelerate this phase-out by leaving
importers and producers much less room for costly cross-subsidies.
Sales and Excise Taxes
11.    As already mentioned, the structure of excise taxes (and corresponding countervailing duties on
imports) has been changed to considerably reduce their dispersion, as shown in Table A2.3. While the
level of taxes for building blocks, intermediates and polymers has changed little since appraisal, it has
been considerably reduced for synthetic fibers. The combination of lower sales taxes and lower tariff
duties has reportedly encouraged consumption (synthetic fibers were previously a "rich man fiber" in
India) while forcing restructuring in an industry characterized by excessive dispersion, small scale and
high costs.
12.   In addition to the above central excise taxes and countervailing duties (which are recoverable
under MODVAT), sales across states are subject to a 4% central sales tax (non-recoverable) and local
sales taxes (also non-recoverable). Local sales taxes vary from state to state, from product to product,
according to origin, and according to the location of investors: (a) they vary from state to state and from
product to product: for example, in the state of Gujarat, local sales taxes vary from 4% for PVC and
LDPE/LLDPE/HDPE to 12% for PP, 6% for fiber intermediates and 2% for acrylic fibers; on raw
materials (naphtha, LPG, fuel oil), the rates vary from 8-10% in Maharashtra, to 9% to 14% in Tamil
Nadu, and 15% to 22% in Gujarat; (b) raw material imports such as naphtha, on the other hand, are not
subject to local sales taxes, while domestic production is; (c) sales tax exemptions on both domestic raw
materials and products are granted by states to new industries locating themselves in their territory: for
example, IPCL's Vadodara cracker pays a 20% sales tax on naphtha produced locally, while its
competitor Reliance pays none in the same state because it has been granted tax exemption applicable to
private sector firms investing in "backward areas". While presently the domestic raw material tax
exemption does not advantage Reliance (since it imports all its naphtha requirements), the tax
exemption on products sold within the state of Gujurat constitute a more significant advantage.
13.    These large differences in taxation rates and systems have the potential of creating serious
distortions in locational and raw material and product mix decisions, and in the competitive position of
new versus established enterprises which have to compete on the same markets. Harmonization of tax
rates and investment incentives across states and their transformation into value added taxation systems
would help prevent such distortions, which are damaging in a highly capital intensive industry whose
competitiveness is determined by large economies of scale, the cost of raw materials, and the location
relative to markets. A package of measures designed to harmonize state sales tax systems was accepted
in principle at the end of 1995 by State and Union Finance Ministers. Implementation of the
recommended measures would help create a more level playing field.



75                  Annex 2, page 5 of 11
Table A2.3 Changes in Rates of Excise Taxes and Countervailing Duties
between 1988189 and 1997198
Percentage
Product          1988/89   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
Feedstocks
Naphtha             -         -          -         -          -         15
LPG                 -         -10
Propane             -         -          -         -         -          15
Building Blocks
Ethylene            20        -         20         20        20         18
Propylene           20        -         20         20        20         18
Butadiene           20        -         20         20        20         18
Benzene            5-10       -         20         20        20         18
Xylenes             0         -         20         20        20         18
Intermediates
Styrene            15         -          -         -         -          18
Paraxylene          0         -          -         -         -          18
MEG                0-15       15        20         20        20         18
DMT/PTA             0         15        20         20        20         18
ACN                 0         -         20         20        20         18
Caprolactam         15        -         20         20        20         18
LAB                 15        15        20         20        20         18
Polymers
LDPEILLDPE          30        35        30         25        25        25
HDPE                30        35        30         25        25        25
Polypropylene       30        35        30         25        25        25
PVC                40         35        30         25        25        25
Polystyrene         30        -         30         25        25        25
PBR                 15        15        20         20        20         18
Fibers
PSF                 87        -         23         23        23        20.7
PFY                134        -         69        57.5       46        34.5
ASF                 32        -         23         23        23        20.7
NFY                 69        -         34.5      34.5      34.5       34.5
Note: - data not available.
Feedstock Pricing
14.    Feedstock pricing was considered one of the key policy issues in this project. At the time of
appraisal, the price of domestic naphtha was administered by the government and set considerably above
international levels, making Indian naphtha crackers less competitive on the global market. The price of
natural gas was also somewhat above its opportunity cost, and no pricing system had been established for
the C2/C3 fractions used by the petrochemical industry. An attempt was made to address the issue of
petrochemicals feedstock pricing in isolation from the overall pricing system for petroleum products, but
in the end this approach failed, as discussed below.
(a) Natural Gas and C21C3 Pricing Policy
15.    At the time of appraisal, no pricing mechanisms had been established for the C2/C3 fractions of
natural gas used by gas-based petrochemical crackers (the first one, MGCC, was still under construction).
During project preparation discussions, while linking the price of C2/C3 to its economic opportunity cost



76                  Annex 2, page 6 of 11
was considered essential to ensure efficiency, debates centered around how to deal with resulting
distortions in the relative C2/C3/naphtha prices. Several policy options were proposed: (a) bringing down
the price of domestic naphtha to the import-parity level while pricing C2/C3 at its opportunity cost; (b)
pricing C2/C3 above its economic opportunity cost at the beginning, and bringing down the prices of
C2/C3 and domestic naphtha together so as not to give a cost-advantage to one over the other; and (c)
pricing C2/C3 at its economic opportunity cost from the outset, and subsequently working towards
bringing down the price of domestic naphtha. Because of the difficulty of dealing with the broader issue
of petroleum product pricing under the project, the last option was eventually selected.
16.    The Bank advocated basing the price of C2/C3 on the import-parity price of fuel oil, adjusted for
calorific value and adding a reasonable separation cost. Based on a CIF price of $95 per metric ton for
fuel oil, a value of US$235 per '000 m3 of C2/C3, or approximately US$160 per ton of C2/C3 (assuming
a 4-to- I ratio of ethane to propane) was considered reasonable, including a separation cost per ton of
approximately US$50 per ton. The figure eventually proposed prior to the Board presentation by GOI of
Rs. 3,300 per ton of C2/C3, corresponded to these principles. Unfortunately, no explicit provision was
agreed under the Loan Agreement to adjust for fluctuations in the exchange rate or the international price
of fuel oil on a regular basis, and the price of C2/C3 has remained fixed at that level since, despite the
two-fold decline in the Indian rupees during the last eight years.
17.    Table A2.4 below compares actual prices and the estimated opportunity cost of C2/C3 over the
period from 1994/95 to 1997/98. The opportunity cost estimate is based on the FOB price of high sulfur
fuel oil in Singapore, plus US$10 per ton for shipping and port charges, adjusting for the difference in
calorific values between fuel oil (9,700 kcal/kg) and C2/C3 (11,200 kcal/kg), and adding the current
separation cost of Rs. 1,350 per ton. The price of C2/C3 relative to its economic opportunity cost has
declined steadily, except in the last financial year in which the world crude price fell significantly during
the first quarter of 1998.
Table A2.4 Estimated Economic Opportunity Cost of C21C3 Based on High Sulfur Fuel Oil
Financial year ending on 31 March  1995       1996         1997         1998
Fuel oil price in US$/ton, FOB Singapore         94           99           107          91
Fuel oil price in US$/ton, CIF India             104          109          117          101
Exchange Rate- Rs/US$                            31.4        33.67        35.48        37.13
Rs/ton of C2/C3, landfall price equivalent      3,759        4,241        4,788        4,351
US$/ton of C2/C3, landfall price equivalent      120          126          135          117
Separation Cost, Rs/ton of C2/C3                1,350        1,350        1,350        1,350
Separation cost, US$/ton of C2/C3                43           40           38           36
C2/C3 price in Rs/ton, IPCL plant gate          5,109        5,591        6,138        5,701
C2/C3 price in US$/ton, IPCL plant gate          163          166          173          154
Actual C2/C3 price charged, exclusive of tax    3,300        3,300        3,300        3,300
% of Economic Opportunity Cost                   65           59           54           58
18.    Furthermore, during preparation and appraisal, some argued that additional corrections should be
made to account for the following: (a) the alternative use for natural gas is most likely base-load power
generation where conventional rather than combined-cycle boilers are used; and (b) fuel efficiency in
conventional boilers is about 35%, whereas that in combined cycle gas plants is 42% or higher. Taking



77                 Annex 2, page 7 of 11
account of this difference in fuel efficiency would mean that the price of C2/C3 would need to be
increased by a factor of 1.2 over and above adjusting for calorific values. This would result in a higher
opportunity cost of C2/C3 and reduce the percentage of financial versus economic price of C2/C3 to
56%, 51%, 47% and 50%, respectively, for the four financial years presented in Table A2.4.
19.    C2/C3 pricing falls within the ambit of natural gas pricing, and this decline in price relative to
opportunity cost is linked to the overall natural gas and oil product pricing policy. Similar to other
petroleum products, until October 1997, the price of natural gas was set administratively to cover costs of
production of ONGC plus a 12% return on equity (the so-called "retention pricing" formula). This price
was to be reviewed every two-to-five years, based on changes in costs submitted by ONGC, but no such
change occurred between 1990 and 19971. Yet, available natural gas was being committed quickly, to the
point where not only is it entirely committed today, but there is such a shortage that several LNG projects
are being considered for power generation. The price of gas from LNG will be more than double the
current domestic price of natural gas. Some power plants even burn naphtha, a feedstock considerably
more expensive than gas.
20.    Natural gas pricing in India was finally modified in September 1997. It is currently based on the
international price of a basket of fuel oils and is reviewed every quarter. For 1997, 1998 and 1999, the
price of natural gas was to be set at 55%, 65%, and 75% of the international (FOB) price equivalent of a
basket of fuel oils, with floor limits as well as upper ceilings, except in the northeastern states where these
percentages are 30%, 40% and 50%, respectively. In 1999/2000, the Government will then decide if and
when to move to 100% of the reference value (still below the opportunity cost, however, since it should
actually be based at least on the CIF value of fuel oil). The price of C2/C3 has not yet changed, pending a
formal decision of the Gas Linkage Committee, but it is expected that it will be adjusted to reflect the
price of natural gas plus a separation charge (and pipeline transport costs when applicable).
(b) Petroleum Product and Naphtha Pricing
21.    Throughout the implementation of this loan, the price of domestic naphtha remained controlled
by the government, as other petroleum products. Prices of petroleum products were based on the same
retention pricing formula as mentioned above for natural gas, to guarantee refineries a fixed return over
their production costs. In addition, prices of petroleum products were uniform throughout the country,
substantially penalizing naphtha users located near refineries by charging them a freight equalization fee.
As a result of this pricing mechanism and of high local sales taxes (in Gujarat particularly, where it
reached an effective tax rate of 22-24%), the price of domestic naphtha has been costing more than
imported naphtha most of the time. This was further aggravated by the fact that no sales taxes were levied
on imported naphtha. For companies not benefiting from tax exemptions, there is therefore a considerable
incentive to import naphtha rather than purchase it on the domestic market. The only limiting factor so far
has been the shortage of port facilities, but both IPCL and Reliance have been constructing their own.
22.    Table A2.5 compares imported and domestic naphtha prices. Import parity prices are based on
annual average FOB Singapore prices of naphtha, and shipping and port handling charges of $35/ton
'Failure to adjust retention prices for petroleum products over that period may have been due to the impact on fiscal subsidies to
consumers that this would have had: since many consumer prices were well below their opportunity cost, raising retention
prices would have meant increasing the burden of these subsidies on the budget, despite a complicated system of cross-
subsidies between products (on of the penalized products being naphtha). Another reason for failure to adjust is the large
share of non-tradable costs in natural gas production, which did not necessarily increase in line with changes in exchange
rates.



78                 Annex 2, page 8 of 11
historically paid by IPCL. Domestic prices are actual annual average prices of domestic naphtha paid by
IPCL during the period April 1994 to March 1998. Purchasers of domestic naphtha paid on average 15%
more than naphtha importers. National Organic Chemicals Industries Ltd. (NOCIL) and IPCL are
principal users of domestic naphtha for cracking, whereas Reliance imports essentially all of its naphtha
requirement.
Table A2.5 Comparison of Imported and Domestic Naphtha Prices
Financial year ending on 31 March  1995     1996       1997       1998
Naphtha price in US$ per ton, FOB Singapore          155         153         193        175
Naphtha price in US$ per ton, CIF India              190         188         228        210
Exchange Rate (Rs/US$)                               31.4       33.67       35.48      37.13
Domestic naphtha in Rs/tona                         7424         7424       7970       8918
Domestic naphtha in US$/ton                          236         220         225        240
% of import-parity price                             125         117         98         115
a Exclusive of MODVAT (modified VAT, refundable to the purchaser), inclusive of local sales taxes and surcharges.
23.    A major change occurred in early 1998 in the pricing policy of petroleum products. Effective
April 1998, all prices were deregulated, except for those of kerosene, high-speed diesel oil, LPG and
aviation fuel, which are still administered but are expected to be deregulated after a four year transition
period. Refineries are now free to set their own prices, and it is expected that domestic naphtha prices will
be progressively aligned with the price of imported naphtha, and that freight equalization will disappear.
The question of local sales taxation, however, which still substantially penalize domestic production over
imports for producers who do not benefit from local tax incentive packages, remain to be addressed;
otherwise petrochemical producers will shift towards imports for most of their requirements.
(c) Impact of C2/C3 and Naphtha Pricing on IPCL
24.    IPCL has a naphtha cracker at Vadodara, for which it has relied primarily on domestic naphtha as
the feedstock, and a gas cracker at Nagothane (the Gandhar cracker is not yet in operation and is not
included in the following calculations). The overall financial impact on IPCL of paying more for naphtha
and less for C2/C3 relative to their economic opportunity costs is given in Table A2.6. The figures in the
table represent only order-of-magnitude estimates, since they are based on annual averages. Overall,
IPCL seems to have benefited from the distortions in feedstock pricing.
Access to Feedstock
25.    As already mentioned, imports of naphtha are deregulated and domestic supplies are negotiated
directly with refineries. As the industry is building its own port facilities to import naphtha, competition
of imported naphtha with domestic supplies will enhance competition in supply. The supply of natural
gas, however, remains entirely in the public sector. ONGC accounts for 90% of gas production and Oil
India for the remaining 10%. Except for small quantities accounting for less than 10% of total supply,
since 1992, all gas is purchased by the Gas Authority of India (GAIL), which manages the HBJ pipeline
network.
26.    The allocation of gas to users is determined by the Gas Linkage Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Petroleum and comprising representatives of the Ministries of Petroleum, Finance and Power,
and of GAIL and ONGC. Gas is allocated based on availability and end-user facilities. In the



79                  Annex 2, page 9 of 11
petrochemical sector, gas from the west coast of India has so far been allocated only to two public sector
companies, IPCL and GAIL itself (for its future cracker in Oraya).
Table A2.6 Estimating the Financial Impact of Naphtha and C2C3 Pricing on IPCL Expenditures
Financial year ending on 31 March  1995          1996           1997          1998
Price of C2/C3 per ton paid by IPCL in Rs./ton      3,663          3,702          3,754         3,772
Price based on economic opportunity cost in Rs/tona  5,671         6,272         6,983          6,478
Difference in Rs./ton                               2,008          2,570          3,229         2,706
Tons of C2/C3 purchased (for Nagothane)           423,000        491,000       507,000        559,000
Net gain to IPCL, million Rs.                         850          1,260          1,640          1,510
Price of domestic naphtha paid by IPCL in Rs./tona   7424          7424           7970           8918
Import-parity price of naphtha in Rs./ton (no tax)  5,955          6,332         8,105          7,781
Difference in Rs. per ton                           1,469          1,092          -135           1137
Tons of domestic naphtha purchased (for Vadodara)  346,000       343,000       415,000       415,000b
Net gain to IPCL, million Rs.                        -509           -375            56           -472
Overall gain to IPCL, million Rs.                     341           887           1,690          1,040
Exchange Rate                                       31.4          33.67          35.48         37.13
Overall gain in US$ million                          11             26            48            24
a Inclusive of taxes; b Estimated
27.    The contractual relationship between the gas supplier and IPCL is rather loose. Investments in the
petrochemical industry are initiated on the expectation that gas will be available, but there are no firm
take-or-pay contracts providing for penalties on either side or clear risk-sharing arrangements. In
Nagothane, IPCL's contract for the supply of gas is directly with ONGC, since it was signed before the
gas purchase monopoly was given to GAIL. ONGC invested in a separation plant to supply at first up to
450,000 tpy of C2/C3 to the MGCC cracker, then expanded it to 570,000 tpy by 1997/98 to feed the
cracker expansion. So far, however, IPCL's uptake has been below the contracted levels, resulting in
higher costs to ONGC from lower capacity utilization of its plant, without corresponding increases in
separation charges. On the other hand, for the Gandhar cracker, IPCL will purchase its supply from
GAIL, but as of April 1998 they had not signed a formal contract. GAIL in turn also does not have a long
term supply contract with ONGC, the gas producer. It now appears that the fields supplying Gandhar may
not have sufficient gas, but there are no clear pre-established contractual mechanisms allocating
responsibilities and risks among the parties in this case.
28.    The Government has recently announced a new exploration licensing policy which should
significantly increase investment in oil and gas exploration and production by introducing a level- playing
field and increasing transparency. This policy introduces a system of public bidding for oil rights in
which there will be no discrimination between public and private and between foreign and domestic
bidders. It also provides for a system of applicable royalties and tax incentives. A separate regulatory
body has been established in the Directorate of Hydrocarbons to administer and regulate this new system.
These steps are a major departure from the past and are aimed at substantially increasing exploration
activities in the 20 (out of 26) basins which have yet to be explored in India.
29.    With the likely entry of private gas producers, the Government will next need to focus on
establishing a regulatory framework for gas transportation and distribution, ensuring open access to the
transport pipeline network by gas producers, who should be able to negotiate supply contracts directly



80                Annex 2, page 10 of 11
with large users. Pipeline transport tariffs will also need to be regulated, as well as the extent to which the
transporter is allowed to enter upstream and downstream activities (for instance, GAIL, as a provider of
gas, a monopoly transporter, and the owner of a cracker may be inclined to pre-empt future supplies of
C2/C3). Regulating gas transportation and distribution activities will also require an independent
regulatory body.
Capacity Licensing and Minimum Economic Sizes
30.    To offset perverse incentives provided by a highly protective environment, the Ministry of
Chemicals and Petrochemicals had established minimum economic size criteria for the granting of
capacity licenses. With the deregulation of the industrial sector and the lowering of protection which
started in 1991, capacity licensing requirements were eliminated in July 1991 and these criteria became
redundant, except as guidelines to the financial sector.
31.    An ex-post review of capacity constructed since 1990 shows that, for cracking and the
manufacture of intermediates and plastic and rubber polymers, new capacity or expansions were of
internationally competitive size and have therefore met these criteria. In the synthetic fiber industry,
however, the study carried out in 1991 (Table 7 of the ICR) showed that the minimum economic size
policy was not being strictly enforced, and was inefficient in ensuring that licensed investors actually
constructed their plants to match the licensed capacity. It has been reported that, since then, the
substantial lowering of protection to the industry is leading to extensive restructuring through a
combination of capacity expansions in existing plants to reach an economic scale, very large new
capacity additions (Reliance), and likely closures.
Private Sector Participation
32.    By appraisal, the Government had already aimed at increasing the participation of the private
sector in the industry by granting a capacity license to Reliance Industries for the construction of a
cracker. As a result, since 1990, the private sector has entered the sector on a massive scale, with the
construction of a very large cracker by Reliance Industries in Hazira (Gujarat). Even though IPCL has
also meanwhile increased its own capacity more than six-fold, the private sector now accounts for half of
total olefin production capacity, as shown Table A2.7.
33.    Table A2.7 also lists announced projects expected to start production by year 2000/012. If these
investments proceed as planned, by year 2000/01, the public and joint-ownership sectors will still
continue to account for about 40% of total capacity. The entrance of the private sector appears to have
displaced imports and introduced substantial price competition in areas so far dominated by IPCL (for
plastic polymers) and an inefficient synthetic fiber industry.
34.    With respect to foreign ownership, although still requiring approval of a Government Committee,
in practice there has been no limitation to the equity participation of foreigners (some recent examples
include a specialty chemicals enterprise 1 00%-owned by Dow Chemicals, and a PTA plant 95%-owned
by Mitsubishi).
2This list excludes other announced investments planned to start production later-on, which include a 300,000 tpy cracker of
Assam Industrial Development Corporation (joint sector); three 300,000 tpy crackers of Karnataka State Industrial
Development Corporation, Madya Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation and Punjab State Industrial
Development Corporation; a 350,00 tpy cracker of Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation; and another 750,000
tpy cracker of Reliance in Maharashtra.



81                Annex 2, page 11 of 11
35.    Consumers of polymer plastics indicated to the World Bank team that the entry of Reliance
Industries several years ago led to significant price competition as well as an increase in domestic supply.
This has resulted in displacement of imported products by domestic products, benefiting consumers who
no longer have had to carry a minimum of thirty days' worth of inventory, since domestic products are
available at 24-hour notice. The trend towards increasing competition and domestic supply is expected to
continue.
Table A2.7 Olefin Production Capacity (cracker capacity in tons of ethylene)
Cracker                                   Feedstock Type     1990        1998       Planned
Public Sector
IPCL:
Vadodara                                 Naphtha        130,000      130,000     300,000 a
Nagothane                                  Gas                       400,000
Gandhar                                    Gas                      300,000
Total IPCL                                          130,000     830,000
GAIL   Auraiya                                Gas                                    300,000
Total Public Sector                  130,000     830,000      600,000
Private Sector
Reliance Industries (Hazira)                Naphtha                     750,000    1,100,000 b
NOCIL (Bombay)                              Naphtha         75,000      75,000       375,000
Total Private Sector                  75,000      825,000     1,475,000
Joint Sector
Haldia (Joint Venture Priv. Sector/State Gov.)  Naphtha                              420,000
Total Capacity                   205,000    1,655,000     2,495,000
a Replacement for the existing cracker; b 800,000 tpy at Jamnagar and 300,000 tpy at Assam.
Public Ownership of IPCL
36.    In 1989, IPCL was fully owned by the Government of India. It has since opened up its capital to
the public by floating shares on the stock market to finance its large investment program. In 1998, the
Government's share had decreased to 59.9% of share capital. This share could further decrease to 51% by
year 2002 if bondholders of a 1994 issue choose to exercise their option to convert their bonds into
shares. As a profitable enterprise totally independent from the Government's budget, IPCL is considered
one of "the nine gems" among public companies. A specially appointed commission in charge of
reviewing the justification for maintaining these companies in the public sector has recommended the
privatization of IPCL, with the Government retaining a minority share only (around 25%). No decision
has been taken so far on the future privatization of IPCL.






83                 Annex 3, page 1 of 12
Annex 3: Environmental and Safety Considerations
A - Background
Environment Policy in India
1.    During the last two decades, India has made considerable progress in the establishment of an
environmental policy and regulatory framework. Since 1974, the key laws concerning environment
protection were enacted. They include: (i) the Water Act of 1974; (ii) the Air Act of 1981; and (iii) the
Environment Act of 1986. These Acts resulted in the establishment of the Central Board, for the
prevention and control of water pollution, and of State Boards, as key agencies for the prevention and
control of water and air pollution, (including monitoring and enforcement of pollution regulations) and
environmental screening and licensing of large industrial projects. In 1981, the Department of
Environment and Forest was created within the Central Government to promote environmental
conservation.
2.    In 1985, at the initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF), a comprehensive set
of environmental guidelines for the siting of industries was issued. These guidelines include: (i) the areas
to be avoided; (ii) siting criteria; (iii) the need for the preparation of a comprehensive Environmental
Impact Assessment to identify the potential environmental impacts of large industrial projects; and (iv)
the establishment of a base line data through the EIA so that actual environmental impacts of executed
projects can be compared with such data. In addition, the guidelines set up procedures for licensing of a
number of environmentally sensitive industries, including chemical and petrochemical industries.
According to these procedures, a project would only be licensed after: (i) the site has been approved from
the environmental point of view by the competent state authority; (ii) the project proponent commits to
install appropriate equipment and implement prescribed measures for the prevention and control of
pollution; and (iii) The State Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has certified that the proposal meets all
environmental requirements and that the proposed equipment is adequate for that purpose.
3.    The Environment Act of 1986 confirms the responsibilities of the Central Pollution Control
Board (CPCB)and SPCBs and specifies standards and monitoring procedures for emission and discharge.
It also specifies Minimum National Standards (MINAS) for Specific industries, including the chemical
and petrochemical industry. The Environmental Impact Evaluation prepared in 30 June 1994, by the
Operation Evaluation Department of the Bank, for the Maharashtra Petrochemical Project (the first
petrochemical project in Nagothane), found that these standards were, in general, similar to those adopted
in industrialized countries.
Environmental Tradition at IPCL
4.    In its health, safety and environmental policy, IPCL commits to protect health, safety, and
environment inside and outside its industrial sites. IPCL's policy also includes strict compliance by its
various units with all environmental regulations during the design, construction, and operation of all its
facilities. The environmental consciousness of IPCL dates back to the early days of constructing the
Vadodara petrochemical complex in Gujarat, where efficient environmental and safety control and
management systems were implemented. Since, IPCL has continued to maintain its excellent
environmental credentials through high level environment protection, plant safety and emergency
response awareness. Main environmental achievements include: (a) constructing the Nagothane
petrochemical complex in Maharashtra with very high environmental protection standards, which, with
effective control, monitoring and management, has permitted operation fully in compliance with the



84                 Annex 3, page 2 of 12
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) standards; (b) the development and implementation of a
successful reforestation program at Nagothane; (c) the improvement and modernization of existing
effluent treatment systems in Vadodara; (d) environmental and safety training and development of
environmental awareness at all levels; and (e) development of social programs in both Vadodara and
Nagothane involving the local communities. As a result, IPCL has been the winner of many
environmental and safety awards.
B - The Nagothane Complex
(a) The Project
5.    In Nagothane, the Project included: (i)the expansion of the existing cracker (financed under
World Bank Loan 2505 IN) from 300,000 tpy to 400,000 tpy, mainly through the addition of a fifth
furnace; and (ii) the expansion of one of the existing two trains of LLDPE/HDPE to allow an incremental
production of 60,000 tpy of HDPE. The expansion of the wire and cable plant considered in the Staff
Appraisal Report was canceled during project implementation. As stated in the main text of this report,
commissioning of the above expansions took place on June 1998. No land acquisition and no additional
housing were required, and the additional requirements for power and water are being supplied by the
existing systems.
(b) Project Location
6.    The Nagothane complex is located about 120 kilometers south of Bombay. Water resources are
relatively abundant, and are already used by other industries. The Amba river is the main source of water
for the project. The area was already relatively deforested, except for some small clusters of forest, and
for an area near the plant which is being exploited for timber. Wildlife is scarce and is present only in the
areas under forest cover.
(c) The Environmental Impact Assessment
7.    At GOI's and Bank's request, IPCL prepared a comprehensive EIA for this project. Its
preparation was entrusted to Engineers India Limited (EIL). It was completed in 1989, before the
commissioning of the first phase of the Nagothane complex. It provides a comprehensive base line data
for both phases of the complex including: physical and biological conditions; ambient air quality at plant
site and in a radius of 10 kilometers from the plant; water quality at four locations in the Amba river, in
addition to a hydrographic study of the river which supplies process and domestic water to the complex;
biological characteristics of the estuary section of the Amba river where the plant discharges its effluents
(at a point selected after an hydrographic and oceanic study completed by the National Oceanic Institute);
and a population census of the affected area in a radius of 2 kilometers (13,539),and between 2 and 5
kilometers (6,481), of which about 2,150 people were resettled satisfactorily under the first project.
8.    While activities during construction were expected to have some transitory impacts, the more
important and permanent impacts were expected during operation. The main environmental impacts of
the overall complex, as indicated by the EIA's severity assessment matrix, included in decreasing order
of severity: (i) air quality; (ii) environmental hazards; (iii) services; (iv) noise and odor; (v) infrastructure;
and (iv) water quality.
9.    For the expansion proposed under the project, the EIA indicated that the proposed plant
expansion would result in: (i) increased emissions of airborne pollutants from the additional furnace, and



85                 Annex 3, page 3 of 12
increase in power consumption; (ii) increased fugitive emissions and volatile emissions, due to increased
transportation of feedstocks; (iii) increased waste water discharge, due to increased production capacity;
and (iv) increased spent catalyst for disposal. However, it is also stated that: (a) the Nagothane complex
already included a complete wastewater treatment system with enough capacity to treat the increased
industrial and domestic effluents while meeting the MPCB standards; (b) the fifth furnace was similar to
those already installed and it was expected that after expansion emissions would remain within MPCB's
limit for sulfur dioxide (SO2), NOx, Hydrocarbons and particulate matter; (c) no significant noise and
odor impacts were expected from the expansion; and (d) MOEF required, IPCL to return the spent
catalyst to the manufacturer. Finally, the EIA concluded that the project had a minor negative impact on
environment overall which could be mitigated by proper measures.
(d) Environmental Mitigation Measures
10.   The main mitigation measures implemented included: emissions control, effluent control and
treatment, solid waste management, noise and odor control, environmental monitoring system,
environmental training and development of environmental awareness, reforestation program, and social
development program.
11.   As already indicated, the plants gaseous waste can contain SO2, NOx, Hydrocarbons and
particulate mater. Since the feedstock C2/C3 used in the cracker and the natural gas preferably used in the
power plant contain negligible sulfur, emissions of S02 in the flue gas are very low. Process technologies
and equipment installed were selected to minimize fugitive and particulate matter emissions. In addition,
the stack of the power plant is 100-meter high, to allow use of Low Sulfur Heavy Stock (LSHS) up to a
maximum of 10% of annual requirements and only when natural gas availability is low.
12.   To the extent possible, all measures were taken in the design of the plants to prevent leakage,
minimize production of wastes, recycle the wastes, and separate the streams of pollutants. After inside
battery limit primary treatment, resulting streams of industrial, storm and domestic liquid effluents are
treated in the general liquid effluent treatment system, which includes: an equalization tank, oil
separators, chemical and biological effluent treatment, treated effluent clarification, guard ponds from
which treated effluent is pumped to the estuary after a final control. If the treated effluent quality is not
found suitable for disposal, it is returned to the system for further treatment.
13.   The sludge from the effluent treatment system is dried in drying beds after further aeration and
thickening. Domestic waste is collected and disposed of in a suitable dumping area. Also, in the process
contracts, IPCL included an obligation for the licenser to retrieve and properly dispose of spent catalysts.
Finally, IPCL maintains a detailed record and labeling of all hazardous waste produced, treated, or sold to
authorized contractors, as per MPCB's guidelines.
14.   Adequate measures were taken in the design to reduce noise in accordance with levels prescribed
by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) of the USA. When necessary, noise is
further reduced at the production source, using enclosures, silencers, sound absorbers, and mufflers. The
green belt planted around the plant also helps contain noise.
15.   Nagothane has established a comprehensive environmental monitoring system which includes:
- For water and liquid effluent:(i) raw water and liquid effluent monitoring at the complex battery limit,
and at unit level to control efficiency of each unit; (ii) monitoring of water quality in storm drains; and
(iii) monitoring twice a year by the GOI R&D laboratory, of the Amba estuary, where liquid effluents are



86                 Annex 3, page 4 of 12
rejected through a 26 kilometer-long pipeline.
- For air pollution: (i) monitoring of stack emissions by a laboratory recognized by the MOEF; (ii)
continuous monitoring of ambient air by two fixed, and cne mobile, automatic analyzer stations; and (iii)
CCTV to monitor flare.
- For noise: noise is monitored regularly by day and night to ensure compliance with OSHA standards.
The noise level was maintained within the complex at 52 and 54 dB, respectively in 1995/96 and
1996/97.
- Yearly and monthly reporting of environment parameters, energy consumption and possible anomalies,
to management and to the official environmental agencies for consent renewal.
16.   IPCL's Environmental Department has been implementing a large training program which covers
a wide range of subjects. All levels of personnel, including managers, are attending these courses.
Environmental awareness programs are also implemented within the company for employees and
managers and outside the company for the surrounding community, through a number of activities,
including contests, seminars, and special programs for villagers.
17.   IPCL has carried out an important reforestation program in the nearby area to the complex,
including the development of a green belt around the complex as a buffer zone for air and noise pollution..
More than 1.6 million saplings were planted, with a good survival rate of about 63% (1 million). In
addition, IPCL is using treated waste water for irrigation of the green belt and of the township lawns, to
reduce water consumption.
18.   IPCL is also engaged in a number of social development activities, including the planting of
orchards with the assistance of Bharati Agro Industries Foundation (BAIF) development Research center.
They include: (i) introduction of fruit species ; (ii) training of villagers; (iii) dairy cattle development
through insemination; (iv) extension services; (v) environmental awareness program; (vi) training for
non-farm skill development of youth; and (vi) home safety in using LPG, and energy conservation
programs.
(e) Environment Monitoring Results
19.   Airborne Emissions - Plant emissions meets pollution effluent standards as shown in the table
below. Except for Particulate Matter (PM), they also meet Bank guidelines for the petrochemical
industry:
S02            NOx              HC              PM
(ppm)           (ppm)          (ppm)           (mg/m3)
MPCB Standards          87.5             -               -              150
(for Power Plant)   (3.5 ton/day)
Design Values      90 (147 kg/hr)    70 (84 kg/hr)   0.024 (7.14         75
kg/hr)
Bank Guidelines
for Petrochemical   500 mg/Nm3      300 mg/Nm3       10 mg/Nm3           20
Industry (1997)
Actual in 97/98        18-27           34-56             -             40-90



87                Annex 3, page 5 of 12
20.   Ambient Air Quality - The table below shows the range of main pollutants released during the
period 1995-98 compared with CPCB standards, with the base line measured in 1986/87 as part of the
EIA and with the levels measured before pre-commissioning and after commissioning. It shows that the
actual ambient air largely meets the standards and that little has changed since measurements made
before plant start-up.
S02         NOx          CO           PM
(,g/rm3)    (g/rm3)      (pg/m3)      (jig /m3)
CPCB Standards                      120          120         5000          500
Base Level (86/87)                   4           4-14          -            -
Pre-Commissioning level - Jan 91    6-8          8-17
After Commissioning level - Apr 92   6           4-10          -            -
Actual level for the period 1995/98  5-28        4-29       150-1800     70-100
21.   Liquid Effluent - Main effluents streams at Nagothane include 150 m3 of process effluents, 150
m3 of contaminated rain water, 110 m3 of sanitary effluent, 150 m3 of cooling towers blow down, and
about 3 m3 of spent caustic waste. Raw water from the Amba river and treated effluent levels for the
period 1995-98 are compared in the table below to MPCB standards and to Bank guidelines. It shows that
treated effluents from IPCL's Nagothane complex meet in all respects not only all MPCB standards but
also the more demanding Bank guidelines. Furthermore, it shows that effluent rejected in the Amba river
has better parameters than the raw water pumped from the same river.
Parameters                 MPCB          Bank         Raw        Effluent
Standards   Guidelines    Water        1995/98
1995/98
pH                          5.5-9         6-9         6-8.5        7-8.5
BOD (ppm)                    100           30        50-500        7-26
COD (ppm)                    250          150       200-1000       4-80
TSS (ppm)                    100           30        10-100       16-31
Phenolic Com. (ppm)           5           0.5          nil          nil
Sulfides (ppm                 2            1          0.2-6        0-1
Cyanides (ppm)               0.2           -            -           -
Oil and Grease (ppm)          10           10         5-20         0-2
TDS (ppm)                   2100           -         500-600     250-425
Bio Essay (%)                90            -            -          100
22.   Since October 1990, the Amba river estuary and the areas surrounding IPCL's effluent disposal
point, have been monitored by the National Institute of Oceanography. They concluded that the impact of
the waste water discharge into the Amba river estuary has been negligible: the water and sediment quality
were comparable to the baseline; the ecosystem remained healthy with moderate to high diversity; the
fish catch and composition remained comparable to earlier studies; and the bio-essays on fish revealed
that the treated effluent was non-toxic.



88                 Annex 3, page 6 of 12
(/) Safety Measures
23.   In the design, construction and operation of the first phase of the complex IPCL took necessary
measures, including Hazard and Operability study (HAZOP) and risk analysis, to avoid and eventually
detect hazards early. Notwithstanding, a failure in the Outside Battery Limit (OSBL)area led to a serious
accident1 in 1990 with a number of fatalities. Since this accident, IPCL has further reinforced its safety
system and efforts and instituted many programs aimed at increased safety consciousness among
personnel.
24.    A safety audit and risk analysis study agreed at appraisal, to assess the risks to the project area
and the surrounding community before commencement of production operation of the first phase of the
complex. It was due by December 1990, and was being carried out by EIL, when it was disrupted by the
accident, and it remained limited to the inside battery limit of the complex. However, after the accident,
the following studies were also carried out: (i) a detailed safety audit of the overall complex was
completed by EIL in April 1991 which critically reviewed and identified areas of weakness requiring
further study to improve safety; (ii) as part of the engineering activities for the rehabilitation of the OSBL
facilities, a Hazard and Operability Study for OSBL areas was completed by EIL in July 1991, addressing
the safety of the process system of the OSBL facilities and included a risk analysis to assess whether the
OSBL facilities presented significant risks to other facilities2; (iii) an inspection of gas storage and off
sites was completed in July 1991 by Technical Liaison Associates (of Texas); (iv) a report on safety
systems for the OSBL facilities was financed under the loan and completed by Cremer and Warner in
March 1992; and (v) a HAZOP study was carried out for all process plants. Most of the recommendations
of these studies on design changes, operating procedures, and safety and preventive measures, were
incorporated in the design and operation of the complex and in the construction of the expansion project.,
In addition, in July 1992 GOI completed a special review (by the so-called) Mashelkar Commission, of
the actual causes, effects and remedial actions in relation to the accident. All critical recommendations of
this audit were also implemented.
25.    During implementation of the expansion projects a number of studies were also carried out and
their recommendations incorporated. They include: (i) a disaster management plan for the plants and off-
site cross-country pipelines, which was completed in October 1991, to address and respond to emergency
events associated with the industrial operation in case of fire or explosion; (ii) Safety Construction
Audits, which were completed in April 1996 by Entec (UK), to audit planning for the erection of the
Cracker and HDPE expansion projects; (iii) HAZOP studies for the cracker and HDPE expansions, which
were completed, respectively, by Entec and Samsung (Korea) in January 1998, to examine the design,
identify opportunities for improvements and potential sources of problems, as regards safety, operability
and engineering. In addition, a risk analysis study is being completed by Entec and its final report is
expected by end October. Finally, the on-site Disaster Management Plan was being tested in mock drills.
It is being revised and its second edition was expected by July 1998.
26.    The Safety System - A separate "Safety Manual" defines the safety rules, regulations, procedures
and codes to be used in the Nagothane complex. The Nagothane safety system includes: (i) specific
production unit safety committees, headed by plant managers; (ii) an Apex Safety Committee chaired by
the executive director, which meets quarterly; (iii) a program of external audits and periodic inspections;
' This accident is fully documented in the Environmental Impact Evaluation and Project Completion Report of the
Maharashtra Petrochemical Project (Loan 2505 IN) and in Bank files.
2 The HAZOP and Risk Analysis prepared by EIL were reviewed for comments by Cremer and V/amer in March
1992.



89                Annex 3, page 7 of 12
(iii) training and awareness development programs; (iv) distribution and monitoring of safety equipment;
(v) implementation of safety requirements of ISO 9000; (v) monitoring of the safety condition and
requirements of equipment and installation, including external pipelines; (vi) organization of quarterly
mock drills for on-site emergency management plan; (vi) preparation of risk analysis and HAZOP
studies, by third parties for all expansion projects, and in house for modifications in existing plants; (vii) a
system of safety work permits; (viii) investigation and reporting of all accidents; and (ix) the granting of
safety awards as incentives at plant and department levels to follow safety procedures.
27.   The Nagothane safety system was found effective by the consultants which carried out the above
studies. IPCL efforts have shown results: except in 1995, the severity rate of accidents - number of days
lost per million man-hours worked - has dropped from 663 in 1992 to 32 in 94, 46 in 1996 and 19 in
1997. In 1995, it reached 837 due to a road accident. This result is more than satisfactory in operating a
petrochemical plant where expansion works are taking place.
The Environmental and Safety Organization
28.   At Nagothane environmental protection and safety activities are overseen by the Health, Safety
and Environment (HSE) Department, headed a Deputy General Manager, and reporting directly to the
Executive Director of the whole Nagothane complex. The environmental and Safety activities are the
responsibility of two separate divisions of the Department. The Department also has functional links with
other divisions under other lines of management, which supply environmental data to HSE. These
divisions include the effluent treatment plant, the air monitoring stations, and the laboratory. Finally,
Nagothane' s management has awarded a consultancy contract to National Productivity Council, to assist
in the implementation of an Environmental Management System to seek certification in accordance with
14001 norms. If implemented, this system will further improve environment and safety.
C - The Vadodara Complex
(a) The Project
29.   In Vadodara, the Project included: (i) the construction of a new 75,000 tpy polypropylene plant;
(ii) the rehabilitation of the existing butadiene extraction plant to allow an incremental production of
15,500 tpy; and (iii) the construction of a new 30,000 tpy polybutadiene rubber plant. The construction of
a new 7,500 tpy engineering plastics unit, considered in the Staff Appraisal Report, was canceled during
project implementation. As stated in the main report, commissioning of the above components took place
in September 1996, and commercial production started before the end of January 1997. They are
operating at their design capacity. On 31 March 1998, these plants completed their first entire year of
production when they reached, respectively, a yearly production of 73%, 65% and 47% of their design
capacity. Production of butadiene and polybutadiene was limited by availability of butene. No land
acquisition and no additional housing were needed for project implementation, and the additional
requirements of power and water are being supplied by the existing systems.
(b) Project Location
30.   The Vadodara complex is located north west of Vadodara city in the State of Gujarat, Water
resources are relatively abundant, and are already used by other industries. The area is one of the leading
industrial areas in India, in terms of production and number of employees. The main industries in the area
include petroleum refineries, petrochemical industries, fertilizer industries, and a large number of small
and medium scale down-stream industries that utilize feedstocks and raw materials produced by the large



90                Annex 3, page 8 of 12
complexes. The Mahi River, its effluent the Meni River and other three smaller rivers, discharge into the
gulf of Cambay. There is also a large lake at about 24 kilometer from Vadodara. The region has been
seriously deforested (only about 9% of area remained covered) and remaining Wildlife is very scarce.
(b) The Environmental Impact Assessment
31.   At GOI's and Bank's request, IPCL prepared a comprehensive EIA for the purpose of this
project. Its preparation was completed in February 1990. In addition to assessing the impact of the project
components, it provided a comprehensive description and assessment of the existing environmental
facilities and systems in the Vadodara complex and base line data including: physical and biological
conditions of the region; existing infrastructure in the area; ambient air quality at plant site; raw water
intake and waste water volumes and quality; and quality of water in the Vadodara joint venture effluent
channel and in the Cambay river; and existing noise levels.
32.   Activities during construction were expected to have only some transitory impacts. The
expansion projects, were expected to only have minor impacts, reducing the overall pollution load when
the old polypropylene plant would be closed and the butadiene extraction plant would be modernized.
The main environmental impacts of the overall complex, as indicated by the EIA, are in the following
areas: (i) emission of air pollutants; (ii) liquid effluent discharge; (iii) solid waste generation; (iv) land
use; (v) noise; and (iv) safety and pollution risks for the nearby population of Dahnora village where, at
the time of the environmental assessment, about 300 families were refusing to move to the new housing
and infrastructure constructed and completed by IPCL three years ago. The EIA also concluded that the
mitigation measures to be implemented were effective and that IPCL met in all respects the Gujarat
Pollution Control Board (GPCB) requirements. The existing mitigation measures included water, air,
solid waste, noise and odor pollution management systems, safety systems, green belt development, and
social development.
33.   For the expansion proposed under the project, the EIA indicated that the proposed plants
expansion would result in: (i) increased emissions of airborne pollutants from the additional plants; (ii)
increased waste water discharge; and (iv) increased solid wastes . However, it also stated that: (a) the
Vadodara complex already includes a complete wastewater treatment system with enough capacity to
treat the increased industrial and domestic effluents and meet GPCB's standards before they are rejected
in the effluent channel; (b) the air quality will remain well below GPCB's limits for sulfur dioxide (SO2),
NOx, Hydrocarbons and particulate matter because the new units would be equipped with adequate air
pollution control measures and connected to the existing flare system; (c) no significant noise impact was
expected from the expansion and noise level would remain below the limit of 80 dB; and (d) solid waste
can be used in land fills or incinerated. In addition, MOEF required IPCL to return the spent catalyst to
the manufacturer.
Environmental Mitigation Measures
34.   The main mitigation measures adopted include: emissions control, effluent control and treatment,
solid waste management, noise and odor control, environmental monitoring system, environmental
training and development of environmental awareness, a reforestation program, and a social development
program.
35.   Process technologies and equipment installed in the various plants were selected to minimize
fugitive and particulate matter emissions. The use of low sulfur natural gas (LSHS is used only in absence
of natural gas) and adequate stack height helps IPCL maintain its emissions and ambient air within



91                Annex 3, page 9 of 12
standards. In addition, hydrocarbon emissions from process plants are all connected to four flare systems
with a height ranging between 65 and 120 meters. With respect to the cyanide emissions from the
acrylonitrile plant IPCL has installed a hot alkali digestor and a specially designed incinerator to reduce
airborne cyanides. For cyanide level in the resulting waste water, it has been reduced from 15-20 ppm to
about 10 ppm, but remains higher than the 0.2 ppm current standard. IPCL's R&D department at
Vadodara has developed its own technology for cyanide biomass digestion and IPCL is in the process of
adopting this technology in its facilities and expects to meet the new standards.
36.   To the extent possible, all measures were taken in the design of the plants to prevent leakage,
minimize production of wastes, and separate streams of pollutants to allow their primary treatment inside
battery limit. After inside battery limit primary treatment, the resulting streams of industrial, storm and
domestic liquid effluents, are combined and treated in a liquid effluent central treatment system, which
includes: an equalization tank, oil separators, chemical and biological effluent treatment, treated effluent
clarification, extended aeration, and guard ponds, from which the treated effluent is discharged in the
Vadodara effluent channel after a final control. This 55 kilometer-long joint venture channel, gravity
discharges the effluents of some 13 companies in the estuary of the Mahi river, which in turn discharges
in the gulf of Cambay, its investment costs were shared among the participants, who also share operating
costs. As expected at appraisal, the above effluent treatment facilities were further revamped in parallel
with project implementation to increase their capacity and improve their efficiency. They were designed
according to international standards and, except for cyanide (para 36), comply with GPCB's effluent
standards.
37.   Adequate design measures were taken to reduce noise to permissible levels. However, noise from
a few machines remains somewhat high. Operators are provided with sound proof cabins and personal
protecting devices such as ear plugs. Also, the green belts planted around the plants and the entire
complex help contain noise.
38.    The Vadodara complex generates about 11,150 tpy of solid waste, of which 5,500 tpy are sold,
1,670 tpy are incinerated, and about 4,000 tpy are disposed at a waste disposal site started when the
complex was started. IPCL maintains a detailed record and labeling of all hazardous waste produced,
treated, or sold to authorized contractors, as per GPCB's guidelines. To improve its hazardous solid
management and comply with regulations and conditions of the last operation authorization obtained
from GPCB, under the Hazardous Wastes Rules of 1989, IPCL has taken the following actions: (i) a
hazardous waste multi-purpose incinerator was installed and has been operating since March 1998; (ii)
development of a safe management and handling of solid waste system, including a scientifically
designed hazardous solid waste landfill. To that effect 10 acres of land at Nandesari have been acquired
and a feasibility study (by Bhagwati Design Pvt Limited) has been completed. As of May 1998, IPCL had
also engaged the National Productivity Council to prepare the design of this hazardous waste
management system. Finally, IPCL has initiated the scientific closure of the existing waste disposal site in
consultation with GPCB. For the new plants constructed under the project, IPCL included the obligation
for the licenser to retrieve and properly dispose of spent catalysts in the process contracts.
39.    Vadodara has established a comprehensive environmental monitoring system, including:
- for water and liquid effluent: (i) raw water and liquid effluent monitoring at sources in each unit level
and after on-site primary treatment, to control efficiency of each unit; (ii) monitoring of water quality in
storm drains; (iii) monitoring before and after the central treatment system and (iv) monitoring of final
effluent before it is sent to the Vadodara channel.



92               Annex 3, page 10 of 12
- for air pollution monitoring: (i) monitoring of stack emissions; and (ii) continuous monitoring of
ambient air, carried out by four remote sensing monitoring stations inside the premises, and one mobile
automatic analyzer station. In addition, GPCB's monitors stack emissions and ambient air quality
periodically;
- periodic medical monitoring;
- yearly and monthly reporting of environment parameters, energy consumption and possible anomalies,
to management and to official environmental agencies for consent renewal;
- environmental audits by GPCB's-approved external auditor are carried out every four months, as per
high court order to all industries in the State. The last audit was carried out in May 1998.
40.    Since the beginning of operations at Vadodara complex, IPCL has developed a green belt around
the complex and the township as a buffer zone for air and noise pollution. More than 200,000 trees were
planted. Also, a homogenous forest of eucalyptus was established on about 50 acres near the complex,
and treated waste water is successfully used for its irrigation. Finally, since 1985, IPCL created a "Living
Museum of Trees" on 32 hectares, where some 70,000 trees of 70 species of the region were planted.
41.   For the outstanding resettlement issue of about 300 families from the nearby Danhora village, no
further progress has been made primarily as a result of disagreement over whether or not all youths from
the Danhora village should be employed at IPCL. The 163 dwelling units and associated infrastructure set
up in 1984 have been deteriorating for lack of use, and are in need of additional investment. The number
of families had grown to about 300 by 1990.
(e) Environmental Monitoring Results
42.   Airborne Emissions - The complex meets the pollution effluent standards as it is shown in the
table below. They also meet Bank guidelines for the petrochemical industry.
S02            NOx              HC              PM
(ppm)           (ppm)          (ppm)          (mg/m3)
GPCB Standards                            50             25
- for Power Plant        100                                             250
- for Process            50                                              125
Bank Guidelines for
Petrochemical        500 mg/Nm3      300 mg/Nm3       10 mg/Nm3          20
Industry (1997)
Actual in 1990 EIA
- for Power Plant       0.3-5           0.5-15           n.a             4-17
- for Process            3-43          0.01-16            -             23-81
Expected after
expansion at            <100             <50             <25            <250
Appraisal
Actual for 97/98
43.   Ambient Air Quality - The table below shows the range of the main pollutants during the period
1988/89, compared with GPCB's standards for ambient air agreed, It shows that ambient air largely



93               Annex 3, page 11 of 12
meets the standards.
S02          NOx       Hydrocarbon         PM
(JLg/m3)     (pg/rm3)      (Lg/m3)         (pg/m3)
GPCB Standards prescribed within
the Vadodara complex                80            80            160            200
Actual for 1988/89 in 1990 EIA  <67 (ave. 3)   <64 (ave. 8)     n.a       <346 (ave. 170)
Actual for 1997/98
44.   Liquid Effluents - Actual main pollutant levels in treated effluents, are compared to GPCB
standards and to Bank guidelines in the table below. It shows that treated effluents from the complex
central waste water treatment system meet not only all GPCB standards, but also the more demanding
Bank guidelines. Furthermore, it shows that a substantial improvement took place since the 1990
environmental impact assessment as a result of the revamping which took place in parallel with project
implementation (as expected at appraisal).
Parameters                  GPCB         Bank      Effluent in       Effluent
Standards   Guidelines   1990 EIA       As per IPCL
pH                         6.5-8.5        6-9         7-8.6           7.5-8.0
BOD (ppm)                    50           30         20-30             <15
COD (ppm)                    250          150        70-90             <55
TSS (ppm)                    100          30           40              <15
Phenolic Com. (ppm)           1           0.5
Sulfides (ppm                 2            1         0.6-2.6
Cyanides (ppm)               0.2                                       0.06
Fluorides (ppm)              1.5                     1.6-5.5           0.7
Oil and Grease (ppm)         10            10
TDS (ppm)                   2100
Bio Essay( %)                                                  May 1998 audit
indicates that results
are satisfactory .
45.   Noise Level - Overall noise levels within the complex area, as indicated in the May 1998 external
environmental audit, are between 55 and 85 dB, in line with OSHA recommendations.
(/) The Safety Measures
46.   Since start of operations of the complex, strong safety and emergency systems were established
by IPCL to minimize risks of accidents. As already commented in para 23, since the 1990 accident in
Nagothane, IPCL has further reinforced also in Vadodara, its safety system and efforts and instituted
many programs aimed at increased safety consciousness among personnel.
47.   The detailed safety audit, which, as agreed at appraisal, was to be carried out before 30
September 1990, to assess risks to the project area and the surrounding community, was delayed. In May
1994, the Bank considered that the risk assessment and hazard evaluation prepared by CISR and Cramer
respectively, which had been sent to the Bank, were predated to the Loan Agreement and were not in
compliance with it. In August 1995, an overall health and safety audit was performed by the British
Safety Council (BSC) for the entire complex and extended to each new plant. Furthermore, detailed



94               Annex 3, page 12 of 12
HAZOP studies were carried out and Disaster Management plans were developed. At BSC
recommendation after the audit, IPCL was given a "five star rating".
48.   During implementation of the projects, a number of studies were also carried out and their
recommendations incorporated. They included: (i) a HAZOP study for the polypropylene plant,
completed by Technimont India Limited in March 1994; (ii) a HAZOP study for the Butadiene Extraction
plant revamping, completed by IPCL's central safety department in December 1993; and (iii) a HAZOP
study for the polybutadiene plant, completed by Toyo Engineering Company in May 1995. The
recommendations of the HAZOP studies were reviewed by the respective process licensers and
incorporated in the plant designs, and the new plants were incorporated in the existing emergency plan.
Finally, a Quantitative Risk Assessment (QRA) was completed by KLG-TNO Ltd. in November 1997 for
the overall complex, including the new plants.
49.   The Safety System - As already commented, IPCL has a documented and published Safety Policy.
As part of this policy, the Vadodara safety system includes: (i) specific production units safety
committees, headed by plant managers and meeting every two months; (ii) an Apex Safety Committee
chaired by the General Manager Operation, which includes representatives from trade unions, and which
meets quarterly; (iii) a program of safety audits and periodic inspections; (iv) in house and external
training and awareness development programs for all level of personnel, including senior managers; (v)
distribution and monitoring of safety equipment; (vi) a safety library including safety films; (vii)
monitoring of the safety conditions and requirements of equipment and installation, and their compliance
with regulations; (viii) preparation of risk analysis and HAZOP studies; (ix) safety rules and procedures,
including a system of safety work permits; (x) investigation, reporting, and recording of all accidents; and
(xi) safety awards as incentive to follow safety procedures at plant and department levels.
(g) The Environmental and Safety Organization
50.   At Vadodara, environmental protection and safety activities are the responsibility of two separate
divisions, which are headed respectively by the Environment and Ecology Senior Manager and the Safety
Chief Manager. They both report directly to the General Manager, Operation, who in turn reports directly
to the Operation Director of the whole Vadodara complex. The Environment and Safety divisions also
have functional links with other divisions under other lines of management, which supply environmental
and safety data to them.



95               Annex 4, page 1 of 33
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis
Major Assumptions for Sub-project Financial Cost Estimates
A - New Polypropylene Plant at Vadodara
Design Capacity
* As per SAR: 60,000 tpy
* Actual: 75,000 tpy spheripol grade polypropylene
Process Licenser: Improved Himont spheripol technology from TCM/Montell.
Key Project Dates
* Detailed engineering and project support contract with Technimont India signed: mid-1992
* Commissioning: September 1996
* Commercial Production: January 1997
Historical Productions and Projections
Indian Fiscal Year        tj                Comments
1996/97                  2,900               Start-up
1997/98                 55,000             First full year
1998/99                 65,000                86.6%
1999/00                 70,000                 93%
2000/01 and after        75,000                100%
Investment Costss (Current Rs.)
Million Rs.
Equipment and Materials                        910.9
Civil Works                                     167.9
Erection, Insulation and Painting               79.0
License Fees and Basic Engineering             375.1
Detailed Engineering and Services               41.6
Pre-operating Expenses                          161.5
Total Installed Cost    1736.0
Phasing of Investments (Million Current Rs.)
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    total
114.0    154.2     68.0    238.5    720.7    440.6   1736.0



96               Annex 4, page 2 of 33
Annual Financial Operating Costs at 100% Capacity (75,000 tpy)
Requirement       Price       Cost
per ton   Annual   Rs./ton   (Million Rs.)
Variable Costs
Propylene (ton)               1.02    76,500     17,558.0       1250.1
Catalyst, Chemicals, Packing                                     326.4
Power, Fuel and Utilities                                        656.2
Total Variable Costs                                   1641.7
Fixed Costs
Salaries and Benefits                                             26.4
Maintenance                                                       15.8
Overheads                                                         85.7
Total Fixed Costs                                     127.9
Total Operating Costs                                       1769.6
Incremental Working Capital
Propylene (300 tons)                                  5.3
Catalyst and Chemicals (6 months)                   163.2
Work in Progress (7 days @ Variable Cost)            49.4
Finished Goods (7 days @ Production Cost)            42 9
Total Working Capital             251.1
B - Rehabilitation of Existing Butadiene Extraction at Vadorada
Design Capacity
* As per SAR: rehabilitation of the existing butadiene extraction plant
* Actual: capacity increase of existing butadiene plant by 15,500 tpy to a total capacity of
37,760 tpy
Process Licenser: BASF/LUMMUS
Key Project Dates
* Detailed engineering and project support contract with International Development and
Engineering Associate Ltd. (IDEA) signed early in April 1992



97                Annex 4, page 3 of 33
* Commissioning: September 1996
* Commercial Production: November 1996
Historical Productions and Projections
Indian Fiscal Year    Plant (tpy)   Incremental Production    Comments
(tpy)
1996/97                6,300                                   Start-up
1997/98               24,000              8,000          First full year - before expansion,
plant production was between
17,000 tpy and 20,000 tpy
1998/99               30,000              14,000                 90%
1999/00               33,000              15,000                 95%
2000/01 and after     35,000              15,500                100%
Investment Costss (Current Rs.)
Million
Rs.
Equipment and Materials                    215.0
Civil Works                                 13.6
Erection, Insulation and Painting           71.6
License Fees and Basic Engineering          61.7
Detailed Engineering and Services           27.4
Pre-operating Expenses                      27.6
Total Cost   416.9
Phasing of Investments (Million Current Rs.)
91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95   95/96       96/97
12.4     30.6      63.9     79.3    124.4    106.3



98                Annex 4, page 4 of 33
IncrementalAnnual Financial Operating Costs at 100% Capacity (15,500 tpy)
Requirement         Price       Cost
per ton    Annual    Rs./ton   (Million Rs.)
Variable Costs
C4 Fractions                          1.07     16585       4,910        81.4
Catalyst, Chemicals, Packing                                              1.7
Power, Fuel and Utilities                                               26.6
Total Variable Costs                                        109.7
Fixed Costs
Salaries and Benefits                                                    4.6
Maintenance                                                              6.9
Overheads                                                               19.8
Total Fixed Costs                                         31.3
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                 141.0
Incremental Working Capital
US$ Million
C4 fractions (1 month)                                          6.8
Catalyst and Chemicals (6 months)                               0.9
Work in Progress (7 days @ Variable Cost)                       2.3
Finished Goods (7 days @ Production Cost)                       3.0
Total Working Capital                   13.0
C - New Polybutadiene Rubber Plant at Vadorada
Design Capacity
* As per SAR: expansion of IPCL's existing Polybutadiene complex from 20,000 tpy to 50,000
tpy, using increased production of butadiene through the above rehabilitation of the existing
butadiene plant financed under the project and Nagothane complex production.
* Actual: 30,000 tpy new plant
Process Licenser: Japan Syntectic Rubber.



99                Annex 4, page 5 of 33
Key Project Dates
* Detailed engineering and project support contract with Toyo Engineering India Ltd. (TEIL)
signed by mid-1992
* Commissioning: September 1996
* Commercial Production: January 1997
Historical Productions and Projections
Indian Fiscal Year                        tpy                        Comments
1996/97                                  2,100                        Start-up
1997/98                                 14,000         First full year, production was limited by
availability of butadiene.
1998/99                                 25,000         83% IPCL intends to import butadiene.
1999/00                                 28,500                         95%
2000/01 and after                       30,000                         100%
Investment costs (Current Rs.)
Million Rs.
Equipment and Materials                                  861.7
Civil Works                                              154.1
Erection, Insulation and Painting                         74.3
License Fees and Basic Engineering                       158.0
Detailed Engineering and Services                         40.9
Pre-operating Expenses                                   112.6
Total Installed Cost                 1401.6
Phasing of Investments (Million Current Rs.)
91/92    92/93    93/94        94/95   95/96    96/97
34.6     42.7      42.9       253.1   667.8   360.5



100               Annex 4, page 6 of 33
Annual Financial Operating Costs at 100% Capacity (30,000 tpy)
Requirement         Price       Cost
per ton   Annual (tpy)  Rs./ton  (Million Rs.)
Variable Costs
Butadiene (MT)                           1.02      30,600     14,890       455.6
Catalyst, Chemicals, Packing                                               196.1
Power, Fuel and Utilities                                                  146.6
Total Variable Costs                                       798.3
Fixed Costs
Salaries and Benefits                                                       22.7
Maintenance                                                                 12.0
Overheads                                                                   65.4
Total Fixed Costs                                        100.1
Total Operating Costs                                               898.4
Incremental Working Capital
Butadiene (320 tons)                                       9.3
Catalyst and Chemicals (6 months)                         98.1
Work in Progress (7 days @ Variable Cost)                 28.2
Finished Goods (7 days @ Production Cost)                 30.8
Total Working Capital     166.3
C - Ethylene Cracker Expansion at Nagothane
Design Capacity
* As per SAR: expansion of IPCL's existing Ethylene cracker from 300,000 to 400,000 tpy
* Actual: 100,000 tpy increase up to 400,000 tpy ethylene Production
Process Licenser: License provided in .the earlier agreement with Stone and Webster (USA) for the
construction of the cracker. The detailed engineering and project support for the expansion were handled
by Engineers India Ltd (EIL) who did the detailed engineering of the first phase of the cracker.
Key Project Dates
* Project implementation activities only started after decisions were taken in July 1995 on the
use of the additional ethylene, to be obtained through the expansion, for the manufacture of



101               Annex 4, page 7 of 33
HDPE in the existing plant after its debottlenecking and upgrading to a newly developed
technology (pentane based process).
*  as of 31 March 1998, the loan closing date, the expansion erection works were essentially
completed and pre-commissioning activities started.
*  the tie-in with the main plant was to take place during the 45 days shut down scheduled to
start at the end of April 1998.
*  Commissioning: expected by end of June 1998
*  Commercial Production: July 1998
Historical Productions and Projections
Indian Fiscal Year     Total Production        Incremental            Comments
(tpy)           Production (tpy)
Ethylene  Propylene  Ethylene  Propylene
*  Initial Capacities.  300,000   63,000 (a)                       (a) could produce up to
80,000 tpy propylene if
*  Capacities post     400,000     78,250    100,000     15,250    FCC C3 is added as feed
Expansion                                                      stock
* Actual Production
1997/98                331,775     68,317
1998/99                320,000     66,050     20,000     3,050    New furnace at 60%
starting July 1998. Take
into account plant shut
down for tight-in.
1999/00                380,000     75,00      80,000     12,200    expansion at 80%
2000/01 and after      400,000     78,250    100,000     15,250    expansion at 100%
Main By-Products
* C4 fractions: 4.660 tpy
* Pyrolysis gasoline: 4,625 tpy
* Raw fuel: 700 tpy
* Tail gas: 24,340 tpy



102               Annex 4, page 8 of 33
Investment Costss Excluding N2102 and Phasing (Millioh of Current Rs.)
Total     94/95    95/96     96/97    97/98    98/99
Equipment and Materials     417.5      0.0      0.0      46.6   370.9       0.0
Civil Works                   1.9      0.0      0.0       1.6      0.3     0.0
Erection, Insulation and     64.8      0.0      0.0      15.3    49.5       0.0
Painting
License Fees and Basic       13.6      0.0      4.6       4.2      4.8      0.0
Engineering
Detailed Engineering and     47.2      0.0      1.4      22.8    22.9       0.0
Services
Pre-operating Expenses        6.5      0.0      0.0       1.0      5.4      0.0
Other Costs1                 93.6      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    93.6
Total Cost   645.1     0.0      6.1      91.5   453.9    93.6
Incremental Annual Financial Operating Costs at 100% Capacity (100,000 Ipy of ethylene and 15,250
tpy of propylene)
Requirement    Price        Cost
per ton Annual  Rs./ton  (Million Rs.)
Variable Costs
C2/C3                                1.47  147000    4075           599.0
Catalyst, Chemicals                                                  18.2
Power, Fuel and Utilities                                           356.0
Selling Expenses
Total Variable Costs                                          973.2
Fixed Costs
Salaries and Benefits                                                 5.3
Maintenance                                                          15.8
Total Fixed Costs                                           21.1
Total Operating Costs                                             994.3
Incremental Working Capital
Catalyst and Chemicals (6 months)                             9.1
Work in Progress (7 days @ Variable Cost)                    20.6
Finished Goods (7 days @ Production Cost)                    21.2
Total Working Capital                50.9
Include 72.4 million rupees remaining to be paid



103               Annex 4, page 9 of 33
E - LLDPE/H1DPE Expansion at Nagothane
Design Capacity
I  As per SAR: expansion of the LLDPE/HDPE plant (consisting of two 80,000 tpy LLDPE or
55,000 tpy HDPE swing trains), to include a new 75,000 tpy broad range molecular weight
HDPE train, using ethylene from the proposed 100,000 tpy expansion of the cracker.
*  Actual: capacity expansion of the existing LLDPE/HDPE plant from 160,000 tpy to 220,000
tpy. The incremental 60,000 tpy of broad range molecular weight HDPE will be obtained
through the debottlenecking and upgrading of one of the existing two trains using a newly
commercially available technology (pentane based process), resulting in substantial savings
in capital and operating costs.
Process Licenser: B.P. Chemicals of England, the process licenser of the technology, also licensed the
original units. The revamping was implemented by Samsung of South Korea under an Engineering,
Procurement and Construction contract (EPC).
Key Project Dates
*  Project activities only started after decisions were taken in July 1995, on the use of the
additional ethylene for the manufacture of HDPE in the existing plant after its
debottlenecking.
-  Agreement with BP signed on 2 November 1995 and was effective on 11 January 1996.
*  EPC contract signed and effective on 1 February 1997 and contractual completion date for
works is 31 May 1998.
*  as of 31 March 1998, the loan closing date, the expansion activities were about 91%
completed (overall progress).
*  the tie-in with the main plant is expected to take place during the 45 days shut down
scheduled to start at the end of April 1998.
*  Commissioning: expected by end of June 1998
*  Commercial Production: July 1998



104               Annex 4, page 10 of 33
Historical Productions and Projections
Indian Fiscal Year   Total Production    Incremental Production         Comments
(tpy)                 (tpy)
HDPE      LLDPE    Total        HDPE
*  Initial Capacities.   55,000 per   80,000   160,000           (a) can produce up to 80,000 tpy
(tpy)              train     per train                        propylene if FCC C3 is added as
feedstock
*  Capacities post                        220,000     60,000
Expansion
*  Actual and
Projected
1995/96               58,492     49,092   107,584
1996/97               78,773     51,742   130,515
1997/98               94,468     44,212   138,680
1998/99                                               27,000     9 months at 60%
1999/00                                               48,000     expansion at 80%
1999/00                                               54,000     expansion at 90%
2000/01                                               57,000     expansion at 95%
2001/02 and after                                     60,000     expansion at 100%
Investment Costss (Million of Current Rs.)
Million  94/95   95/96    96/97    97/98   98/99
Rs.
Equipment and Materials    511.4                      21.2   490.2
Civil Works                35.1                                35.1
Erection, Insulation and
Painting
License Fees and Basic    262.3            231.1      30.0      1.2     0.0
Engineering
Detailed Engineering and    131.8            7.5       14.1   110.3
Services
Pre-operating Expenses     33.4              0.9        3.5    29.0
Other Costs                25.7                         1.1     5.0    19.6
Total Cost        1500.2            239.4       69.9   670.7   520.2



105              Annex 4, page 11 of 33
IncrementalAnnual Financial Operating Costs at 100% Capacity (60,000 tpy)
Requirement       Cost       Cost          Cost
per ton  Annual   Rs./ton  Rs./ton HDPE  (Million Rs.)
Variable Costs
Ethylene                        1.028   61,680   8,020.0                    494.67
Butene -1 and Hydrogen                                           20.0           1.2
Catalyst, Chemicals                                            1361.0          81.7
Power, Fuel and Utilities                                       719.0         43.1
Packing Materials                                               279.0          16.7
Total Variable Costs                                                  637.4
Fixed Costs
Incremental Salaries and
Benefits
Incremental Maintenance (3% of additional
Equipment and materials costs)                                                15.3
Incremental Overheads
Total Fixed Costs                                                   15.3
Total Operating Costs                                                     652.7
Incremental Working Capital
Raw Materials                                     0.0
Catalyst and Chemicals (6 months)               40.8
Work in Progress (7 days @ Variable Cost)       27.4
Finished Goods (7 days @ Production Cost)       27.7
Incremental Working Capital                     95.9



106              Annex 4, page 12 of 33
Major Assumptions
India Inflation Rate-- Wholesale Price Index- Fiscal Years (March-March)
1981-82=100 1988189=100 1997-98=100
1988-89                       154.3       100.0        46.4
1989-90                       165.7       107.4        49.8
1990-91                       182.7       118.4        54.9
1991-92                       207.8       134.7        62.5
1992-93                       228.7       148.2        68.8
1993-94                       247.8       160.6        74.5
1994-95                       274.7       178.0        82.6
1995-96                       294.8       191.1        88.7
1996-97                       314.3       203.7        94.5
1997-98                       332.5       215.5       100.0
Exchange Rate
(Rupees/US$)         91-92       92-93       93-94       94-95    95-96    96-97    97-98
Exchange Rate         22.7        25.9        30.5         31.4     32.4     35.4      37.2
97=100           61.0        69.6        82.0        84.4      87.1     95.2    100.0
Inflation-97/98=100   62.5        68.8        74.5         82.6     88.7     94.5    100.0
Source: 91-92 to 1995-96:1ndia- Sustaining Rapid Economic Growth-1997
96-97 and 97-98: computed from rates in E. Lim's Memo dated December 9,1997



107                Annex 4, page 13 of 33
Major Assumptions - Financial and Economic Price of C2/C3
1997(A)      1998      1999       2000      2005       2010
Financial Price
International Basket of Fuel Oils 1/:
Current US$/MT                           100.7       94.7      93.2       91.6     101.4      109.8
International Inflation Index 2/         100.0      102.4     105.6      108.9     124.0      127.3
Constant 1997 US$/MT                      100.7      92.4      88.3       84.1      81.8       86.2
Constant 1997 Rupees 3/
Exchange Rate                      37.2      37.2       37.2      37.2       37.2      37.2
Rs/MT                             3,746     3,437     3,283      3,129     3,043      3,207
Landfall Price of C2/C3:
Percent of Fuel Oil Bskt 4/        0.55      0.65       0.75      0.85       1.00      1.00
Rs/MT of C2/C3                   2,060      2,234     2,462      2,659     3,043      3,207
Separation Costs (Rs/MT)                 1,350      1,350     1,350      1,350     1,350      1,350
Total before taxes and royalties         3,410      3,584     3,812      4,009     4,393      4,557
Actual                   3,300
Royalties and
Non-recoverable sales taxes 5/             454       491        522       549        602       624
Total with taxes                         3,754      4,075     4,334      4,559     4,995      5,181
Economic Price
Fuel Oil FOB Singapore (US$/MT)) 6/         91         83        80         76        74         78
Fuel Oil Landed Bombai (US$/MT)            101         93        90         86        84         88
Exchange Rate                               37         37        37         37        37         37
Fuel Oil Landed Bombai (Rs/MT)           3,757      3,478     3,337      3,199     3,121      3,270
C2/C3 (Rs/MT) 7/                         4,338      4,016     3,854      3,693     3,603      3,775
Separation Cost (Rs/MT)                  1,350      1,350     1,350      1,350     1,350      1,350
C21C3 price to IPCL 8/                   5,688      5,366     5,204      5,043     4,953      5,125
1/ Starting 1997/98, the landfall price of natural gas is established as a percentage of the international price
of a basket of high and low sulfur fuel oils: HSFO FOB Singapore; HSFO FOB Arab Gulf;LSFO FOB
Mediterranean; LSFO CIF NEW Basis ARA. Prices beyond 1997 based on Bank projections of crude oil prices (Nov 1997).
2/ MUV Index as projected by World Bank.
3/ Real Exchange rate assumed to remain constant.
4/ Declared policy is to reach 75% on year 1999, and re-assess in year 2000 time-period for reaching 100%.
5/ Equivalent to 13.7% of basic price in 1996/97
6/ In constant 1997 terms, assuming trends projected by the Bank for international crude oil prices.
71 Assuming the following calorific values: Fuel Oil: 9,700 kcal /MT; C2C3: 11,200 kcaVMT).
8/ Exclusive of all taxes and royalties



Cost-Benefit Analysis: Major Assumptions - Economic and Financial Prices of Project Output
Linear Low density Polyethylene (LLDPE)
I                      Actual                      |                       Projected                     l
Economic Price                       |CY1993 CY1994 CY1995 CY1996 CY1997 Mar-98|verage|CY1998 CY1999 CY2000 CY2001 CY2002 CY2003 CY2004+1
93-97
Intemational Price, C&F S.E. Asia (US$/MT)  580    674    886    795    770   630    741
Intemational Price Index, 1997=100       98.7   97.8  110.7  105.8  100.0  102.0             100    100    100
Int'l Price (Constant 1997 US$1MT)        588    689    800    751    770   618    720    630    700    738    738    738    738            738
Insurance, 0.25%ofC&Fprice                  1      2       2      2       2     2       2      2       2       2      2       2      2        2
Port Charges and Landing Costs (US$ /MT)   35     35      35     35      35     35     35     35      35      35     35      35     35       35
Ex-port Storage 1/
Economic Price, Plant Gate (US$/MT)       624    726    837    788    807   654    756    667    737    775    775    775    775            775
Exchange Rate                                                                        37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2    37.2
Economic Price, Plant Gate (Rs/MT)                                                 28,141  24,812 27,416 28,830 28,830 28,830 28,830   28,830
Actual                      I                      Projected                                          C
Financial Price                       FY1994 FY1995 FY1996 FY1997 FY1998 Mar-98AverageiFY1999 FY2000 FY2001 FY2002 FY2003 FY2003 FY2004+                           oo
93-97
Average Realization Price 21 of IPCL (Rs/MT) 21,518 34,287 40,137 38,232
Equalized Freight Charges               1,250   1,250   1,250  1,250
Plant Gate Price (RsIMT)               20,268 33,037 38,887 36,982
Exchange Rate                            30.5   31.4   32.4   35.4   37.2  39.0
Plant Gate Price (Current US$IMT)         665  1,052   1,200  1,045                   990
Plant Gate Price (Constant US$1MT)        673   1,076   1,084    987                  955    938    982    996    960    923    886         849
Percent above Economic Plant Gate         8%    48%    29%    25%                    26%                                                                          >
Import Duties                            65%    65%    40%    30%    35%             47%    43%    35%    30%    25%    20%    15%         10%                    X
1/ Importers storage cost near port before delivery. Based on two month storage (equivalent to 1.5 shipment), excluding financial charges on inventory.          x
2/ Net-back price to IPCL, delivered to distribution points, after discounts and excluding excise taxes. Price is for Fiscal Year March to March                  a
and is assumed to represent prices of previous year (e.g: FY 97 price=1996 calendar year price)                                                                 >
3/ Projected financial prices assume that price will set at economic price plus import duties, and that import duties                                             0
will steadily decline to 10% by year 2004.



Cost-Benefit Analysis: Major Assumptions - Economic and Financial Prices of Project Output
High Density Polyethylene (HDPE)
Actual                                           Projected
Economic Price                       CY1993 CY1994 CY1995 CY1996 CY1997 Mar-98 verage CY1998 CY1999 CY2000 CY2001 CY2002 CY2003 CY2004+
93-97
International Price, C&F S.E. Asia (US$/MT)  517    694    693    795    768   660    693
Intemational Price Index, 1997=100      98.7   97.8  110.7  105.8  100.0  102.0
Int'l Price (Constant 1997 US$IMT)      510    679    767    841    768   673    713    670    680    713    713    713    713          713
Insurance, 0.25% of C&F prce              1      2       2      2      2      2      2       2      2      2       2      2      2        2
Port Charges (US$IMT)                    35      35     35     35     35    35      35      35     35     35      35     35     35       35
Other Landing Costs (US$/MT)             15      15     15     15      15    15      15     15     15     15      15     15      15      15
Economic Price, Plant Gate (US$IMT)     562    730    819    893    820   725    765    722    732    765    765    765    765          765
Exchange Rate                                                                      37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2    37.2
Economic Price, Plant Gate (Rs/MT)                                               28,451 26,853 27,226 28,453 28,452 28,451  28,452   28,452
Actual                                            Projected
Financial Price 3                    FY1994 FY1995 FY1996 FY1997 FY1998 Mar-98 Average|FY1999 FY2000|FY200I|FY2002 FY2003 FY2004 FY2005+1
94-97
Average Realization Price 2/ of IPCL (Rs/MT) 25,240 33,991  36,792 37,180
Equalized Freight Charges              1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250
Plant Gate Price (Rs/MT)              23,990 32,741  35,542 35,930
Exchange Rate                           30.5   31.4   32.4   35.4   36.3  39.0
Plant Gate Price (Current US$IMT)       787  1,043  1,097  1,015                    985
Plant Gate Price (Constant US$IMT)      776  1,020  1,214  1,074                  1,021    995    955    964    928    892    857       821
Constant 97 Rupees/MT                         39,947                37,984 37,012 35,521  35,852 34,524 33,198 31,872   30,546
Percent above Economic Plant Gate       38%    40%    48%    20%                   34%                                                                        X
Import Duties                           65%    65%    40%    30%    35%                   43%    35%    30%    25%    20%    15%        10%
OQ
1/1Importers storage cost near port before delivery. Based on two month storage (equivalent to 1.5 shipment), exduding financial charges on inventory.
2/ Net-back price to IPCL, delivered to distribution points, after discounts and excluding excise taxes. Price is for Fiscal Year March to March              Ln
and is assumed to represent prices of previous year (e.g: FY 97 price= 1996 calendar year price)                                                            0
31 Projected financial prices assume that price will set at economic price plus import duties, and that import duties
will steadily dedine to 10% by year 2004.



Cost-Benefit Analysis: Major Assumptions - Economic and Financial Prices of Project Output
Polypropylene (PP)
Actual                     |                      Projected
Economic Price                       CY1993 CY1994 CY1995 CY1996 CY1997 Mar-98 verageJCY1998 CY1999 CY2000 CY2001 CY2002 CY2003 CY2004+
93-97
International Price, C&F S.E. Asia (US$/MT)  620    767    976    812    714   530    778
International Price Index, 1997=100     98.7   97.8  110.7  105.8  100.0  102.0
Int'l Price (Constant 1997 US$/MT)       628    784    882    767    714   520    755    530    643    755    755    755    755           755
Insurance, 0.25%ofC&Fprice                 2      2       2      2       2     1       2      2      2       2      2       2      2        2
Port Charges and Landing Costs (US$ /IMT)  35    35      35     35     35    35       35     35     35      35     35      35     35       35
Importers Ex-port Storage I/              15     15      15     15      15    15      15     15      15     15     15      15     15       15
Economic Price, Plant Gate (US$/MT)      680    836    934    819    766   571    807    582    694    807    807    807    807           807
Exchange Rate                                                         37.2          37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2    37.2
Economic Price, Plant Gate (Rs/MT)                                                30,017 21,644 25,828 30,011  30,009 30,009 30,011   30,011
|                      Actual                      I                      Projected
Financial Price 3/                    FY1994 FY1995 FY1996 FY1997 FY1998 Mar-98Average|FY1999 FY9 20 FY220I|FY2002 FY2003 FY2003 FY2004+
94-97 
Average Realization Price 2/ of IPCL (Rs/MT) 28,892 41,016 43,316 39,146
Equalized Freight Charges               1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250
Plant Gate Price (Rs/MT)              27,642 39,766 42,066 37,896
Exchange Rate                           30.5   31.4   32.4   35.4   37.2                    37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2    37.2
Plant-gate price (Current US$/MT)        906  1,266  1,298  1,071                  1,135
Plant-gate price (Constant US$/MT)       895  1,239  1,437  1,012   1,001          1,146    795    904   1,018    980    943    905       867
Plant-gate price (Contant 97-98 Rupees)  33,276 46,075 53,466 37,640 37,225               29,564 33,635 37,878 36,473 35,068 33,666   32,262                   >
Percent above Economic Plant Gate       32%    48%    54%    23%                    42%
Import Duties                           75%    65%    40%    30%    35%             53%    43%    35%    30%    25%    20%    15%        10%                   X
1/ Importers storage cost near port before delivery. Based on two month storage (equivalent to 1.5 shipment), excluding financial charges on inventory.
2/ Net-back price to IPCL, delivered to distribution points, after discounts and exduding excise taxes. Price is for Fiscal Year March to March
and is assumed to represent prices of previous year (e.g: FY 97 price=1996 calendar year price)                                                              a'
3/ Projected financial prices assume that price will set at economic price plus import duties, and that import duties                                          0
will steadily decline to 10% by year 2004.



Cost-Benefit Analysis: Major Assumptions - Economic and Financial Prices of Project Output
Polybutadiene Rubber (PBR)
Actual                     |                      Projected
Economic Price                       |CY1993 CY1994 CY1995 CY1996 CY1997 Mar-98[AveragetCY1998 CY1999 CY2000 CY2001 CY2002 CY2003 CY2004+
95-97
Intemational Price, CIF India (US$/MT)                1,300  1,000    850   740   1,050
Intemational Price Index, 1997=100      98.7   97.8  110.7  105.8  100.0  102.0
Intl Price (Constant 1997 US$/MT)                     1,174    945    850   725    990    740    880    990    990    990    990          990
Insurance, 0.25% of C&F price                             3      2      2      2       2      2      2       2      2       2      2        2
Port Charges and Landing Costs (US$ /MT)                 35     35      35    35      35     35      35     35     35      35     35       35
Ex-port Importer's Storage Cost                          15     15      15    15      15     15      15     15      15     15     15       15
Economic Price, Plant Gate (US$/MT)                   1,227    998    902   777   1,041    792    932  1,042   1,042  1,042  1,042    1,042
Exchange Rate                                                         37.2          37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2    37.2
Economic Price, Plant Gate (Rs/MT)                                                38,739 29,455 34,674 38,761  38,758 38,757 38,757   38,759
Actual                                             Projected
Financial Pice 3/                     FY1994 FY1995 FY1996 FY1997 FY1998 Mar-98Average FY1999 FY2000|FY2001IFY2002 FY2003 FY2003 FY2004+
94-98
Average Realization Price 2/of IPCL (Rs/MT) 41,181  40,911  60,924 60,922 45,000 43,000 49,788
Equalized Freight Charges               1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250  1,250
Plant Gate Price (Rs/MT)              39,931  39,661  59,674 59,672 43,750 41,750 48,538
Exchange Rate                            30.5   31.4   32.4   35.4   36.3  39.0
Plant Gate Price (Current US$/MT)       1,309  1,263  1,842   1,686  1,205  1,071   1,461
Plant Gate Price (Constant US$/MT)      1,326  1,292  1,664  1,593  1,205  1,050   1,416  1,169  1,313  1,423   1,324  1,225  1,175    1,126
Constant Rupees/MT                                                   52,677 43,487 48,847 52,934 49,249 45,564 43,723   41,884
Percent above Economic Plant Gate                      36%    60%    34%   35%    36%                                                                            X
Import Duties                           85%    65%    40%    50%    45%   45%    66%    53%    45%    40%    30%    20%    15%            10%
1/ Importer's storage cost near port before delivery. Based on two month storage (equivalent to 1.5 shipment), excluding financial charges on inventory.
2/ Net-back price to IPCL, delivered to distribution points, after discounts and excluding excise taxes. Price is for Fiscal Year March to March                 9
and is assumed to represent prices of previous year (e.g: FY 97 price=1996 calendar year price)                                                                0
3/ Projected financial prices assume that price will set at economic price plus import duties, and that import duties
will steadily decline to 10% by year 2004.



Nagothane Gas Cracker Expansion - Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unt Rate 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1996-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2012-2013
Price Index, 1997-98=100                68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7   94.5   100       107
Capacity Utilization                                                               20.0%   80.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production
-Ethylene (tons)                                                               20000   80000  100000  100000  100000  100000  100000  100000
of which: for HDPE plant                                                      27756   49344   55512   58596   61680   61680   61680   61680
Merchant ethylene                                                             30656   44488   41404   38320   38320   38320   38320
-Propylene (tons)                                                              3050   12200   13725   15250   15250   15250   15250   15250
-By-products
04 Fraclions                                                               746    3728    4660    4660    4660    4660    4660    46860
Pyrolysis gasoline                                                         740    3700    4625    4625    4625    4625    4625    4625
Raw fuel                                                                   112     560      700     700     700     700     700      700
Tail gas                                                                  3894   19472   24340   24340   24340   24340   24340   24340
Invshtent Costs
In Cunrent Rupees (Milion)                                 6.1   91.5  453.9    93.6
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                6.9   96.8  453.9    87.5
Incremental Worddng Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                                      50.8                                                    -50.8
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                                      47.5                                                    -47.5
Incremental Operatng Costs
021C3                         1.47
Rs./MT, Constant 97 temrs                                    3,754  3,754   4,075   4,334   4,559   4,646   4,733   4,821   4,908   5,181
Total Cost, Rupees (Million)                                                119.81  509.68  670.17  682.99  695.81  708.63  721.45  761.61
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                                  3.64   14.56   18.20   18.20   18.20   18.20   18.20   18.20
Power, Fuel & Utilities                                                        71.20  284.80  356.00  356.00  356.00  356.00  356.00  356.00
Selling Expenses                                                                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                   194.65  809.04 1,044.37 1,057.19 1,070.01 1,082.83 1,095.65 1,135.81
Salaries and Benefits                                                           5.30    5.30    5.30    5.30    5.30    5.30    5.30    5.30
Maintenance                                                                    15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82            x
Overhead                                                                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                         21.12   21.12   21.12   21.12   21.12   21.12   21.12   21.12
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                             215.77  830.16 1,065.49 1,078.31 1,091.13 1,103.95 1,116.77 1,156.93
0
0
W.



Nagothane Gas Cracker Expansion - Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit Rate 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01  2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2012-2013
Incremental Revenues
Ethylene for HDPE Plant
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                                 8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020
Sub-total Revenues - Ethylene                                                222.60  395.74  445.21  469.94  494.67  494.67  494.67  494.67
Merchant Ethylene
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                                22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000
Sub-total Revenues - Ethylene                                                  0.00  674.43  978.74  910.89  843.04  843.04  843.04  843.04
Propylene
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton 2/                                             16,241  17,540  17,614  17,614  17,614  17,614  17,614  17,614
Sub-total Revenues - Propylene                                                49.53  213.99  241.75  268.62  268.62  268.62  268.62  268.62
By-products
C4 Fractions                                                                3.11   15.54   19.42   19.42   19.42   19.42   19.42   19.42
Pyrolysis gasoline                                                          4.13   20.65   25.81   25.81   25.81   25.81   25.81   25.81
Raw fuel                                                                    0.42    2.08    2.60    2.60    2.60    2.60    2.60    2.60
Tail gas                                                                    0.46    2.32    2.90    2.90    2.90    2.90    2.90    2.90
Subtotal By-products                                                    8.12   40.59   50.73   50.73   50.73   50.73   50.73   50.73
Total Revenues                                                                  280.25 1,324.74 1,716.43 1,700.18 1,657.06 1,657.06 1,657.06 1,657.06
Net Revenues                                                                        64.49  494.58  650.94  621.86  565.93  553.11  540.30  500.13
Incremental Net benefits                                      -6.88  -96.83 -453.90  -70.46  494.58  650.94  621.86  565.93  553.11   540.30  547.61
Intemal Rate of Retumr           55%
By-product prices
US$                                                                              X
C4 Fractions 1/                                                            4168    4168    4168    4168    4168    4168    4168    4168               r
Pyrolysis gasoline                                                  150    5580    5580    5580    5580    5580    5580    5580    5580
Raw fuel                                                            100    3720    3720    3720    3720    3720    3720    3720    3720              Pa
09
Tail gas                                                             3.2    119      119     119     119      119     119     119      119            t
0
1/ Transported to Baroda. Price is transfer price of Baroda (US$130) less road tanker transport from Nagothane to Baroda (US$20)
2/ Assumed equal to price CIF India                                                                                                                            Li



Nagothane Gas Cracker Expansion - Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit Rate 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01  2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2012-13
Price Index, 1997-98=100            68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7    94.5    100       107
Capacity Utilization                                                               20%     80%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
-Ethylene (tons)                                                             20000   80000  100000  100000  100000  100000  100000  100000
of which: for HDPE plant                                                    27756   49344   55512   58596   61680   61680   61680   61680
Merchant ethylene                                                           30656   44488   41404   38320   38320   38320   38320
-Propylene (tons)                                                             3050   12200   13725   15250   15250   15250   15250   15250
-By-products
C4 Fractions                                                              746    3728    4660    4660    4660    4660    4660    4660
Pyrolysis gasoline                                                       740    3700    4625    4625    4625    4625    4625    4625
Raw fuel                                                                  112     560     700      700     700     700      700     700
Tail gas                                                                 3894   19472   24340   24340   24340   24340   24340   24340
Investment Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)                           6.10   91.50  453.90   93.60
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                           6.88   96.83  453.90   87.48
Taxes and Duties                                       1.16   11.02   36.06   13,75
Total cost excluding T&D                               5.72   85.81  417.84   73.73
Incremental Wotldng Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                                    50.8                                                      -50.8
in 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                                    47.5                                                       47.5
Incremental Operating Costs
C2/C3                     1.47
Rs/ton, Constant 97 terms                                                  5,366   5,204   5,043   5,025   5,007   4,989   4,971    5,125
Total Cost, Rupees (Million)                                              157.76  611.99  741.32  738.68  736.03  733.38  730.74  753.38
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                                 3.64    14.56   18.20   18.20   18.20   18.20   18.20   18.20
Power, Fuel & Utilities  0.9                                                  71.20  284.80  356.00  356.00  356.00  356.00  356.00  356.00
Selling Expenses         0.9                                                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                 232.60  911.35 1,115.52 1,112.88 1,110.23 1,107.58 1,104.94 1,127.58
45
Salaries and Benefits    0.9                                                   4.77    4.77    4.77    4.77    4,77    4.77    4.77    4.77         x
Maintenance             0.94                                                  14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87
Overhead                 0.9                                                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                       19.64   19.64   19.64   19.64   19.64   19.64   19.64   19,64         r
SD
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                            252.24  930.99 1,135.16 1,132.52 1,129.87 1,127.22 1,124.58 1,147.22   m
0
Lo



Nagothane Gas Cracker Expansion - Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit Rate 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2012-13
Incremental Revenues
Ethylene for HDPE Plant
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                             8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020
Sub-total Revenues - Ethylene                                            222.60  395.74  445.21  469.94  494.67  494.67  494.67  494.67
Merchant Ethylene
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                            22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000  22,000
Subtotal Revenues - Ethylene                                               0.00  674.43  978.74  910.89  843.04  843.04  843.04  843.04
Propylene
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton 2/                                         12,648  14,880  16,740  16,740  16,740  16,740  16,740  16,740
Subtotal Revenues - Propylene                                             49.26  289.74  407.45  407.45  407.45  407.45  407.45  407.45
By-products                                                                   8.12   40.59   50.73   50.73   50.73   50.73   50.73   50.73
Total Revenues                                                              279.98 1,400.50 1,882.13 1,839.01 1,795.90 1,795.90 1,795.90 1,795.90
Net Revenues                                                                    27.74  469.51  746.96  706.50  666.03  668.67  671.32  648.68
Incremental Net benefits                                -6.88  -96.83  -453.90  -107.22  469.51  746.96  706.50  666.03  668.67  671.32  696.16
Internal Rate of Retum      57%
In
1/ Import duties of 25% of imported equipment were excluded, and a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 was applied to non-tradable costs (all but equipment costs)
2/ Assumed equivalent to CIF Bombay
(D
x
SQ
(D
0
1'h



Nagothane LLDPE/HDPE Plant Expansion - Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit Rate 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2012-13
Price Index, 1997-98=100                68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7    94.5    100       107
Capacity Utilization                                                                 36.0%   80.0%   90.0%   95.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)                                                                    27000   48000   54000   57000   60000   60000   60000   60000
Investrnent Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)                             239.40   69.90   670.7  520.20
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                             269.90   73.97  670.70  486.17
Incremental Wor1dng Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                                       95.90
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                                       89.63                                                   -95.90
-89.63
Incremental Operating Costs
Ethylene
Rupees per ton 1/                                                             11,904   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020   8,020
Total Cost, Rupees (Million)   1.028                                          330.41  395.74  445.21  469.94  494.67  494.67  494.67  494.67
Butene-1 & Hydrogen                                                               0.54    0.96    1.08    1.14    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                                   36.77   65.36   73.53   77.62   81.70   81.70   81.70   81.70
Packing Materials                                                                 7.52   13.36   15.03   15.87   16.70   16.70   16.70   16.70
Power, Fuel & Utilities                                                          19.40   3448   38.79   40.95   43.10   43.10   43.10   43.10    a
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                     394.62  509.90  573.64  605.50  637.37  637.37  637.37  637.37
Salaries and Benefits                                                             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Maintenance                                                                      15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30
Overhead                                                                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                           15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30   15.30
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                               409.92  525.20  588.94  620.80  652.67  652.67  652.67  652.67
Incremental Revenues
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                   37,984  37,984  37,012  35,521  35,852  34,524  33,198  31,872  30,546  30,546    XD
Total Revenues                                                                  999.33 1,705.02 1,936.01 1,967.89 1,991.86 1,912.34 1,832.79 1,832.79
Net Revenues                                                                        589.40 1,179.82 1,347.08 1,347.09 1,339.19 1,259.66 1,180.12 1,180.12
Incremental Net benefits                                   -269.90  -73.97  -670.70   13.61 1,179.82 1,347.08 1,347.09 1,339.19 1,259.66 1,180.12 1,276.02   OQ
Internal Rate of Return          56%
1/ In 1998/99, 7,756 tons of ethylene are purchased at the merchant price of US$550 per ton (Rs.22,000 per ton).



Nagothane LLDPE/HDPE Plant Expansion- Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit Rate 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2011-12
Price Index, 1997-98=100               68.8    74.5    82.6    88.7    94.5    100      107
Capacity Utilization                                                                  36.0%   80.0%   90.0%   95.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)                                                                     27000   48000   54000   57000   60000   60000   60000   60000
Investment Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)                              239.40   69.90  670.70  520.20
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                               269.90   73.97  670.70  486.17
Duties and Taxes                                           26.99    5.15   18.05    1.83
Total net of D&T                                          242.91   68.81  652.65  484.34
Incremental Worklng Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                                        95.90                                                    -95.90
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                                        89.63                                                    -89.63
Incremental Operating Costs
Ethylene
Rupees per ton 1/                                                              11,904   8,204   8,204   8,204   8,204   8,204   8,204   8,204
Total Cost, Rupees (Million) 1.028                                             330.41  404.82  455.42  480.72  506.02  506.02  506.02  506.02
Butene-1 & Hydrogen                                                                 0.54    0.96    1.08    1.14    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20 
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                                     36.77   65.36   73.53   77.62   81.70   81.70   81.70   81.70    -
Packing Materials                                                                   7.52   13.36   15.03   15.87   16.70   16.70   16.70   16.70
Power, Fuel & Utilities     0.9                                                    15.71   27.93   31.42   33.17   38.79   34.91   34.91   34.91
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                      390.94  512.43  576.48  608.51  644.41  640.53  640.53  640.53
Salaries and Benefits      0.9                                                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Maintenance                0.94                                                    14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38
Overhead                    0.9                                                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                            14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38   14.38
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                                 405.32  526.81   590.86  622.89  658.79  654.92  654.92  654.92   P
Incremental Revenues                                                                                                                                     X
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                    28,451  26,853  27,226  28,453  28,452  28,451  28,452  28,452  28,452  28,452       -
Total Revenues                                                                    735.09 1,365.74 1,536.38 1,621.70 1,707.10 1,707.13 1,707.13 1,707.13
Net Revenues                                                           0.00    0.00  329.77  838.93  945.52  998.81 1,048.31 1,052.21 1,052.21 1,052.21   oq
(D
Incremental Net benefits               0.00    0.00    0.00  -269.90  -73.97  -670.70  -246.02  838.93  945.52  998.81 1,048.31 1,052.21 1,052.21 1,141.84    t,
Internal Rate of Retum        44% 
1/ In 1998/99, 7,756 tons of ethylene are purchased at the merchant price of US$550 per ton (Rs.22,000 per ton).                                         a



Nagothane - Integrated Cracker and HDPE Plant Expansions
Financial Rate of Return
1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02  2002-03  2003-04  2004-05 2012-2013
Net Cash Flow
Cracker Expansion                            -6.88   -96.83  -453.90   -70.46   494.58   650.94   621.86   565.93   553.11   540.30   547.61
HDPE Expansion                             -269.90   -73.97  -670.70    13.61  1,179.82  1,347.08 1,347.09  1,339.19 1,259.66  1,180.12  1,276.02
Total                                   -276.78  -170.79 -1,124.60   -56.85  1,674.41  1,998.01  1,968.95  1,905.12  1,812.78  1,720.41  1,823.63
Intemal Rate of Return    56%
Economic Rate of Return
1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96  1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00  2000-01  2001-02  2002-03  2003-04  2004-05 2012-2013
Net Cash Flow
Cracker Expansion                            -6.88   -96.83  -453.90  -107.22   469.51   746.96   706.50   666.03   668.67   671.32   696.16     a)
HDPE Expansion                             -269.90   -73.97  -670.70  -246.02   838.93   945.52   998.81  1,048.31  1,052.21  1,052.21  0.00
Total                                   -276.78  -170.79 -1,124.60  -353.24  1,308.44  1,692.48 1,705.31  1,714.34  1,720.89  1,723.53   696.16
Intemal Rate of Return    48%
CD
x
h
LO



Vadodara Butadiene Extraction Plant Revamping- Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit
Prioe Index, 1997-98=100         Rate 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999400 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 200344 2004-05 2005406 2006-07 2007.08 2008.09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12
Capacity Utilization                     62 5    68.8   74.5   82 6    88,7   94.5    100
Production (tons)                                                              0.0%   51.6%   90.3%   96.8%  100.0%  100.0%/f 100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
8000  14000  15000  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500
Investment Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)         12.40   30.60   63.90   79.30  124.40  106.30
19.84   44.48   85.77   96.00  140.25  112.49
Incremental Working Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                                13.00
13.76                                                                                                               -13.76
Incremental Operating Costs
C4 Fractions
USS/ton (@ actual transfer price)
Exchange Rate                                                             132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132
Rupees per ton                                                           37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2
Total Cost, Rupees (Million)                                            4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing   1.07                                             42.03   73.56   78.81   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44
Power, Fuel & Utildties                                                             0.89    1.55    1.66    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72
Selling Expenses                                                                   13.73   24.03   25.74   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60   26.60
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                        0.00    0.00    00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
56.65   99.14  106.22  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76  109.76
Salaries and Benefis                                                                                                                                                                                     ,_
Maintenance                                                                        4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55    4.55   'IO
Overhead                                                                            6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90    6.90
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                            19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80   19.80
31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25   31.25
Total Incremental Operating Costs
87.90  130.39  137.47  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01  141.01
Incremental Revenues
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton 1/
Total Revenues                                                            14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890
0.00  119.12  208.46  223.35  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80
Net Revenues
0.00   31.22   78.07   85.88   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79  j>
Incremental Net benefits 
-19.84  -44.48  -85.77  -96.00 -140.25 -126.24   31.22   78.07   85,88   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79   89.79  103.54  r
Internal Rate of Retum                                                                                                                                                                                        X
10%
1/ Source: derived from IPCL Project Completion Report, Annexure XXVI, cost of raw materials in PBR production costs.
Note: Und consumption of raw materials is net of C4 raffinate, assumed to have same price as C4 fraction.
00
0
I-t



Vadodara Butadiene Extraction Plant Revamping - Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit Rate 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-96 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-06 2006-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12
Price Index, 1997-98=100               62.5   68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7   94.5    100
Capacity Utilization                                                              51.6%   90.3%   96.8%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)                                                                   8000  14000  15000  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500  15600  15500  15500  15500  15500  15500
/nvestrnent Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)        12.40  30.60   63.90   79.30  124.40  106.30
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)       19.84  44.48   85.77   96.00  140.25  112.49
Dutiesandtaxes                     0.00    0.17    7.84   12.02   15.55   18.29
Costs, net of taxes                19.84  44.30   77.93   83.98  124.70   94.20
Incremental Working Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                             13.00
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                             13.76                                                                                                            -13.76
Incremental Operating Costs
C4 Fractions
US$/ton (@ actual transfer price)                                             132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132    132
Exchange Rate                                                                37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2
Rupees per Mton                                                             4,910   4,910  4,910  4,910   4,910  4.910   4,910  4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910   4,910  4,910   4,910   4,910
Total Cost, Rs. (Million)  1.07                                             42.03   73.56  78.81   81.44   81.44   81.44  81.44  81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44   81.44
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                                  0.89    1.55    1.66    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72    1.72
Power, Fuel & Utiliies      0.9                                                12.36   21.62   23.17  23.94   23.94   23.94   23.94  23.94   23.94   23.94   23.94   23.94   23.94   23.94  23.94
Subtotal Variable Costs                                                   55.28   96.73  103.64  107.10  107.10  107.10  107.10  107.10  107.10  107.10  10710  107.10  107.10  107.10  107.10  t
Salaries and Benefits       0.9                                                 4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10   4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10    4.10
Maintenance                0.94                                                 6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49   6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49    6.49
Overhead                    0.9                                                17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82   17.82
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                        28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40   28.40
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                              83.68  125.14  132.05  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50  135.50
Incremental Revenues
Price,Constant97-98Rs.Aton(transferpnce)21                                    14,890  14,S90  14,890 14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890
Total Revenues                                                                119.12 208.46  223.35  230.80 230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80  230.80 230.80  230.80
Net Revenues                                                                       35.44   83.32  91.30  95.30  95.30  95.30   95.30  95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30
(D
Incremental Net benefits             -19.84  -44.30  -77.93  -83.98 -124.70 -107.96   35.44   83.32   91.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30   95.30  109.05
Intemal Rate of Retum          12%
Note: UnRt consumption of raw materials is net of C4 raffinate, assumed to have same price as C4 fraction.                                                                                           93
00
1/ Import duties of 25% of imported equipment were excluded, and a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 was applied to non-tradable costs (all but equipment costs)                                     (D
2J Source: derived from IPCL Project Completion Report, Annexure XXVI, cost of raw materials in PBR production costs.
U.)



Vadodara Polybutadiene Plant - Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit
Rabt 1991-921992-931993-941994.951995-96199-97 1997-98 1998-99 199940 200041 2001-02 200243 2003-04 2004-05 2005406 2006-07 200748 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011.12
Price Index, 1997-98=100             62.5   68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7   94.5   100
Capacity Utilization                                                    7.0%  46.7%   83.3%   95.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)                                                       2100  14000  25000  28500  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000
Investment Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)       34.6  42.70  42.90 253.10 667.80 360.50
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)      55.36  62.06  57.58 306.42 752.87 381.48
Incremental Working Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                         166.30
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                         175.98                                                                                                            -175.98
Incremental Operating Costs
Butadiene
US$/ton (@ actual transfer price)                                  400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
Exchange Rate                                                      37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2
Rupees per Mton                                                  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890
Total Cost, Rs. (Million)  1.02                                   31.89 212.63  379.70  432.85  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                      13.73  91.51  163.42  186.30  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10
Power, Fuel & Utilities                                             10.26  68.41  122.17  139.27  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60  146.60
Subtotal Variable Costs                                         55.88 372.56  665.28  758.42  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33  798.33
Salaies and Benefits                                                       22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70   22.70
Maintenance                                                                12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00   12.00 
Overhead                                                                   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40   65.40    N)
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                    100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10  100.10
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                   55.88 472.66  765.38  858.52  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43  898.43
Incremental Revenues
PBR Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                  52,677 43,487  48,847  52,934  49,249  45,564  43,723  41,884  41,884  41,884  41,884  41,864  41,884  41,884  41,884  41,884
PBR Sales Revenues                                                 110.62 608.81 1,221.18 1,508.62 1,477.46 1,366.93 1,311.69 1.256.51 1,256.51 1,,256.51 1,256.51 1,256.51 1,256.51 1,256.51 1,256.51 1,256.51
By-product credits                                                   0.24   1.58    2.83    3.22    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39    3.39
Total Incremental Revenues                                          110.86 610.40 1224.00 1511.84 1480.85 1370.32 1315,08 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90 1259.90
Net Revenues                                                            54.97  137.74  458.63  653.32  582.41  471.89  416.65  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47
Incremental Net benerfts            -55.36  -62.06  -57.58 -306.42 -752.87 -502.49  137.74  458.63  653.32  582.41  471.89  416.65  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  537.45  >
If
Internal Rate of Return       17%                                                                                                                                                                    (
'0
(D
0
Frh



Vadodara Polybutadiene Plant - Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit
Rate 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997T98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12
Pfice Index, 1997-98=100          62.5   68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7   94.5   100
Capacity Utilization                                                  7,0%  46.7%   83.3%   95.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  IOU%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)                                                     2G100  14000  25000  28500  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000  30000   30000  30000
Investment Costs
In Cunrent Rupees (Million)   34.60  42.70  42.90 253.10 667.80 360.50
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)   55.36  62.06  57.58 306.42 752.87 381.48
Less Outies and Taxes          0.00   0.58  19.12  40.65  60.18  88.84
Total net of taxes             55.36  61.48  38.46 265.77 692.69 292.65
/ncremental Working Capital
In Cutrent Rupees (Million)                                      166.30
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                       175.98                                                                                                             -175.98
Incremental Operatin5g Costs
Butacliene
US$Aon (@ actual transfer price)                                 400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400    400
Exchange Rate                                                    37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2   37.2    37.2   37.2
Rupees per ton                                                 14,890 14,890 14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890  14,890
Total Cost, Rn. (Million)   1.02                                31.89 212.63 379.70  432.85  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63  455.63
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                    13.73  91.51 163.42  186.30  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196.10  196,10  196.10  196.10  196.10
Power, Fuel & Utilifies  0.9                                       9,24  61.57  109.95  125.34  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94  131.94
Subtotal Variable Costs                                       54.86 365.71  653.06  744.49  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67  783.67 
Salares and Benefits     0.9                                             20.43  20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43   20.43    9
Maintenance             0.94                                             11.28  11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28   11.28
Overhead                 0.9                                             586  58.86   58,86   56.86   58.8 6   58.86   58.86   58.86   58.86   58.66   58.86   58.86   58.86   58.88   58.86
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                             0.00  90.57  90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57   90.57
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                 54.86 456.28 743.63  835.06  874.24  874.24  874.24  874.24  674.24  874.24  874.24  874.24  874.24  874.24  874.24  874.24
Incremental Revenues
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./ton                                    38,739 29,455 34,674  38,761  38,758  38,757  38,757  38,759  38,759  38,759  38,759  38,759  38,759  38,759  38,759  38,759
Total Revenues                                                    81.35 412.37 866.85 1,104.68 1,162.75 1,162.70 1,162.71 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77 1,162.77
Net Revenues                                                          26.50  -43.92  123.22  269.82  288.50  288.46  288.46  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52
Incremental Net benefits         -55.36  -82.08  -57.58 -306.42 -752.87 -530.96  -43.92  123.22  269.62  288.50  288.46  288.46  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.S2  288.52  464.50    FO
ID
(nternal Rate of Retum      9%                                                                                                                                                                     X
U1Import duties of 25%h of imported equipment were excluded, and a S1andard Conversion Factor of 0.9 was applied to non-tradable costs (all but equipment costs)
n)
(9
0



Vadodara Butadiene Extraction and Polybutadiene Plant
Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12
Butadiene Extraction  -19.84  -44.48  -85.77  -96.00 -140.25 -126.24   31.22  78.07  85.88  89.79  89.79   89.79  89.79  89.79   89.79   89.79  89.79  89.79   89.79  89.79  103.54
PBR               -55.36  -62.06  -57.58 -306.42 -752.87 -502.49  137.74 458.63  653.32  582.41  471.89  416.65  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361.47  361,47  361.47  361.47  537.45
Total Net Benefits  -75.20 -106.54 -143.36 -402.42 -893.12 -628.73  168.96  536.70  739.20  672.20  561.67  506.44  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  640.99
IRR                 16%
Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Butadiene Extraction  -19.84  44.30  -77.93  -83.98 -124.70 -107.96   35.44  83.32  91.30  95.30  95.30  95.30  95.30  95.30   95.30   95.30  95.30  95.30   95.30  95.30  109.05
PBR               -55.36  -62.06  -57.58 -306.42 -752.87 -530.96  43.92  123.22  269.62  288.50  288.46  288.46  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  288.52  464.50
Total Net Benefits  -75.20 -106.37 -135,51 -390.40 -877.58 -638.92   -8.47  206.54  360.93  383.80  383.75  383.76  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  573.55    __
IRR                 10%
CD
D
0
Co
N)



124                           Annex 4, page 30 of 33
Cost-Benefit Analysis of Polypropylene Plant
Financial Price of Propylene
1996-97   1997-98   1998-99   2000-01   2001-02
Propylene Requirements
Polypropylene production    tons        2900    55000    65000    70000    75000
Propytene requirements   1.02/ton       2958    56100    66300    71400    76500
From Vadodara            tons           2958    43000    43000    43000    43000
From Imports             tons              0    13100    23300    14200
From Gandhar             tons                                        14200    33500
Transfer Prices
Vadodara Cost of Production            18348    18348    18348    18348    18348
Import Cost                                      16241    17,540    17,614         0
Gandhar Cost                                                         13764     13764
Total Cost of Propylene
From Vadodara                          54.27    788.96    788.96    78898    788.96
From Imports                                    212.75    408.68    250.12
From Gandhar                                                        195.45    461.09
Total Cost                       54.27   1001.72   1197.64   1234.53   1250.05
US$/ton                           493       480       486       465       439
Average propylene cost 1997198 Av. propylene Cost @ full capacity
USShton    Rs/ton  Rs Million   USSlIton    Rsiton  Rs MitDon
Import cost                    437    16241    212.75
Vadodara Cost                  552    20528    882.71        552    20528    882.71
Total Cost                     525    19527   1095.46        472     17566   1343.80
Gandhar Cost                                                370      13764    461.09
Economic Transfer Price of Propylene
1996-97   1997-98   1998-99   2000-01   2001-02
Propylene Requirements
Polypropylene production    tons        2900    55000    65000    70000    75000
Propylene requirements   1.02/ton       2958    56100    66300    71400    76500
From Vadodara            tons           2958    43000    43000    43000       43000
From Imports             tons                    13100    23300      14200
From Gandhar             tons                                        14200    33500
Transfer Prices
Vadodara Cost of Production            20015    20015    20015    20015    20015
Import Cost                                      13367    15,754    17,614    17,614
Gandhar Cost                                                         14062    14062
Total Cost of Propylene
From Vadodara                          59.20    860.64    860.64    860.64    860.64
From Imports                                    175.11    367.07    250.12      0.00
From Gandhar                                                        199.68    471.08
Total Cost                       59.20   1035.76   1227.72   1310.45   1331.72
US$/ton                            538      496       498       493       468
With SCF=0.9 on non-tradables
Average propylene cost 1997198 Av. propylene Cost @ full capacity
US$/ton    Rstton  Rs Million   USStton    Rs/ton Rs Million
Import cost                    359    13367    175.11
Vadodara Cost                  552    20015    882.71        538    20015    860.64
Total Cost                     507    18856   1057.82        472     17566   1343.80
Gandhar Cost                                                 378    14062    483.16
SCF =   0.975  applied to Banoda and Gandhar
Note: 9Vith commissioning of new cracker in Vadodara



Vadodara Polypropylene Plant - Financial Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit
Rate 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12
Prce Index, 1997-98=100            62.5   68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7   94.5    100
Capacity Utilization                                                  3.9%   73.3%   86.7%   93.3%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)             1                                       2900  55000  65000  70000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  750W0  75000  75000
Investment Costs
In Current Rupees (Million)   114.00 154.20  68.00 238.50 720.70 440.60
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)   182.40 224.13  91.28 288.74 812.51 466.24
Incremental Working Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                      251.10
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                      265.71                                                                                                             -265.71
Incremental Operating Costs
Propylene
Total Cost, Rs. (Million)   1.02                                54.27 1,001.72 1,197.64 1,234.53 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05 1,250.05
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                    12.62  239.36  282.88  304.64  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  328.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40
Power, Fuel & Utilities                                            2.52   47.81   56.51   60.85   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20   65.20
Subtotal Variable Costs                                       69.42 1,288.89 1,537.03 1,600.03 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65 1,641.65    U'
Salaries and Benefits                                                    26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40   26.40
Maintenance                                                               15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82   15.82
Overhead                                                                 85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70   85.70
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                             0.00  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92  127.92
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                 69.42 1,416.81 1,664.95 1,727.95 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57 1,769.57
Incremental Revenues                                                                                                                                                                               >
Price-Constant 97-98 Rs.hon    1                                 37,225  37,225  29,564  33,635  37,878  36,473  35,068  33,666  32,262  32,262  32,262  32,262  32,262  32,262  32,262  32,262    C3
tD
Total Revenues                                                   107.95 2,047.40 1,921.65 2,354.48 2,840.88 2,735.47 2,630.12 2,524.98 2,419.64 2,419.64 2,419.64 2,419.64 2,419.64 2,419.64 2,419.64 2,419.64  X
Net Revenues                                                          38.54  630.59  256.70  626.54 1,071.31  965.90  860.54  755.40  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07    -
92
Incremental Net benefits        -162.40 -224.13  -91.28 -288.74 -812.51 -693.42  630.59  256.70  626.54 1,071.31  965.90  860.54  755.40  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  915.78  0)
ID
Internal Rate of Return     20%
0



Vadodara Polypropylene Plant - Economic Rate of Return (In constant 1997-98 Rupees)
Unit
Rate 1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95 1995-96 1996-97 1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12
Price Index, 1997-98=100          62.5   68.8   74.5   82.6   88.7   94.5    100
Capacity Utilization                                                  3.9%   73.3%   86.7%   93.3%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%
Production (tons)             1                                       2900  55000  65000  70000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000  75000   75000
Investment Costs 1/
In Current Rupees (Million)  114.00 154.20  68.00 238.50 720.70 440.60
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)  182.40 224.13  91.28 288.74 812.51 466.24
Less:Taxes                    25.92  31.75  12.85  40.71  114.83  65.97
Total excluding taxes        156.48 192.38  78.43 248.03 697.68 400.27
Incremental Working Capital
In Current Rupees (Million)                                      251.10
In 1997-98 Rupees (Million)                                      265.71                                                                               -265.71
Incremental Operating Costs
Propylene
Total Cost, Rs. (Million)  1.02                                 59.20 1,035.76 1,227.72 1,310.45 1,331.72 1,331.72 1,331.72 1,331.72 1,331.72 1,331.72 1,331.72 1,331.72
Catalysts, Chemicals & Packing                                    12.62  239.36  282.88  304.64  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40  326.40       a'
Power, Fuel & Utilities  0.9                                       2.27   43.03   50.86   54.77   58.68   58.68   58.68   58.68   58.68   58.68   58.68   58.68
Subtotal Variable Costs                                      74.09 1,318.15 1,561.45 1,669.85 1,716.80 1,716.80 1,716.80 1,716.80 1,716.80 1,716.80 1,716.80 1,716.80
Salaries and Benefits   0.9                                               23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23.76   23,76
Maintenance             0.94                                              14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87   14.87
Overhead                 0.9                                              77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13   77.13
Subtotal Fixed Costs (Incremental)                                  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76  115.76
Total Incremental Operating Costs                                 74.09 1,433.91 1,677.21 1,785.61 1,832.56 1,832.56 1,832.56 1,832.56 1,832.56 1,832.56 1,832.56 1,832.56
(D
Incremental Revenues
Price, Constant 97-98 Rs./to    1                                30,017  30,017  21,644  25,828  30,011  30,009  30,009  30,011  30,011  30,011  30,011   30,011
Total Revenues                                                    87.05 1,650.92 1,406.86 1,807.97 2,250.80 2,250.71 2,250.68 2,250.86 2,250.85 2,250.85 2,250.85 2,250.85  p
(0
Net Revenues                                                          12.95  217.02 -270.36   22.35  418.23  418.15  418.11  418.30  418.28  418.28  418.28  418.28
Incremental Net benefits        -156.48 -192.38  -78.43 -248.03 -697.68 -653.03  217.02 -270.36   22.35  418.23  418.15  418.11  418.30  418.28  418.28  418.28  684.00   0
Internal Rate of Return     9%
1/ Import duties of 25% of imported equipment were excluded, and a Standard Conversion Factor of 0.9 was applied to non-tradable costs (all but equipment costs)



Consolidated Rates of Return for the Project
(Constant 1997/98 Rupees)
1991-92 1992-93 1993-94 1994-95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98 1998-99 1999-00 2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-2013
A. Financial Rate of Return
MGCC Integrated                                -276.78  -170.79 -1,124.60  -56.85 1,674.41 1,998.01 1,968.95 1,905.12 1,812.78 1,720.41 1,707.59 1,702.12 1,696.66 1,691.19 1,685.72 1,680.25 1,680.25  1,823.63
BUT/PBR Integrated  -75.20 -106.54 -143.36 402.42  -893.12  -628.73   168.96 536.70  739.20  672.20  561.67  506.44  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  451.25  640.99
PP               -182.40 -224.13  -91.28 -288.74  -812.51  -693.42   630.59  256.70  626.54 1,071.31  965.90  860.54  755.40  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650.07  650,07  915.78
Total        -257.60 -330.67 -234.63 -691.16 -1,982.41 -1,492.94  -325.05 736.54 3,040.14 3,741.52 3,496.53 3,272.10 3,019.43 2,821.73 2,808.91 2,803.44 2,797.98 2,792.51 2,787.04 2,781.57 3,237.02  1,823.63
IRR                        27%
B. Economic Rate of Return
MGCC Integrated                                -276.78  -170.79 -1,124.60 -353.24 1,308.44 1,692.48 1,705.31 1,714.34 1,720.89 1,723.53 1,726.18 1,721.12 1,716.06 1,711.01 1,705.95 1,700.89 1,790.52   696.16
BUT/PBR Integrated  -75.20 -106.37 -135.51 -390.40  -877.58  -638.92    -8.47 206.54  360.93  383.80  383.75  383.76  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  383.82  573.55
PP               -156.48 -192.38  -78.43 -248.03  -697.68  -653.03   217.02 -270.36   22.35  418.23  418.15  418.11  418.30  418.28  418.28  418.28  418.28  418.28  418.28  418.28  684.00
Total        -231.68 -298.74 -213.94 -638.43 -1,852.03 -1,462.75  -916.06 417.05 1,691.72 2,494.52 2,507.21 2,516.21 2,523.00 2,525.63 2,528.28 2,523.22 2,518.17 2,513.11 2,508.05 2,502.99 3,048.07    696.16    N)
IRR                        21%
Oq
CD
W
LI)
LI)
00
e-h
WD
0



