Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19332-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
(LOAN 3668-CH)
May 5, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Chilean Peso (Ch$)
EXCHANGE RATE
1998 Ch$455 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIEPLAN    -       Corporation for Economic Research in Latin America
(Corporacio'n de Investigaciones Economicas para
Latinoamerica)
FY           -     Fiscal Year
FCM          -     Municipal Common Fund
(Fondo Comun Municipal)
ICR          -     Implementation Completion Report
FCM          -     Municipal Development Fund
MDPP         -     Municipal Development Pilot Project
MDP-1IE      -      Second Municipal Development Project
PEU          -      Provincial Executing Unit
PLAFIMs    -       Municipal Financial Action Plans
(Planes Municipales de Acci6n Financiera)
SUBDERE   -        Ministry of Interior's Subsecretariat of Regional and
Administration (Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Regional y
Administrativo)
Vice President:                                      Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager /Director:                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager / Director:                           Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader / Task Manager                      Miguel Mercado-Diaz



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE            FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Ln. 3668-CH)
Contents
Preface ....i
Evaluation Summary ..
Part  I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.           Statement of Objectives          .1
B.           Achievement of Objectives         .3
C.           Major Factors Affecting the Project   .9
D.           Project Sustainability .11
E.           Bank Performance .12
F.           Borrower Perfo rmance .14
G.           Assessment of Outcome .15
H.           Future Operations .15
I.           Key Lessons Learned .17
Part  II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment .20
Table 2:     Total Cost of Subprojects by Municipalities .22
Table 3:     Results and Findings from National Studies .23
Table 4:     Financial Impact from Selected Subprojects    25
Table 5:     Evolution of Municipal Revenues, 1993-97 .26
Table 6:     Evolution of Municipal Expenditures, 1993-97 . 27
Table 7:     Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject       28
Table 8:     Purchases of Equipment by Type .28
Table 9:     Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual .29
Table 1 OA: Project Costs .30
Table lOB: Project Financing .31
Table 11:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .32
Table 12:  Project Timetable .33
Table 13:    Status of Legal Covenants .34
Table 14:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .38
Table 15:    Bank Resources: Missions. .39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in ithe
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Figures
Figure 1:       Involvement of Mayors and Municipal Personnel ....... 21
Appendixes:
A.              Borrower's Contribution to ICR ................................ 40
B.              Opinion Survey Among Participating Municipalities:
Summary Results ................                        44
C.              Mission's Aide Memoire ................                  53



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Ln. 3668-CH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Municipal
Development Pilot Project in Chile, for which Loan 3668-CH in the amount of US$10
million equivalent was approved December 7, 1993, and became effective February 28,
1994. The loan was closed June 30, 1998. Final disbursement took place November 23,
1998, when a balance of US$978,636.58 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), under the supervision of
Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Task Manager (LCSPR), and reviewed by Geoffrey Shepherd
(LCSPR), David Vetter (LCSPR), and Mario Rothschild (consultant).
Preparation of the ICR was begun in May 1998 to complement the preparation of
the Second Municipal Project. It is based on information in the project files, external
project evaluations conducted by CIEPLAN, and discussions with members of the Project
Executing Unit, and with elected officials and technical staff of participating
municipalities. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its
own evaluation of the project's initial preparation and execution, by conducting an
opinion survey among participating municipalities, and by contributing its views,
providing background material, and ample support whenever needed.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
(Ln. 3668-CH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I.    The Municipal Development Pilot Project (MDPP) was primarily designed to
contribute to more effective public sector management at the municipal level through
technical assistance to a selected group of municipalities. In this way, the project helped
to consolidate the far-reaching legislative and constitutional reforms that have been
enacted since 1991 aimed at increasing the responsibilities and resources assigned to
municipalities and regions in Chile's public sector. As Bank's sector work opportunely
pointed out, these reforms presented both opportunities and risks. To fully capitalize on
the theoretical benefits of decentralization, two major challenges had to be tackled: to
design and fine-tune an adequate system of incentives that promoted fiscal responsibility
among sub-national governments, and to strengthen municipal governments so that they
could fulfill their newly-assigned responsibilities without unduly losses in efficiency. The
MDPP was conceived as the first of one or more stages required to assist the government
in successfully achieving these objectives.
Project Objectives
2.    The specific objectives of the project were to:  a) increase the institutional
capacity of municipal governments to assume their increased responsibilities by: i)
enhancing their capacity to generate own-source revenues; and ii) increasing their
institutional capacity to plan, program, finance, execute, operate, maintain, and monitor
expenditure programs that are economically and financially sound; and b) improve the
national government's capacity to attain its main macroeconomic goals at the municipal
level, especially through the design of incentives for increased efficiency and fiscal
discipline in the national/municipal transfer system.
3.    To accomplish these objectives, the project was structured as a technical
assistance loan that financed two institutional development components, one at the
municipal level and one at the national level. The Municipal Institutional Development
Component financed three sub-components for the twenty-five municipalities that were
selected to participate in the pilot project as follows': i) general municipal management
See Table 2 for a list of individual municipalities.



iii
information systems. The selection of the municipalities was based on their population
coverage, their representativeness in terms of several demographic and financial factors,
and their willingness to implement: institutional reform. The National Institutional
Development Component financed several national studies including the development of
a national information system on municipalities, the analysis of policy alternatives for
improving national/sub-national fiscal relations; and the evaluation of the impact of
regional and sector investments on municipal finances.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives: Overall, the project has attained its main
objective of supporting the government's strategy aimed at enhancing the role of sub-
national governments. It has significantly strengthened the institutional and technical
capacities of participating municipalities, introduced more effective management tools,
updated their technological infrastructure, and improved their ability to increase their own
resources. The technical capacity of municipal staff has been significantly enhanced as a
result of the program, with more than a third of all municipal agents receiving training in
different areas. Moreover, the program has fostered the dialogue between the central
government and the municipalities concerning key policy decisions, such as the
redefinition of roles and responsibilities for service provision among the different levels
of government and the development of a system of incentives to promote efficiency,
accountability and fiscally prudent behavior among sub-national governments. Overall,
the municipalities have been highly receptive to the basic premises of the project and took
a proactive role, generating and implementing subprojects for almost twice the amount
that was initially allocated to them. z The earlier implementation of a set of monitoring and
impact indicators could have contributed to a more systematic compilation of the lessons
learned from this pilot experience. Also, the national government has not made full use
of the findings and recommendations arising from the national studies financed under the
project; thus the impact of these studies was less than anticipated.
5.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The implementation of the project was
characterized by very slow disbursements for almost three years into the project,
reflecting in part the lack of attention that received from both the Borrower and the Bank
during the initial implementation stages. Several factors have contributed to exacerbate
the natural inertia of technical assistance projects, including the lack of technical capacity
in most municipalities, the timing of the 1996 municipal elections, the rather centralistic
approach that the central government initially took towards the project, and the high level
of staff rotation, both within the Bank and the PEU (Project Executing Unit). As a result
of an action plan agreed by the Bank and the PEU's new management and increased Bank
supervision, the project picked up momentum towards the end of FY1996. However,
although the original closing date was extended twice, the project never totally recovered
from its initial delays and almost US$1 million had to be canceled due to the fact that
several subprojects were not completed by the closing date.2
2     The original closing date was -- December 31, 1996 - was extended twice to December 31, 1997
and June 30, 1998 respectively.



iv
6.    Project Sustainability:  The project sustainability is uncertain. Although the
project accomplished its objectives, as a pilot it does not have a likely chance of being
sustainable over the long run. Some of the main reasons for this are: the incentives still
have not changed, and only now are municipalities getting some authority over personnel.
It seems that more needs to be done to achieve sustainability over the long run. In order
for the municipalities to be fiscally responsible in the long run, it still necessary to
remove the disincentives that are intrinsic to the current transfer system. Similarly, for
municipalities to undergo true administrative reform, legislation supporting the
constitutional amendment adding flexibility to municipal authorities in determining the
personnel needs will have to be passed. However, due to the success of the Municipal
Strengthening Component, the Chilean government is considering to make this a
permanent program to assist municipalities in their effort towards reforms, thus the
municipalities that have participated in the program will continue to receive support and
technical assistance. The implementation of the Second Municipal Development project
will also assist the government in refining the assistance to be provided to the
municipalities with the objective that the regional governments will take over this
responsibility until the totality of the municipalities in Chile have received the technical
assistance necessary to carry on the responsibilities been assigned. Also, the government
is doing an excellent job in disseminating the benefits of the program, by inviting the
participating municipalities to share the pilot experience with the non-participating
municipalities.
7.    Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance: The Bank's performance was
satisfactory with respect to the sectorial and technical aspects of project identification
preparation. The Bank's performance during supervision was deficient during the first
half of the life of the project as a result of several factors, including the high level of
rotation that resulted from the Bank's internal reorganizations. Fortunately, this was
reversed during the second half, in time to get the Chilean government to renew its
interest in the project and to capture lessons of experience that were useful in the
preparation of the follow-up operation. Also, a more direct knowledge of the progress
being made in the participating municipalities was not acquired until late into the
implementation of the project, when field visits became a routine component of the
supervision missions. The Borrower's performance was satisfactory regarding project
preparation, implementation and with regard to compliance with loan covenants. The
PEU provided effective administrative and technical support to municipalities during the
implementation of the program. However, the Borrower's centralistic approach during
project preparation and early stages of implementation contributed towards the initial
sluggishness of the project. Also, full cooperation between the Ministry of Interior --
which housed the PEU -- and the Ministry of Finance was never achieved, thus limiting
the overall impact of the project.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    Overall, the outcome of the project has been satisfactory. The main objectives of
the project were attained: municipal management practices have been considerably
improved, technical capacity has been enhanced, and equipment has been updated in the



v
twenty-four municipalities that participated in the project.  Moreover, this pilot
experience has allowed the national government to better assess municipal needs and
weaknesses, thus enhancing its perspective on the challenges of decentralization. The
project has also served as an interface promoting structured consultations between
municipal and national authorities in relation to policy issues central to the process of
decentralization, inclyding the implementation of a national information system on
municipalities.
9.    The following lessons, which are relevant for future municipal projects beyond
Chile, can be learned from the implementation of this Municipal Development Pilot
Project:
10.   Pilot municipal projects can be effective tools in helping define a
decentralization strategy.  By working directly with municipalities, the national
government has the opportunity to develop a better understanding of the challenges to be
overcome as the process of decentralization takes place. Similarly, by participating in the
project, municipalities develop a stronger awareness of the potential benefits from
modernization. Finally, by fostering the dialogue between the central government and the
municipalities, projects of this type strengthen democracy by developing sustainable
democratic institutions.
11.   Technical assistance projects cannot be substitutes for adequate policy
incentives. Although considerable improvements in fiscal responsibility and increased
efficiency can be introduced successfully in individual municipalities through technical
assistance projects, an adequate system of incentives should be built into the overall
transfer system and current legislation to induce full-scale reform.
12.   The development of indicators and tools for systematic learning is key to the
success of a pilot experience. Although individual subprojects and the impact they have
in participating municipalities are important per se, the true value of a pilot project
remains in the "know-how" it builds to later be replicated in full scale.
13.   Municipalities have to play an important role in municipal development
projects to foster their sense of ownership and effective capacity building, This is
important even when the lack of adequate technical capacity may pose initial barriers to
project implementation.
14.   The interest of participating municipalities is a condition sine qua non for the
success of municipal projects. It is important to determine municipal participation
based on the municipalities' willingness to undertake the reforms being promoted by the
project. Moreover, it is necessary to continue to assess this interest during the life of the
project.
15.   The involvement of elected officials is a strong determinant of the depth and
the momentum of the reforms introduced in each municipality. Aside from the
financial incentives of the program, competition among peers might be the best



vi
motivation for elected officials. Thus, dissemination seminars in which mayors share
their success stories or monthly newsletters that showcase progress in the different
municipalities are effective dissemination tools.
16.   The involvement of key municipal staff is a strong determinant of the
sustainability of the reforms in the long run. Even when outside consultants can be
hired in the short and medium term, municipal personnel bring knowledge of the day-to-
day operation of the municipalities and are able to translate new concepts and ideas into
procedures, ordinances, etc., that are likely to be sustained in the long run.
17.   Field visits to municipalities are necessary for the effective supervision of
municipal projects. Progress reports and discussions with national officials are not
sufficient for the effective supervision of municipal projects.   Field visits to
municipalities are necessary to develop first-hand knowledge of the progress of the
project and to understand the difficulties faced by sub-borrowers.
18.   Adequate supervision is a key element in ensuring project success, regardless
of the size of the project. Sound project preparation is not a sufficient condition for the
success of a project, but needs to be complemented with adequate supervision efforts.
Also, it is a mistake to assume that small projects do not require much supervision.



1
Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Statement of Objectives
1.    During its rule, the military government took significant steps to decentralize the
delivery of services to municipalities. However, it also appointed mayors and maintained
strict control over municipal hiring practices. After the restoration of democracy in 1990,
one of the Chilean government's highest priorities was to introduce the necessary
constitutional and legal reforms to allow elections at the municipal level. Another
important objective was to enhance the overall performance of the sub-national public
sector. In particular, the government sought to increase the efficiency of the municipal
governments as providers of key social services financed by the national government,
such as primary health and education, water subsidies, and low-income family assistance,
while maintaining their fiscal balance.
2.     Since 1991, Chile has made considerable progress towards enhancing the role of
sub-national government, enacting far-reaching legislative and constitutional reforms that
have restored democratically elected local authorities and have dramatically increased the
responsibilities, own-source revenues, and resources being transferred both to
municipalities and regions. As opportunely pointed out by the Bank's sector work3, the
changes in the legislation provided a firm legal basis for reform, but the task to transform
the theoretical benefits of decentralization into real ones still laid ahead. The challenge
for the central government as well as for municipalities was to strengthen municipal
institutions by improving the management tools that would enable municipalities to
respond to the newly-identified and strengthened incentives, as well as to fine tune
national and local legislation and administrative regulations.
3.    The Municipal Development Pilot Project - MDPP - was conceived as the first of
one or more stages required to assist the Government in enhancing efficiency, equity, and
fiscal discipline in the sub-national public sector during the implementation of the
recently- enacted sub-national government reforms. At the national level, the project
focused on identifying concrete policy options for strengthening existing incentives and
identifying new incentives for sub-national governments to follow sound fiscal practices.
In addition, the project focused on improving the existing information system for policy
analysis and monitoring of sub-national fiscal performance. At the municipal level, the
project focused on introducing organizational changes and new management techniques
to municipalities willing and able to improve substantially their institutional performance.
3     Chile: Infrastructure Strategy Note (Report No. 11234-CH, 1992); and Chile: Subnational
Government Finance (Report No. 10580-CH, 1993).



2
4.    The project's specific objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR,
November 5, 1993), were:
a)    To increase the institutional capacity of municipal governments to assume
their increased responsibilities by:
i)    enhancing their capacity to generate own-source revenues; and
ii)   increasing their institutional capacity to plan, program, finance,
execute, operate, maintain, and monitor expenditure programs that
are economically and financially sound; and
b)    To improve the national government's capacity to attain its main
macroeconomic goals at the municipal level, especially through the design
of incentives for increased efficiency and fiscal discipline in the
national/municipal transfer system.
5.    To accomplish these objectives, the project was structured as a technical
assistance loan. With a fiscal surplus and favorable balance of payments, Chile had no
significant need for major resource transfers and financial support. Instead, it was the
Government's priority to obtain Bank's technical assistance and policy advice to take full
advantage of the opportunities presented by the move towards decentralization. While
action was urgently needed to assure the effective implementation of the reforms, a full-
scale program was considered too risky during the transition period -- both in terms of the
implementation of the reforms and the forthcoming presidential elections in December
1993. The operation was designed as a pilot project in order to initiate some of the more
urgent steps while controlling the risks. In this way, the operation concentrated only on
those issues that could be addressed effectively in the short run while defining strategies
for future reform in those areas that at the time could not be addressed for lack of
knowledge or resources.
6.    The project financed subprojects under two components: a) municipal institutional
development (US$15.5 million); and b) national institutional development. (US$4.5
million). The municipal institutional development component focused on improving
municipal management in the participating municipalities and financed subprojects in
three sub-components: (i) general municipal management improvement, including the
preparation of Municipal Institutional Strengthening Plans (MISPs) and the improvement
of the overall organizational structure of the municipalities; (ii) financial management
strengthening, including financial planning, record keeping, revenue collection, expense
control, cost recovery strategies, as well as the design and implementation of multi-
purpose property cadastres; and (iii) and municipal management information systems,
including the establishment of management-oriented and sector specific information
systems. The national institutional development component focused on strengthening the
central government's capacity to implement effectively the decentralization reforms
underway and financed studies in several areas, including: (i) the development of a
national information system on municipalities; (ii) the analysis of policy alternatives for



3
improving national/sub-national fiscal relations; and (iii) the evaluation of the impact of
regional and sector investments on municipal finances.
7.    Out of a universe of 334 municipalities4, twenty-five municipalities were selected
to participate in the municipal component on the basis of their representativeness and
their probability of succeeding in generating and implementing reforms. The selection
criteria included: (a) significant coverage of the total population; (b) representativeness in
terms of population size, percentage of rural population and administrative capacity; (c)
demonstrated capacity to implement reform; and (d) a high degree of commitment to
institutional reform. The selection of participating municipalities, however, was done by
the central government without significant municipal involvement. Municipal co-
financing ranged between 10 percent and 30 percent, based on ad-hoc agreements with
individual municipalities. The remaining funds were treated as non-repayable grants.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
8.    In general, the Municipal Development Pilot Project for Chile has attained its
specific objectives, namely, to improve municipalities' ability to generate their own
resources and their efficiency and technical capacity as a whole. Moreover, it has
provided support to the government's decentralization strategy by providing a context for
the dialogue between the central government and the municipalities on important policy
decisions. For instance, the clear definition of functions and responsibilities for service
provision among municipal, regional and central governments, and the development of an
adequate system of incentives to promote efficient, equitable and fiscally prudent
behavior among sub-national governments are key to the long-term success of the
government's strategy.
9.    The project was well-received by municipalities, with twenty-four municipalities
fully participating in the project out of the twenty-five municipalities that started initially.
Municipalities have been very proactive, generating and implementing subprojects for
almost twice the amount that was initially allocated to them (see Table 2). In general,
there was also a high level of involvement with the project on the part both of mayors and
of municipal personnel. Only three municipalities had a low level of involvement by both
the mayor and municipal personnel, while more than half of the participating
municipalities had a medium or high level of involvement by both parts (see Figure 1).
The active involvement of both elected officials and municipal technical staff was
observed to be an important determninant of project's success at the municipal level.
10.   Sector Policies: Less Than Satisfactory Achievement. The project sought to
support the government's efforts towards decentralization, particularly through the design
of a system of incentives promoting efficiency and fiscal discipline at the municipal level.
Within this context, several studies were financed under the project addressing key sector
issues, such as the development of a national information system on municipalities, the
improvement of municipal budgeting, streamlining access to social programs, and
maximizing the impact of sector investments on sub-national governments. In general,
4     The total number of municipalities has increased to 341 municipalities since 1993.



4
these studies have provided a solid contribution towards the development of a consistent
conceptual framework conducive to massive municipal reforrn. However, the national
government has yet to capitalize on the findings. (See Table 3 for a description of the
main results and findings of each study.) In some cases the outcome of the studies felt
short of what was envisioned during project preparation. For instance, the national
information system was designed but not actually implemented as originally expected.
Being perceived as a threat to municipal autonomy, the information system was opposed
by the national association of municipalities. However, an important dialogue between
the municipalities and the central government was set in motion as a result of the project
in which mutually acceptable guidelines were established. Ultimately, such dialogue will
not only improve the quality of the final product, but also will strengthen democracy by
helping build more sustainable democratic institutions.
11.   Although considerable progress has been made towards decentralization, an
overall system of incentives that promote reform, efficiency and modernization at the
municipal level is still being developed in Chile. Some of the remaining challenges are to
eliminate distorted financial incentives while adding transparency to the transfer system,
to increase the level of compatibility at the municipal level of the policies being
implemented by other sectors, to remove institutional barriers that prevent the efficient
management of municipal personnel, and to increase technical capacity at the municipal
level. By working directly with municipalities, the project has helped Ministry of Interior
-- responsible for the project's implementation -- to develop a better understanding of the
challenges still ahead. Contrary to the intentions stated during project preparation, a
strong partnership between the Ministries of Interior and Finance never materialized, thus
hindering the potential impact of the project at the national level.
12.   The project had an important impact among municipalities, raising awareness
among municipalities about the potential benefits from modernization and fiscal
responsibility. In the case of some municipalities, the project has been a catalyst for
structural change, motivating the different actors in a municipality - elected officials,
technical staff, and constituencies - to drastically redefine the municipality's mission as a
provider of services that has to be accountable to its constituencies for its efficiency and
fiscal prudence. The large number of municipalities that want to participate in the Second
Municipal Project points to the success of the MDPP in terms of its demonstration effect.
13.   Financial Objectives: Satisfactory Achievement. The project sought to increase
municipalities' capacity to generate own-source revenues from both the optimization of
traditional sources as well as the identification of alternative ones. The findings from the
initial diagnostic studies (PLAFIMs) indicated that most municipalities were far from
capitalizing on their full revenue potential. For instance, in the case of the municipality of
Curic6, the potential increase in municipal revenues was estimated to be 40 percent of the
actual municipal revenues. In general, municipal cadastres and tax registries were
incomplete and outdated, assessment values were considerable underestimated, collection
rates were generally low, and enforcernent was largely ineffective. Several user fees, such
as gravel extraction from river beds, municipal parking, and advertising permits were not
even being utilized by most municipalities.



5
14.   Twenty subprojects for a total amount of US$841,515 were specifically designed
to examine the potential for improved municipal revenue collection within the framework
of the current legislation and to address the shortcoming identified in each municipality.
As part of these subprojects, some municipal cadastres and registries were updated,
municipal legislation and manuals were revised, tax inspection teams were strengthened,
and programs to reduce tax evasion were implemented. Other subprojects such as
purchasing procedures and inventories of municipal assets aimed at rationalizing
municipal expenditures and the management of municipal real estate were also
implemented under the project.
15.   All subprojects showed significant rates of return at the evaluation stage (see
Section iii, Annex A, Borrower's Contribution). However, due to the lack of a monitoring
system to assess impact, systematic information on the financial gains for all participating
municipalities is not available. However, findings during field visits indicate that most of
these subprojects have had a significant financial impact on the participating
municipalities (see Table 4). In the case of the subprojects being showcased, the financial
benefits arise from increased own-source revenues from a wide spectrum of sources. The
reported annual increases range from US$180,000 in Santa Barbara to US$2 million in
Pirque and Curic6.
16.   The analysis of aggregate municipal accounts for the period 1993-97 indicates
strong municipal finances for the country's municipal sector as a whole and as well as for
the participating municipalities. In general, this analysis of municipal finances shows no
deficits, the robust growth of own-source revenues, as well as sound spending patterns for
the municipal sector, such as approximately equal spending on investments and personnel
(see Tables 5 and 6).5 When looking just at the municipalities that participated in MDPP,
results are equally encouraging except for a decrease in investment relative to personnel
expenditures during 1997. While the analysis does not indicate a superior performance
among MDPP municipalities, it is important to point out that most subprojects still were
being implemented during 1997, thus their impact is not fully reflected in these time
series.
17.   Interestingly, subprojects financing the purchase of equipment for the issuing of
driver licenses and license plates have also had impressive results, pointing towards the
efficacy of market incentives, such as free competition, to motivate municipalities to be
efficient service providers. In Chile, the issuing of driver licenses and license plates is
under municipal jurisdiction, constituting an important source of revenues for
municipalities -- revenues from license plates alone averaged 14 percent of own-source
revenues in 1996. Although in theory municipalities can only issue these permits to their
residents, in practice people go to the municipalities that offer more convenience -- fewer
trips and less waiting time. Some municipalities have capitalized on this opportunity,
modernizing their testing equipment and adding computers to drastically cut the number
of trips required from three or four to just one, and the waiting time from over a month to
5     See report on "Analysis of Chile's Municipal Finances, 1990-96", by Carlos Caro Salas, Division
of Municipalities, The World Bank, Washington, D.C., Nov. 11, 1997.



6
same-day service. hi this way, some municipalities have massively captured clients from
other jurisdictions, in some cases increasing revenues up to ten times over a five-year
period.6
18.   Institutional Development at the National Level: Partially  Satisfactory
Achievement. Being a pilot experience, the project also sought to develop a base of
systematic knowledge to be applied to subsequent municipal projects in Chile. Three sets
of indicators were envisioned at the time of project design, aimed at: a) monitoring
project execution; b) assessing the impact of the different subprojects on the performance
and management of the municipalities; and c) building systematic knowledge and lessons
from experience to facilitate the design of a program to include all municipalities.
However, sound indicators were defined only towards the end of the project and were
partially implemented. Thus, the ability to measure systematically the impact of the
project on the participating municipalities and, most importantly, to develop a sound
know-how for later projects was considerably hindered. In term of the national studies
financed under the study, the national government has not made full use of them and their
findings. The cooperation between the Ministry of Interior -- which housed the PEU --
and the Ministry of Finance that was anticipated during project preparation never
developed, thus hindering the potential impact of the project at the national level.
19.   Institutional Development at the Municipal Level: Highly  Satisfactory
Achievement. The project sought to directly introduce organizational changes and new
management techniques in the participating municipalities to improve their institutional
performance. A total of 548 subprojects have been financed under the project, with a
total cost of US$23.2 million. In general, subprojects were aimed at: a) improving
municipal management techniques; b) strengthening financial planning and management;
and c) implementing municipal information systems (see Table 7).
20.   Municipal Management: A total of 218 subprojects aimed at improving municipal
management practices were implemented for a total cost of US$9.9 million, or 43 percent
of the overall portfolio. These subprojects included: i) initial diagnostic and actions plans
(PLAFIMs) in all participating municipalities; ii) organizational development; iv)
training; v) social programs; and vi) service to the public.
21.   The overall impact of these subprojects on the participating municipalities has
been very significant, adding transparency and efficiency to their performance. Despite
their deficiencies7, the PLAFIMs gave municipalities the opportunity to examine the way
they operated, identify areas that needed to be strengthened, and define strategies to
accomplish newly-defined objectives. Both physical and strategic planning were badly
6      For instance, Pirque has increased its revenues for the issuing of driver licenses and license plates
from P$90 million in 1992 to P$1,000 million in 1997.
7      It is important to note, however, that the implementation of the PLAFIMs suffered from serious
deficiencies, including a methodology that was too academic and rigid. For instance, the mayor of Pirque
had a well-defined action plan he wanted to implement with the support of the program, but was put on hold
and not properly incorporated into the corresponding PLAFIM. In general, the PLAFIMs took too long to
be developed and resulted, in several cases, in extensive wish lists that were not easy to operationalize.



7
needed in most municipalities to control their rapid and unordered growth. Training
subprojects have been very successful, not only because they have directly increased the
technical capacity of municipal staff but have served as motivation tools as well. A third
of all permanent municipal agents have received training as part of the program.
Subprojects designed to improve the quality of customer services and image development
have been very successful, incorporating into the municipal sector some of the guiding
principles of the private sector. Although a few subprojects have focused on the
provision of municipal social services -- e.g., health and education -- this is an area that
was not fully explored under the project.
22.   As the result of organizational subprojects, most municipalities have a more
transparent organizational structure with an emphasis on the clear definition of
responsibilities and enhanced coordination across the different areas. However, a
profound administrative reform has not been achieved in most cases as the result of
several factors, including their high level of complexity, fuzzy definition, and the lack of
a clear counterpart within the municipality. Most importantly, municipalities do not have
the ability to change the size and configuration of their personnel under the current
legislation. The current legislation determines the number of municipal employees and
provides a de facto tenure system that offers no incentives for the municipal staff to be
efficient.8 Although a constitutional amendment has been passed already allowing the
more flexible management of municipal personnel, the change in the corresponding
legislation is still pending. The change in the law is, of course, a prerequisite for any
subprojects to have a substantial impact in this area.
23.   Financial Planning  and Management: A  total of 74  subprojects were
implemented for a total cost of US$3.2 million, or roughly 14 percent of the overall
portfolio. These subprojects focused mainly on two areas: i) the implementation of
financial management systems; ii) the increase of municipal own-source revenues; iii)
cadastre systems; and iv) economic development. As discussed in the previous section,
those subprojects aimed at increasing municipal revenues have had an important financial
impact on the municipalities. Moreover, the implementation of financial administration
systems has significantly contributed towards the efficient administration of municipal
resources. Several municipalities have developed innovative financial planning practices,
with the budget process gradually becoming a relevant tool by which priorities are
defined in an increasingly participatory manner. Improved purchasing practices
implemented in several municipalities have also resulted in substantial savings that, in
one case, allowed the municipality to purchase three additional ambulances. Inventories
of municipal assets have also rendered unexpected financial gains, not only from the
more efficient use of space and management of municipal leases but, in some cases, the
identification and appraisal of municipal assets that have been previously unknown,
including even a valuable municipal art collection! In general, financial strengthening
subprojects have been among the most effective ones, mainly because the problems to be
solved were of a clear technical nature and had a technically-sound and rather
8     There is only a 20 percent margin of flexibility given by personnel that can be added under
contract.



8
autonomous municipal counterpart in the person of the Chief of Finances of each
municipality.
24.   Multi-purpose cadastres systems are being developed in most municipalities,
which combined with land-use studies and development plans have provided
municipalities with management tools for systematic decision making in the short,
medium and long run. Moreover, one of the main objectives of these cadastre projects is
to create an effective geographically-based fiscal database to adequately administrate
municipal own-source revenues.
25.   Municipal Management Information Systems: A total of 256 subprojects were
implemented for a total cost of US$10.1 million, or 43 percent of the overall portfolio.
Most participating municipalities lacked even the most basic infrastructure in terms of
computers and communication systems. The project financed the purchase of basic
equipment, such as fax and photocopy machines, radio systems, computers, audio-visual
equipment to support community events, etc. (Table 8). Most importantly, it also
financed the design, implementation, and training corresponding to the different systems
of municipal administration and financial management. In most cases, the design of
information systems has resulted in the total re-engineering of municipal processes, thus
improving the management of the municipality as a whole. Although the level of
sophistication of the different information systems that have been implemented varies
among municipalities, they all support sound decision making and management by
providing municipal authorities and technical staff with timely, easily accessible,
integrated information.
26.   Public Sector Development: Highly Satisfactory Achievement.  Municipal
management practices in participating municipalities are considerably more efficient and
transparent as the result of the project. There is ample evidence of major improvements in
the municipalities' internal operation, provision of services, financial management
practices, and human and technological resources. As mentioned above, in some cases
the project has been a catalyst for the drastic re-definition of the role of the municipality
as an efficient and accountable provider of services.
27.   It is important to note, however, that the level of impact of the project varies
among participating municipalities. These differences in impact are related both to
systematic factors, such as size, technical capacity, etc., and to ad hoc factors, such as
vision, personality, and level of involvement of the different actors at the municipal level.
In general, it was observed that smaller and medium municipalities were more open to the
reforms being promoted by the project, as compared to larger municipalities, particularly
those in the Santiago metropolitan area. On the other hand, a minimum level of technical
capacity in the municipality was necessary for the project to have any real impact.
Finally, it was observed that the level of involvement manifested by elected officials and
technical personnel was correlated with the scope of the reforms and their sustainability.
In general, it was observed that the higher the level of involvement of the mayor and
his/her direct management team, the stronger the momentum to introduce more drastic
and comprehensive the reforms. Similarly, it was also observed that the higher the level



9
of involvement of the technical staff, the more effectively reforms were incorporated into
the day-to-day operation of the municipality and the more likely they are to be sustained
in the long run.
28.   Other Project Achievements: Although there were not among the project's
explicit objectives, the MDPP has also contributed to improve community participation
and to develop significant expertise on municipal issues within the private sector. The
PLAFIMs provided a forum for community-wide discussions on the future of each
municipality, with several communities playing an active role and providing relevant
input. Similarly, the PLAFIMs and subsequent subprojects unintentionally functioned as
paid intemships in which consultants had the opportunity to learn about the municipal
sector since consultant firms in Chile lacked expertise on municipal matters at the time
when the project was started. This situation, of course, brought some discontent on the
part of the municipal technical staff who perceived they were doing the consultants' work
despite the large salary differentials. However, as outsiders, consultant firms have added
credibility and transparency to the process, helping municipalities to re-examine their
performance in a more systematic and unbiased manner. Consultant firms have played an
active role in the implementation of the MDPP. As a result, they have gained
considerable experience in the municipal sector and have developed a solid knowledge
base which is already being transferred back to municipalities that did not participate in
the project.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
29.   The implementation of the project was characterized by very slow disbursements
during the first three years, until the end of 1996 (see Table 9). The initial delays were
the result of several factors, including the lack of technical capacity in most
municipalities, the timing of the 1996 municipal elections, the rather centralistic approach
that the central government initially had towards the project, and the high level of staff
rotation, both within the Bank and the PEU. Moreover, both the Bank and the national
government gave the project little attention during early implementation stages. The
project's poor performance record led the Bank to classify the project as unsatisfactory,
also the government appointed new management for the PEU and took several actions to
revitalize the project towards the end of FY1996. As a result of an action plan agreed by
the Bank and the PEU's new management, the project picked up momentum and
disbursed at an annual rate of 26 percent over the next two-and-a-half years. Although
the project's closing date was extended twice -- from December 31, 1996 to December
31, 1997 and to June 30, 1998 respectively --, the project never totally recovered from its
initial delays and almost US$1 million had to be canceled due to the fact that several
subprojects were not completed by the closing date. To avoid a financial burden to the
municipalities, the Chilean government provided the necessary financing to complete the
execution of those subprojects.
30.  In exarnining the causes of the delays experienced by the project, the following
factors appear to have been the most significant ones:



10
31.   A rather centralistic approach of the national government towards the project.
Initially, the central government took a rather paternalistic approach that lacked
significant municipal involvement. For instance, participating municipalities were
selected without an effective test of their willingness to participate. As project funds
were treated as grants, the project had no way of filtering those municipalities that were
just interested in what was perceived as "free money" without a genuine understanding of
the objectives of the project. Municipal co-financing was in some cases too low and did
not function as a test of will for municipalities. Also, some of the PLAFIMs responded
almost literally to the guidelines proposed by the central government as a result of the
municipalities' lack of experience with this type of projects, the consultants' lack of
expertise on the municipal sector and, in some cases, the lack of input from municipal
authorities. Moreover, the subprojects that were identified by each municipality as part of
their diagnostic studies were, in some cases, overruled by the PEU, which imposed the
subprojects that it considered important. As a result, many municipalities felt no real
ownership of the project.
32.   Municipal elections in 1996, which resulted in the change of half of the mayors in
participating municipalities.  In most projects, the change of elected officials often
delays implementation, as the need of the newly-elected authorities to familiarize
themselves with individual projects is generally overshadowed by more urgent affairs. In
the case of MDPP, the municipal elections presented an additional challenge to the
already slow implementation of the project. Although the need to revise drastically the
project's implementation strategy had become obvious both to the central government
and the Bank by March 1996, the forthcoming September municipal elections precluded
the government from taking any major actions during the following six months. The
PEU, however, used the municipal elections to re-launch the project, thus fully
capitalizing on the situation. Shortly after the newly-elected authorities assumed their
posts, the mayors of all participating municipalities were invited to a meeting where the
objectives and mechanics of the project were presented. Most importantly, some of the
mayors who had been re-elected were invited to share their success stories, thus
effectively promoting the project among the incoming mayors. With political support for
the project now effectively in place in several municipalities, key technical staff of all
participating municipalities were invited to a second meeting, in which they had the
opportunity to revise the portfolio of subprojects to reflect municipalities' own needs.
This strategy was a turning point for the project, as it fostered the political support and a
sense of ownership among municipalities that was needed for the project to succeed.
33.   High level of staff rotation The Bank's 1994 internal reorganization brought
considerable instability to the supervision of the project. During a period of a few months,
the project was under the supervision of five different task managers in three different
divisions, with the consequent losses in continuity and consistency. To a lesser degree,
this scenario was replicated within the PEU where, as reported in the self-evaluation
studies, the high turn-around among both management and municipal coordinators
hindered the implementation of the project at the municipal level. As a result, the project
received little attention from either the Bank or the national government during early
stages of implementation.



I1
34.   Project Costs. Actual project cost was higher than anticipated -- US$24 million
rather than US$20 million -- as the Chilean government decided to increase their
counterpart financing of the project. Overall, the cost of the national studies was
considerably lower than anticipated at appraisal: US$820,000 compared to US$3.8
million (see Tables 1OA and lOB). The lower costs in this component resulted from the
cancellation of one of the studies as well as budgets for the remaining studies that were
considerably lower than estimated at appraisal. It is important to point out that, although
the quality of the studies has been satisfactory, the participation of international
consultant firms was almost null. Alternatively, the cost of the municipal strengthening
component amply surpassed the original estimates -- US$23.2 million compared to
US$13 million -- due to the large number of subprojects that have been financed. Bank
financing amounted to US$9.02 million, as the project never totally recovered from its
initial delays and several subprojects with a total cost of almost US$1 million were still
under implementation after the closing date. As the Chilean Government will provide the
necessary financing to complete the execution of these subprojects, the Chilean
counterpart increased from US$10 to US$15 million, or 62.5 percent of the total cost.
D.    Project Sustainability
35.   Sustainability: Uncertain. Although the project accomplished its objectives, as
a pilot it does not have a likely chance of being sustainable over the long run. Some of
the main reasons for this are: the incentives still have not changed, and only now are
municipalities getting some authority over personnel. It seems that more needs to be done
to achieve sustainability over the long run. In order for the municipalities to be fiscally
responsible in the long run, it still necessary to remove the disincentives that are intrinsic
to the current transfer system. Similarly, for municipalities to undergo true administrative
reform, legislation supporting the constitutional amendment adding flexibility to
municipal authorities in determining the personnel needs will have to be passed.
However, due to the success of the Municipal Strengthening Component, the Chilean
government is considering to make this a permanent program to assist municipalities in
their effort towards reforms, thus the municipalities that have participated in the program
will continue to receive support and technical assistance. The implementation of the
Second Municipal Development project will also assist the government in refining the
assistance to be provided to the municipalities with the objective that the regional
governnents will take over this responsibility until the totality of the municipalities in
Chile have received the technical assistance necessary to carry on the responsibilities
been assigned. Also, the government is doing an excellent job in disseminating the
benefits of the program, by inviting the participating municipalities to share the pilot
experience with the non-participating municipalities.
36.   If the adequate incentives are set in place, the prospects for sustainability are
good. It was evidenced from visits to participating municipalities and reports from local
officials that the project has significantly changed the concept of municipal management,
emphasizing planning, efficiency, emphasis on results, coordination between sectors, etc.
Also, the project has significantly increased the productivity of the municipalities as a



12
result of improved technical capacity and the technology support that has been
introduced.
37.   As pointed out above, the sustainability of the project depends largely on the
involvement of its technical staff. Although the mayor's commitment is key in terms of
providing an overall vision that guides the efforts towards reforms, the real test is to gain
the support of the municipal bureaucracy to effectively translate conceptual guiding
principles into the day-to-day functioning of the municipality. In this regard, it is
important to guarantee that adequate incentives, such as bonus payments and
compensation time, can be made available to key municipal personnel to ensure their full
participation.
38.   The Chilean government is considering making this a permanent program to assist
municipalities in their efforts towards reforms. In this way, those municipalities that
participated in the program will continue to receive support and technical assistance.
Also, the large number of municipalities that want to participate in the second municipal
project points out to the success of the project in terms of its "demonstration effect." In
terms of the national studies financed under the project, most of them will be expanded
under the second municipal project, thus ensuring continued progress on key policy issues
related to decentralization, as well as sustained dialogue between the central government
and the municipalities.
E.    Bank Performance
39.   Project Identification: Satisfactory. The Bank correctly identified the need to
strengthen the institutional capacity of both the national government and the
municipalities to capitalize on the efforts towards decentralization, thus supporting the
larger national objective of improved public management and enhanced resource
mobilization of sub-national governments. In retrospect, it may have been important to
incorporate regional governments as well, not only to strengthen their institutional
capacity but to clarify the responsibilities of all levels of government as part of the
process of decentralization.
40.   Project Preparation: Satisfactory.  During preparation, the Bank identified
some of the key issues to be addressed in order to achieve project success. At the
national level, the Bank focused on those issues that could be addressed in the short run
while defining strategies for future reform in those areas that could not be addressed at
the time due to lack of knowledge or resources. At the municipal level, the Bank
provided the mechanisms for municipalities to diagnose and define the specific
subprojects to be implemented later under the project. However, the considerable delays
experienced during the first two years suggest that a greater level of municipal
involvement during project preparation would have fostered their sense of ownership and
actual understanding of the project.
41.   Project Appraisal: Satisfactory. During appraisal, the Bank took into account
some of the risks that could adversely affect the project and took steps to mitigate them.
For instance, the project was design as a pilot experience rather than as a full-scale



13
program to account for the potential lack of continuity in the reform process. On the other
hand, stronger mechanisms to test municipalities' willingness to participate would have
been needed. The selection of municipalities by the central government based on a set of
technical criteria ensured representativeness of the participating municipalities. However,
as most municipal activities were financed with government grants, such a selection
mechanism did not fully capture municipalities' commitment towards institutional
reform. Finally, the definition of specific indicators and corresponding benchmarks could
have been a condition of effectiveness to ensure the implementation of the comprehensive
systems of reporting and monitoring envisioned at appraisal.
42.   Project Supervision: Deficient. The Bank's performance in terns of supervision
was uneven over the life of the project.  During the early stages of project
implementation, the Bank gave the project little attention as the result of its internal
reorganization in 1994, which resulted in an unusually high turnover of task managers
and division chiefs at a critical stage, with the consequent losses in continuity.  Also,
supervision budgets were low, may be reflecting a perception that small projects do not
require much supervision.
43.   Alternatively, supervision of the project was highly satisfactory during the second
half of the life of the project, with the Bank working closely with the Borrower to
overcome the initial sluggishness in the implementation of the project and to maintain the
focus on the objectives of the project. Bi-annual supervision missions, together with field
visits to the participating municipalities became a routine part during the second half of
the project. As a result, the Bank developed first-hand knowledge of the progress of the
project and the difficulties being faced by the sub-borrowers. Moreover, the Bank had a
tangible presence in the participating municipalities, helping to maintain interest for the
project and providing local officials with well-deserved recognition. The attainment of
the project's objectives was a direct result of the increased supervision efforts.
44.   The turn-around in the project's performance after 1996 indicates that sound
project preparation is not a sufficient condition for the success of a project, but needs to
be complemented with adequate supervision efforts. Although the project's ownership
ultimately remains with the Borrower, the Bank ought to play a key role in ensuring that
the project is making adequate progress and that the objectives are being met. This role is
even more important in countries like Chile, where the involvement of the Bank is sought
on the basis of its technical expertise rather than on the need for financing.
F.    Borrower Performance
45.   Preparation of the Project: Satisfactory. The central government played a very
active role in the preparation of the project, being responsible not only for contributing its
views to the project design but for drafting its own Project Manual, as well as bidding,
procurement and other project documents. It would have been useful to provide a more
active role for the municipalities participating in the projects to enhance project design
and their sense of ownership.



14
46.   Project Implementation: Satisfactory. The project had a PEU  in the
Subsecreataria de Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo (SUBDERE) of the Ministry of
Interior, which was responsible for working directly with the municipalities in the design,
evaluation, monitoring and supervision of the subprojects financed under the project. As
pointed out above, the close cooperation between the Ministries of Interior and Finance
that was envisioned at project preparation failed to be developed. As a result, the
government missed the opportunity to fully capitalize on the outcomes of the project --
primarily the national studies -- to inform its sector policy.
47.   In relation to the municipal component, the PEU's initial approach towards the
project was rather paternalistic, which contributed to the initial sluggishness of the
project. However, the implementation strategy was drastically revised in 1996, and the
project was successfully put back on track by convening the mayors of all participating
municipalities, revising action plans to reflect the priorities of the municipalities, and
aggressively implementing several equipment and training subprojects to show tangible
results. The SUBDERE is also to be credited for organizing the first Symposium on
Municipal Development Projects in Latin America held in Chile in 1997.
48.   The PEU was highly effective in the performance of the responsibilities that were
assigned to it, such as the preparation of bidding documents, controlling reimbursements,
and the submission of the annual independent audits. Although the PEU produced timely
performance reports, adequate monitoring and reporting indicators were not developed
until late into the implementation of the project despite the Bank's continuous insistence
on the subject, as documented by numerous Aide Memoir. The performance of individual
municipal coordinators has been critical to the success of the project. They have been
directly responsible for the coordination of all subprojects being implemented in each
individual municipality, as well as for providing unlimited guidance and technical
assistance to municipalities. The external evaluations conducted by the Corporaci6n de
Investigaciones Economicas para Latinoamerica (CIEPLAN) have also been highly
valuable, which have provided a systematic and unbiased assessment of the quality of the
initial diagnostic studies and some of the municipal portfolios, thus capturing important
lessons from experience.
49.   Finally, the performance of the municipalities that participated in the project has
also been highly satisfactory. They actively participated in the preparation of the initial
diagnostic studies and were directly responsible for the preparation and implementation
of their action plans. Moreover, the contribution of municipal resources to the project has
been substantial, not only in terms of counterpart financing but also in terms of the time
and energy of the municipal counterparts.
50.   Compliance with Covenants: Satisfactory. On the whole, compliance with
legal covenants has been satisfactory. Over the life of the project, all covenants were met
satisfactorily, including compliance with annual audit reports and progress reports.



15
G.   Assessment of Outcome
51.   Overall Rating: Satisfactory. On the whole, the project objectives have been
met satisfactorily. The project widely promoted improved management practices among
the participating municipalities. Confirming the expectations underlying the project's
design, local authorities have actively participated in subproject design, evaluation and
bidding processes, thus resulting in considerable improvements in their institutional
capacity. The project also has provided support to municipalities in enhancing their
capacity to generate own-source revenues within the framework posed by the current
legislation. In general, the subprojects implemented in this area have had an important
financial impact. Over the life of the project, participating municipalities have developed
a close working relationship with the PEU, relying on them for technical assistance. In
this way, municipal staff has enhanced the way in which they perceive their role as
service providers and administrators of municipal resources, complementing their first-
hand knowledge of the operation of the municipality with sound technical criteria.
52.   The project has also successfully served as an interface promoting structured
consultations between municipal and national authorities in relation to policy issues
central to the process of decentralization, including the implementation of a national
information system on municipalities. Overall, the project has contributed to enhance the
national government's perspective of the challenges to be overcome if decentralization is
to take place without undue losses in efficiency. However, the national government has
yet to act on several of these challenges.
H.   Future Operations
53.   Based on the experience from this project, there are several lessons to be learned,
most of which have been already incorporated into the Second Municipal Development
Project (MDP-ll, Ln. 4429-CH). This follow-up operation replicates the model of the
MPPP, in which the Ministry of Interior supports the participating municipalities as they
identify, prepare and implement institutional development sub-projects. The MDP-Il will
continue to provide technical and financial assistance to the national and municipal
governments as they continue on their path towards municipal reform. There are still
important challenges ahead, both in terms of strengthening municipal governments as
well as developing and adopting a system of incentives conducive to efficiency and
prudent fiscal behavior at the municipal level.
54.   Several lessons learned during the implementation of the MDPP have been useful
in the preparation of the follow-up operation, including:
a)    The selection criteria of municipalities to participate in the project should
adequately take into account municipalities' demonstrated commitment
toward institutional reform.
b)    All criteria to be applied to municipalities, such as eligibility criteria, share
of municipal counterpart, etc., should be specified up front in a clear and
transparent manner to generate confidence among municipalities regarding
both the central government and the project itself.



16
c)    The technical soundness of municipal counterpart has to be ensured,
particularly in small- and medium-sized municipalities in which weak
technical capacity  has been  generally  a bottleneck.   Allowing
municipalities to use counterpart funds to hire external consultants to
support them in the irmplementation of the project might be helpful.
d)    There is no  culture of supervision  of consultant firms among
municipalities. As most of the subprojects involve consultant firms, up-
front training of key municipal staff in the preparation of terms of
reference, bidding documents, contracts, etc., might contribute to improve
the overall quality of municipal portfolios.
e)    A set of performance indicators should be developed to monitor the
achievement of objectives, both at the project and subproject levels.
Performance indicators are particularly important in this type of project in
which impact is highly related to other variables, especially the
macroeconomic ones. For instance, the impact of specific subprojects on
municipal finances as well as in the provision of services has to be well
documented before, during, and after the implementation of the project.
Increased collection rates of municipal taxes and user fees, additional
sources of revenues, specific savings from more efficient management
practices, decreased waiting times for the public are all legitimate
measures of subproject impact.
f)    Subprojects should emphasize the implementation stage. Otherwise, there
is the risk of financing too many studies that are either too vague or
detached from the specific reality of each municipality and thus are not
likely to be implemented.
g)    Keep municipal portfolios within reasonable bounds. It is important not to
overload the municipalities with too many subprojects, since they seem to
have a limited capacity to absorb new concepts.
h)    The PEU should capitalize on its competitive advantages. It can explore
and systematically compare alternative technical solutions to problems that
are faced by many municipalities to capitalize on potential economies of
scales. It can also promote cross-fertilization and the dissemination of best
practices among municipalities. The role of the PEU as a laboratory for
institutional learning should also be emphasized.
i)    The PEU should be further strengthened. Given the higher number of
participating municipalities under the Second Project, the PEU should be
assigned more resources to provide needed technical assistance to the
municipalities. Municipal coordinators have effectively overseen the
overall portfolio of individual municipalities. The addition of some sector
specialists within the PEU might be useful to provide specific sector



17
expertise, to facilitate cross-fertilization among municipalities, and to
ensure continuity when coordinators change.
j)    The financing of physical investments might, in some cases, be an
effective complement of specific institutional strengthening subprojects. In
theory, funds for physical investments could be made available to
participating municipalities through sector lines of financing. However,
this did not wok well in practice due to the lack of coordination and the
bureaucratic barriers.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
55.   Pilot municipal projects can be effective tools in helping define a
decentralization strategy.  By working directly with municipalities, the national
government has the opportunity to develop a better understanding of the challenges to be
overcome as the process of decentralization takes place. Similarly, by participating in the
project, municipalities develop a stronger awareness of the potential benefits from
modernization. Finally, by fostering the dialogue between the central government and the
municipaIities, projects of this type strengthen democracy by developing sustainable
democratic institutions.
56.   Technical assistance projects cannot be substitutes for adequate policy
incentives. Although considerable improvements in fiscal responsibility and increased
efficiency can be introduced successfully in individual municipalities through technical
assistance projects, an adequate system of incentives should be built into the overall
transfer system and current legislation to induce full-scale reform.
57.   The development of indicators and tools for systematic learning is key to the
success of a pilot experience. Although individual subprojects and the impact they have
in participating municipalities are important per se, the true value of a pilot project
remains in the "know-how" it builds to later be replicated in full scale.
58.   Municipalities have to play an important role in municipal projects to foster
their sense of ownership and effective capacity building. This is important even when
the lack of adequate technical capacity may pose initial barriers to project
implementation.
59.   The interest of participating municipalities is a condition sine qua non for the
success of municipal projects. It is important to determine municipal participation
based on the municipalities' willingness to undertake the reforms being promoted by the
project. Moreover, it is necessary to continue to assess this interest during the life of the
project.
60.   The involvement of elected officials is a strong determinant of the depth and
the momentum of the reforms introduced in each municipality. Aside from the
financial incentives of the program, competition among peers might be the best
motivation for elected officials. Thus, dissemination seminars in which mayors share



18
their success stories or monthly newsletters that showcase progress in the different
municipalities are effective dissemination tools.
61.   The involvement of key municipal staff is a strong determinant of the
sustainability of the reforms in the long run. Even when outside consultants can be
hired in the short and medium term,, municipal personnel bring knowledge of the day-to-
day operation of the municipalities ;and are able to translate new concepts and ideas into
procedures, ordinances, etc., that are likely to be sustained in the long run.
62.   Field visits to municipalities are necessary for the effective supervision of
municipal projects. Progress reports and discussions with national officials are not
sufficient for the effective supervision of municipal projects.   Field visits to
municipalities are necessary to develop first-hand knowledge of the progress of the
project and to understand the difficulties faced by sub-borrowers.
63.   Adequate supervision is a key element in ensuring project success, regardless
of the size of the project. Sound project preparation is not a sufficient condition for the
success of a project, but needs to be complemented with adequate supervision efforts.
Also, it is a mistake to assume that small projects do not require much supervision.



19
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1:             Summary of Assessment ..................................                    20
Table 2:             Total Cost of Subprojects by Municipalities ............... 22
Table 3:             Results and Findings from  National Studies ............... 23
Table 4:             Financial hnpact from  Selected Subprojects ............... 25
Table 5:             Evolution of Municipal Revenues, 1993-97 ............... 26
Table 6:             Evolution of Municipal Expenditures, 1993-97 .......... 27
Table 7:             Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject ...................... 28
Table 8:             Purchases of Equipment by Type ................................  28
Table 9:             Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................... 29
Table 1OA:   Project Costs .................................                                     30
Table lOB:           Project Financing ................................. 31
Table 11:            Related Bank Loans/Credits .................................     32
Table 12:            Project Timetable .................................                         33
Table 13:            Status of Legal Covenants .........................               ........ 34
Table 14:            Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................              38
Table 15:            Bank Resources: Missions .................................                  39
Figures
Figure 1:            Involvement of Mayors and Municipal Personnel ...... 21



20
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives        Substantial    Partial       Negligible       Not
Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                  /
Sector Policies                 _
Financial Objectives                 /                _  _      _ 
Institutional Developmente            //                                           X
Physical Objectives                                 _                           /
Poverty Reduction                _/
Gender Issues                                 _/
Other Social Objectives          =                    X_____ __ 
Environmental Objectives             .                                          /
Public Sector Management             /
Private Sector Development   I_I                                         I
Other                          I    _I                     I __
B. Project Sustainability
Project Sustainability         |      Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                     Highly          Satisfactory        Deficient
Satisfactory.
Identification                                            A
Preparation Assistance        _
Appraisal                                                 /
Supervision'  o
9      The achievement of institutional development objectives was satisfactory at the municipal level,
and partially satisfactory at the national level.
10     The overall supervision of the project was deficient during the 1994-95 period, mainly as a result
of the Bank's internal reorganization and subsequent re-assignation of the project to three different
divisions and five task managers. Project supervision was highly satisfactory during the second half of the
life of project.



21
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance              Highly             Satisfactory           Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                               VI
Implementation                                 _          /
Covenant Compliance                                       /
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of                 Highly        Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory         Highly
Outcome                    Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
/
Figure 1
Level of Involvement of the Mayor and Municipal Personnel
in Participating Municipalities
~0 
i             .
g C ~~~~~~~~~............................ ...... .....J .... . ........... . ...  . ...  .    ..      ..  ...... ..
Low      Medium       High
Level of Involvement of the Mayor



22
Table 2
Total Costs of Subproject by Participating Municipality
(US$'000)*
Municipality         Initial Alocation   Actual Use of     Actual Versus
(US$1'000)         Funds         Initial Allocation
(US$'000)
Calama                          460.5            1,621.2               3.5
Cartagena                       235.1             875.7                3.7
Castro                          303.8             783.3                2.6
Cerrillos                       903.0            1,081.4               1.2
Chaniaral                       266.0            1,156.0               4.3
Colbun                          463.5             626.2                1.4
Coyhaique                       705.9             747.6                1.1
Curico                          585.9             755.9                1.3
El Bosque                       547.7             737.1                1.3
El Tabo                         397.2             540.0                1.4
Isla De Maipo                   606.5             980.0                1.6
La Cistema                      458.7             969.9                2.1
La Ligua                        445.4            1,237.6               2.8
La Pintana                      486.5             849.9                1.7
Lota                            818.2             919.4                1.1
Maipu                          1,165.7           1,216.1               1.0
Monte Patria                    398.1            1,145.8               2.9
Nueva Imperial                  545.9            1,080.9               2.0
Osoro                           528.8             737.2                1.4
Pirque                    __    233.0            1,101.8               4.7
Puerto Montt                    324.6             883.0                2.7
San Antonio                     512.5             985.1                1.9
San Fernando                    488.8            1,057.5               2.2
San Joaquin                     346.3            1,085.2               3.1
Santa Barbara                   536.7              48.0                0.1
TOTAL                        12,764.3           23,221.7               1.8
(*) Exchange Rate of $450 to US$1, and I U.F.= $14,500.



23
Table 3
National Component: Summary of National Studies' Main Findings
Study        Cost    Comple-           Main Products or Findings                        Application
US$       tion
National        130,000    1/6/96    *   Produced and field-tested a set of  *   The information system will be
Information                             indicators for monitoring the            implemented in the proposed Municipal
System on                               performance of municipalities.           Development Project (MDP).
Municipalities                      *   Developed overall design for collecting,   *   Indicators also being used in the project's
(SINIM)                                 testing for accuracy, and disseminating  monitoring, evaluation, and
the results.                             dissemination systenL
Municipal       140,000             *   After thorough analysis of the municipal   The results serve as the basis for the
Budgeting                               budgeting process, produced and field  Municipal Budgeting Improvement Program
Improvement                             tested a Municipal Budgeting Manual to   of the MDP that includes:
Program                                 assist municipalities in using their  *   Continual updating of this Manual to
budgets effectively as planning and     include legal changes and procedural
management tools.                       improvements.
*   Development of user friendly computer
software based on the Manual to help
municipalities prepare their budgets.
*   Training programs for officials at the
regional and levels.
*   Establishment of permanent budget
assistance units at the regional
government levels.
Streamlining    100,000    8/2/98    *   Developed a methodology for reducing    *   The proposed MDP would finance
Access to                               the time needed for applying for social  application of the methodology for
Social                                  assistance and for processing the        reducing time in various municipalities,
Programs                                applications at the municipal level."'    as well as continue to seek ways to
*   Recommended modifications to laws and    streamline CAS II processing at the
regulations that would reduce the        national and regional levels. Efforts to
processing time at the regional and      reduce processing time at the regional
national levels.                         and national levels would also continue.
*   Proposed reorganization of           *   Did an internal seminar with the first
responsibilities at the municipal,       reports.
regional, and national levels.       *   Have programmed a seminar with
*   Prepared a general policy study on the   participation of all of the national and
social assistance in Chile.              regional entities that are responsible for
the distribution of this assistance
(Ministries of Labor, Planning, Social
Security, and, water and sewerage
companies), universities, and
municipalities.
Project          40,000             *   Produced the basic design of the system    *   MDP will implement the system with
Monitoring,                             including definition of a set of key      emphasis on dissemination of the lessons
Evaluation                              performance indicators for the 24         of experience for the pilot and the
System                                  participating municipalities, and also    proposed projects.
generated the baseline values for these  *   National and regional seminars will be
indicators for 1996.                     organized, and case studies of best
practice, publications and a web page
will be prepared and updated.
In Chile, municipalities take the applications for social assistance (CAS II forms) and process them
to arrive at a social assistance priority score. National ministries or their regional representatives then use
the CAS II score in assigning benefits.



24
Table 3 (cont.)
National Component: Summary of National Studies' Main Findings
Study            Cost   Comple-            Main Products or Findings                        Application
US$       tion
Impact of       120,000   9/23/96   *   Diagnosed some key deficiencies in the    Used to develop the TOR for the action plan
Regional and                            very sizeable and rapidly growing system   for enhancing efficiency at the municipal and
Sector                                  of capital grants to municipalities.  regional levels. MDP would finance an action
Investments on                      *   Determined the pressing need for     plan, that would cover:
Municipal                               incentives to improve efficiency at the  *   Allocating regional investment funds
Finances                                municipal and regional levels, especially  using "efficiency" criteria and indicators
with regard to the allocation of resources  from SINIM.
from the many capital transfer funds.  *   Transformation of the legally required
Plan de Desarrollo Comunal
(PLADECO) into a strategic instrument
foT establishing investment priorities with
increased community participation.
*   Enhancement of citizen participation in
municipal management decisions,
especially in the budgetary process and
resolution of environmental problems.
*   Developing the capacity of regional
governments to provide technical
assistance to municipalities in key areas.
*   Use of municipal associations to
development project proposals and
execute them.
Improved         50,000     Not    The contract was granted to a Swedish firm,    The MDP includes a major study in this area
National/                 comple-   but was canceled due to lack of compliance on  as part of the national component.
Subnational                ted      the firm's part. Although a number of
Fiscal                              additional consultant studies on this theme
Relations                           were done using SUBDERE's own resources,
no further attempt was made to contract this
study.



25
Table 4
Financial Impact of Selected Subprojects
Municipality             Description                            Financial Impact
Curic6          *   Revising, Updating and       The municipality has identified additional revenues that
Identification of Traditional    amount to US$1.6 million -- equivalent to a 25 percent
and New Municipal Revenues  increase from all municipal revenues in 1995. These
arise from the following sources:
*   Improved collection of "patentes municipalities" -
"morosidad" and "clandestinos".
*   Building permits.
*   Improved collection of street cleaning fees.
*   Real estate taxes as a result of updating of
municipal cadastre.
*   User fees on gravel extraction.
*   User fees from extraordinary street cleaning
services.
*   User fees on transfer of services.
Curic6          *   Optimization of Management   *   US$50,000 annually from user fees on
of Municipal Assets              advertising.
*   Improved management of municipal assets.
*   US$175,000 annually from updated leases and
canon of the municipal market being negotiated.
*   US$170,000 annually from concessioning of
municipal parking.
Monte Patria    *   Modernization of equipment    *   50 percent increase of annual revenues from this
for the issuing of driving       service.
licenses and license plates
Santa Barbara    *   Improved Municipal Revenues  *   US$86,000 annually from municipal taxes
(estimated for 1999).
*   US$96,000 annually from user fees (estimated for
1999).
San Antonio     *   Revising, Updating and       *   US$176,000 annually from short-time
Identification of Traditional    management of assets (these assets were
and New Municipal Revenues       previously in a low- yield savings account).
*   US$190,000 annually from real estate taxes from
newly privatized port facility.
*   US$220,000 annually from illegal buildings now
incorporated to the cadastre.
Pirque          *   Modernization of equipment    *   US$2 million annually from increased services
for the issuing of driving       provided, representing a tenfold increase from
licenses and license plates      1992.



26
Table 5
Evolution of Municipal Revenues 1993-97
Municipal Revenues                                  MDPP Municipalities                                All Municipalities
1993     1994     1995      1996    1997         1993     1994      1995     1996      1997
Own-Source Revenues                        37.36    37.83    37.74    46.89   51.00        356.18   363.38   426.03   486.46   534.37
Municipal Fees and Taxes                20.19    22.84    20.32    25.78   29.03         210.99   230.21   260.18   300.28   337.15
Interest                              2.47      3.19     0.55     0.52    0.87         13.34    13.81     11.66    12.31     14.63
Real estate tax                       3.90      4.02     3.81     4.53    6.05         55.98    57.56    67.25     80.66    94.67
Driver licenses                       3.52      3.70     3.95     4.09    4.19         33.48    38.94    42.58    43.42    44.25
License plates                        5.12      5.72     5.65      8.32    8.80        45.28    50.22    62.57    74.02    81.88
Streetcleaningfees                    0.88      0.96     1.04      1.86    2.31        11.9      11.15    13.48    20.76    25.56
Other user fees                       2.96      3.88     3.92     4.82    4.99         34.84    41.37    43.78    48.19    51.98
Fines                                  1.34     1.37     1.41      1.65    1.82        16.47     17.16    18.85    20.93     24.20
Fondo Comun Municipal                   17.17    14.98    17.42    21.11   21.96         145.19   133.16   165.84   186.18   197.22
Transfers                                   6.10     8.83     7.79      7.34    9.02        41.01     64.45    57.35    52.18    71.39
PMB                                   2.70      3.33     3.23     3.09    3.09         23.07    23.00    25.49    29.11    26.54
PMU                                   0.38      0.51     1.08      1.18    1.57         4.63     6.72     10.06    10.82    14.26
Other transfers                       3.03      4.99     3.48      3.07    4.36        13.31    34.73    21.79     12.24    30.59
Other Revenues                              7.19     4.08     5.23      6.28    4.74        72.29    78.10    95.17    92.70    83.03
Total                                      50.64    50.74    50.75    60.51   64.76        469.49   505.93   578.54   631.34   688.79
Source: SUBDERE, 1998.



27
Table 6
Evolution of Municipal Expenditures, 1993-97
Municipal Expenditures                        MDPP Municipalities                         All Municipalities
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997      1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Personnel                              8.35   10.94   11.32   12.61   14.40     78.41   94.45   110.05  122.62  142.00
Goods and Services                    15.00   15.73   15.37   19.50   19.76    142.20  156.01   168.25  191.45  207.22
Servicestothepublic                 5.95    5.84    5.81    7.52    7.54      83.73   92.88   100.36   111.49   125.54
Administrative expenditures         9.05    9.89    9.56   11.98   12.21      58.48   63.13    67.89   79.96   81.68
Transfers (*)                          9.55   12.02   11.18   12.08   13.42     97.78   120.20   115.48  137.63   157.76
Education                           4.20    4.73    4.11    4.67    4.24      41.45   52.33   44.84   51.72   53.91
Health                              2.43    2.79    2.32    3.18    3.36      18.71   22.35   20.63   27.97    31.46
Other transfers                     2.93    4.50    4.75    4.23    5.83      37.62   45.52   50.01    57.94   72.38
Capital Investments                    9.55    8.39    9.01   12.30    8.38     96.29   93.71   102.13  142.84  132.14
Other Expenditures                     3.45    2.77    3.21    1.59    3.80      17.26   18.65   24.59   15.73   23.23
Total                                 45.89   49.85   50.10   58.08   59.76    431.94  483.02  520.51  610.27  662.36
(*) Transfers to FCM not included.
Source: SUBDERE, 1998.



28
Table 7
Project Portfolio by Type of Subproject
Type of Sub-project                   Number of   Total Cost   Avg. Cost        % of
per
Subprojects      US$       Subproject  Total Cost
General Municipal Management             218          9,925,079       45,528     42.74%
PLAFIMS and Strategic Planning         96           5,168,078       53,834     22.26%
Organizational Development             54           2,435,400       45,100     10.49%
Training                               33            937,467        28,408      4.04%
Social Programs                        18            803,567        44,643      3.46%
Service to the Public                  17            580,567        34,151      2.50%
Financial Management                      74          3,222,631        43,549     13.88%
Financial Management Systems           33           1,218,231       50,751      5.25%
Multi-purpose Cadastres                37           1,860,333       50,279      8.01%
Economic Development                   4             144,067        36,017      0.62%
Municipal Management Information         256         10,073,991        78,280     43.38%
Systems
Computing/ Information Systems         110          4,139,833       37,635     17.83%
Purchase of Equipment                  146          5,934,158       40,645     25.55%
Total                                    548         23,221,701       167,357    100.00%
Table 8
Purchases of Equipment by Type
(US$ million)
Type of Equipment                 Cost             %
(US$)       of Total Cost
Computing and Communications       4,801,859         80.92%
Audio-Visual                         532,742          8.98%
Testing for Driver Licenses          599,557         10.10%
Total                              5,934,158       100.00%



29
Table 9
Loan Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate    0.40    3.10    5.00    1.50    --    --
Actual                0.07    0.36    2.06    2.77    0.95    2.82
Actual as % of        18%    12%    41%    185%    --       --
Estimated
Date of Last Disbursement: November 23, 1998
Total Disbursements: US$9,021,363.42
Amount Cancelled: US$978,636.58



30
Table IOA
Project Costs
1    Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
A. Municipal Institutional Development
i.   General Municipal Management             1.9      1.2     3.1    5.04      4.89     9.93
Improvement
ii.  Financial Management Strengthening       5.0     . 2.1    7.1    1.64      1.58     3.22
iii. Municipal Management Information         2.1      0.7     2.8    7.51      2.56    10.07
Systems
Subtotal                                  9.1     4.0    13.0   14.19      9.03    23.22
National Institutional Development       ___ _
i.  National Information System on            0.9      0.9      1.8    0.12     0.13     0.25
Municipalities
a. Study                                                           0.06    0.07     0.13
b. Implementation                                                  0.06    0.06     0.12
ii.  Improved NationaVSub-national Fiscal     0.6      0.4      1.0    0.03     0.02     0.05
Relations
iii.  Impact of Regional and Sector Investments  0.3   0.1     0.4    0.06      0.06     0.12
on Municipal Finances
iv.  Municipal Budget Improvement             0.0      0.0     0.0    0.07      0.07     0.14
Program (*)
v.  Streamlining Access to Social Programs(*)  0.0     0.0     0.0    0.05      0.05     0.10
vi.  Evaluation PLAFIMs (*)                   0.0      0.0     0.0    0.06      0.06     0.12
vii. Program Assessment (*)                                            0.02     0.02     0.04
viii. Project Implementation Unit             0.6      0.0     0.6      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
Subtotal                                 2.4      1.4      3.8    0.41     0.41     0.82
Total Base Costs                             11.4      5.4    16.8    14.6    9.44    24.04
Physical Contingencies                    1.1     0.5      1.6      0.0     0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                       1.1     0.5      1.6      0.0     0.0      0.0
|Total Project Costs                         13.6      6.4    20.0   14.60      9.44    24.04
(*) These studies were not anticipated at Appraisal.



31
Table lOB
Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual estimate (US$M)
Source       Local    Foreign      Total    Local    Foreign      Total
costs     costs                costs      costs
IBRD               3.6        6.4       10.0       --        9.02       9.02
Government
National         9.2         --        9.2      11.60      0.42       12.02
Municipalities   0.8         --        0.8      3.00        --        3.00
Total              13.6       6.4       20.0      14.60      9.44       24.04



32
Table 11
Related Bank Loans
Loan Title              Purpose              Year of Approval             Status
Preceding operations
1. Brazil - Parand Market   Municipal development         1983                    Closed
Towns Project
(Ln2343)
2. Brazil - Parana      Municipal development             1989                    Closed
Municipal Development
Project
(Ln3100)
3. Brazil - Rio Grande do   Municipal development         1989                    Closed
Sul Municipal
Development Project
(Ln3129)
Following operations
1. Chile - Second       Municipal development             1998                    Signed
Municipal Development
Project
2. Georgia - Municipal  Municipal rehabilitation          1994                    Active
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project
(Ln2658)
3. Colombia - Municipal   Municipal development           1991                     Active
Development Project
(Ln3336)
4. Ecuador - Municipal  Municipal development             1990                    Active
Development Project
(Ln3285)



33
Table 12
Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                  Date Planned              Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                   June 17, 1993 (FEPS)
Preparation                                                                    October 15, 1992
Appraisal                                                                         July 2, 1993
Negotiations                                                                   October 12, 1993
Board Presentation                                                             December 7, 1993
Signing                                                                        January 26, 1994
Effectiveness                                                                  February 28, 1994
Midterm review (if applicable)                               --                  July 25, 1996
Project Completion                                 December 31, 1996             June 30, 1998
Loan Closing                                       December 31, 1996             June 30, 1998



34
Table 13
Status of Legal Covenants
Section   Covenant Present Original  Revised        Description of             Comments
Type   Status Deadline  Deadline           Covenant
LA 2.02(A)          NC                         Borrower to open and maintain Complied
in Dollars a special account in
the Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the
Bank
LA 2.03             NYD                        The closing date shall be  The loan to be closed June
December 31, 1996.         30, 1998
LA                  C                          Borrower declares its      Complied
3.01(A).                                       commitment to the objectives
of the Project (i) carry out Part
B of the Project with diligence
and efficiency.
LA 3.01             C                          Borrower to enter into      Complied
agreements with the
Participating Municipalities.                     l
LA 3.01             C                          Borrower to transfer to the  Complied
(b)(i)                                         Municipality the portion of the
loan and the Borrower's
counterpart funds allocated for
the municipalities.
LA                  C                          Municipalities to prepare the   Complied
3.01(b)(ii)                                    Munic. Strengthening Plan and
to carry out its subprojects.
LA 3.01 (c)         C                          Borrower shall exercise its  Complied
right under the Participating
Agreements in such a manner
as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank.
LA 3.02(a)          C                          Procurement of the goods,  Complied
works and consultants services
required by the Project shall be
governed by the provisions of
schedule 4 of the LA.
LA 3.04             C                          Borrower to maintain Special  Complied. However, the
(a)(i)                                         council including rep. Of  special council was not as
SUBDERE and the Direccion  effective as anticipated
de Presupuesto.            during appraisal
LA 3.04             C                          Borrower to maintain a PEU.  Complied
(a)(ii)



35
Table 13 (cont.)
Status of Le gal Covenants
Section   Covenant Present Original   Revised        Description of            Conments
Type   Status  Deadline  Deadline           Covenant
LA 3.04(c)         C                           Borrower to provide funds,    Complied
facilities resources, etc. for the
creation of the PEU.
LA 3.05(a)         C                           By January 31, April 30, July  Complied
31 and October 31 of each year
Borrower to prepare a progress
report.
LA                 C                           Not later than Jan.31 of each   Complied
3.05(b)                                        year the Borrower to prepare a
yearly progress report, which
should be disseminated among
the Participants after Bank
review.
LA 3.06(a)         C       12/31/95            By Dec. 31, 1995 Borrower    Complied
and Bank to undertake a review
of the progress achieved.
LA                 C                           Borrower to take remedial  Complied
3.06(b).                                       action, satisfactory to the Bank
for the efficient execution of
the Project.
LA 4.01(a)         C                           Borrower and Municipalities to Complied
maintain records and separate
accounts reflecting the
operations, resources and
expenditure related to the
Project.
LA                 C                           Borrower to have accounts    Complied
4.01(b)(i)                                     audit at the end of the fiscal
year.
LA 4.01            C                           Borrower to present to the  Complied
(b)(ii)                                        Bank audit reports no later than
6 months after the end of the
year.                                            l
LA                 C                           Borrower to furnish to the  Complied
4.01(b)(iii)                                   Bank information concerning
records and accounts etc.
LA                 C                           For all expenditures Borrower  Complied
4.01(c)(i)                                     to maintain separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures.
Table 13 (cont.)



36
Status of Legal Covenants
Section      Covenant Present  Original    Revised               Description of                   Comments
Type     Status  Deadline   Deadline                Covenant
LA                     C                                Borrower to maintain all         Complied
4.01(c)(ii)                                             records for at least one year
after the Bank has received the
audit report.
LA 4.01                C                                Borrower to enable              Complied
(c)(iii)                                                representatives of the Bank to
examine all records.
LA 4.01                C                                Borrower to ensure that the    Complied
(c)(iv)                                                 records are included in the
audit reports and that the
report includes a separate
opinion by the auditors on the
records reliability.
LA 4.02                C                                Audits to include report on the Complied
(a)                                                     compliance of the obligations
by the Borrower and the
Municipalities, incl.
Assessment of the eligibility
criteria for Subprojects, as
stated in the Project Manual.
LA                     C                                Audits to include a letter to   Complied
4.02(b)                                                 PEU identifying major
deficiencies on project
implementation and
suggestions for improvement
therein.
LA 6.01                C        04/26/94                PEU to be staffed in a manner Complied
(a)                                                     satisfactory to the Bank.
LA                     C        04/26/94                At least 5 participating        Complied
6.01(b)                                                 Agreements shall be in place.
LA 6.01(c)             CD       04/26/94                Bank to have approved TOR's Complied
for contracts in connection
w/MSP, subprojects andlor
the carrying out of Part B of
the Project estimated to cost
in the aggregate $500,000.
LA 6.01                C        04/26/94                Project Manual to be            Complied
(d)                                                     effective.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    8. = Indigenous people
beneficiaries                                   9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4. =  Counterpart funding                             11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing         allocation
agency                                         12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. =  Environmental covenants                               regulatory/institutional action



37
7. =  Involuntary resettlement                           13.  = Other
8. Present Status:
C  =  covenant complied with                            CP   =  complied with partially
CD =  complied with after delay                         NC   =  not complied with



38
Table 14
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                   Planned            Revised            Actual
Project Cycle                                                                         __   I
Weeks      US$      Weeks    US$    Weeks   US$
Preparation to Appraisal                                                  =        20    5.0
Appraisal-Board                                                                     2     28.0
Negotiations through Board Approval                    --                          1.9   35.7
Supervision                                          117.4                        40.2   304.5
Completion                                            10.7       =        =        2.2    12.4
TOTAL                                               128.1                        66.3   385.6



39
Table 15
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                    Specialized     Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of        Month/        of         Days in       Staff Skills     tation          ment         Types of
Project Cycle       Year      Persons       Field       Represented        Status       Objectives     Problems
Through Appraisal       12/92        3            16       Urban Econ.           _              _
Urban Spec.,
3/93        4            14       Mun Fin., Proc.,
7/93        6            10       Oper, Inst. Dev.
3/94        4                     Econ
Appraisal through     --/93          1            --       Urban Econ.            S              S
Board Approval
Supervision             3/94         4            4        UrEcon, UrEsp,        S               S
1/95        4                     Oper, LnstDev,
8/95         1           5        Proc, Econ, Fin
9/95         1                    Urban Spec.
5/96        2            6
10/96        2           3        Urban Spec.,
Oper. Analyst
4/97        2            6        TM, Urban                                         Project
completion_______                    Econ., Mun. Fin.                                Management
Completion            6/98           3            12       Urban Econ.,           S              S
__________________    ___.____                             Mun. Spec.,



40                             Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
El nuevo escenario generado por el proceso de democratizaci6n municipal ha
planteado nuevos problemas y desaffios a las administraciones locales: inserci6n de
nuevas autoridades y funcionarios, amrpliaci6n de los dmbitos de intervenci6n municipal
hacia el medio ambiente, el desarrollo productivo y la seguridad ciudadana, entre otros;
y un cambio hacia modalidades mds participativas de asignaci6n de recursos en las
municipalidades.
Con el objeto de buscar respuestas y soluciones a las limitaciones y problemas
detectados en la gesti6n de los municipios y, fortalecer el proceso de descentralizaci6n,
ia democratizaci6n y participaci6n de la comunidad local, la Subsecretarfa de
Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo del Ministerio del Interior y el Ministerio de Hacienda,
con el apoyo del Banco Mundial, se han propuesto llevar a cabo este Programa de
Fortalecimiento Municipal y, a partir de 6ste, desarrollar capacidades locales para
enfrentar y resolver sus problemas e incrementar su autonomrna, a fin de alcanzar una
mayor eficiencia y eficacia en la prestaci6n de servicios a sus comunidades.
El objetivo principal del programa es contribuir a mejorar la calidad, cobertura y
oportunidad en la prestaci6n de los servicios municipales; a trav6s del fortalecimiento de
su gesti6n en las dreas de:
* administraci6n presupuestaria
* recursos humanos
* inversiones y desarrollo urbano (ordenamiento territorial)
* servicios prestados a la comunidad
Los municipios entregan a sus usuarios, beneficiarios y/o clientes alrededor de 170
prestaciones (servicios, productos, atenciones, etc.) actualmente. Estas abarcan un
amplio rango de gestiones que van desde la administraci6n de los subsidios que entrega
el Estado, hasta la desratizaci6n de casas y poblaciones; se entrega el servicio del
alumbrado putblico y el de recolecci6n de basura; se entregan permisos, licencias y
certificados de diverso tipo, servicios educacionales y atenciones de salud; una parte
creciente de los servicios sobre seguridad cuidadana y tambi6n productos como:
regalos navidenos, ropa, canastas familiares, ayuda a damnificados, agua potable, etc.
La mayoria de los servicios municipales son de entrega gratuita o no existe
consenso respecto cual seria el "preclo" del servicio. Muchas veces lo que se
cobra, no tiene relacion con el valor de los recursos utilizados para producir el servicio.
La contabilidad municipal no entrega informaci6n desagregada al respecto.
Si bien en muchos casos no estd suficientemente claro el 'precio" del servicio, es
evidente que el producirlos tiene un costo en terminos de recurso humano, material y
financiero (y mas evidentemente aun, un costo de oportunidad)
La intervenci6n PROFIM pretende lograr una disminucion de los costos de



41                               Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
producci6n de los servicios municipales con lo que se lograra en primer termino liberar
recursos que podrdn ser aplicados en la producci6n de unidades adicionales de estos
mismos servicios o en la producci6n de servicios que actualmente no es posible producir
y en segundo t6rmino, lograr una rebaja en los costos que los usuados deben
desembolsar para la obtenci6n de los servicios municipales demandados.
La implementaci6n de cada proyecto (estudlo) ejecutado en un municipio
traerd consigo cambios en la forma de trabajo que apuntar6n a una racionalizaci6n de
los procesos al interior de coda departamento, produciendo con esto un mejor uso de
los recursos aplicados. Externamente, esta racionalizaci6n debiera traducirse en un
aumento de calidad de los servicios a la comunidad y un menor tiempo de espera en
recibirlos,
La metodologia a usar para evaluar el programa Profim consiste en analizar
cada tipologaa de proyectos (estudios) ejecutados dentro de la cartera de proyectos de
alg6n municipio en particular, suponer que este estudio ha sido o serd implementado en
su fase prdctica por el municipio y que esto determinard el cambio previsto y,
finalmente, determinar en primer lugar la existencia de beneficios atribuibles a la
intervenci6n para luego cuantificar aquellos beneficios en los que esto sea factible y por
ultimo, valorar a precios socioles alguno de los beneficios cuantificados.
Los beneficios a considerar en la evaluaci6n econ6mica corresponden al tiempo
ahorrado en la consecuci6n de los servicios, tanto para el municiplo como para la
comunidad cliente y en los mayores ingresos producto de la mejor fiscalizaci6n
producto del manejo mas eficiente de la informaci6n. En definitiva, se deberd
determinar si los beneficios cuantificables y valorables producen at interior del municipio
y en la comunidad cliente, ingresos monetarios o ahorros de costos suficientes para
recuperar el total de los inversiones ejecutadas y producir un excedente que justifique el
uso de los recursos en esta actividad en desmedro de otras.
La evaluacion economica permitird averiguar si el proyecto mejorard la gesti6n
de la municipalidad, en t6rminos de ahorro de costos (tanto para el municipio como
para los usuarios), y de generoci6n de mayores ingresos (los que reflejardn un aumento
del consumo de servicios municipales), que permitan pagar el costo total del proyecto y
su operaci6n.
Definici6n de los efectos del proyecto:
a) Beneficios. Estos consisten en el valor para la comunidad del mayor consumo de
servicios municipales.(se considera un beneficio porque significa la satisfacci6n de una
necesidad)
i) Mayor consumo de servicios municipoles
ii) Se verifica una menor producci6n de servicios municipales por los otros productores'2,
12 Los otros productores a que se hace menci6n corresponden a otros servicios municipoles, los que no se ven
afectados por el proyecto. En la situaci6n sin proyecto existe una oferta de servicios municipales que se
distribuye de alguna manera en servicios que pueden ser mejorados con el proyecto y otros que no. Al
implantarse el proyecto, los primeros seran ejecutados en forma m6s eficiente de manera que su ' costo de



42                               Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
lo que implica liberaci6n de recursos producffvos y por lo tanto, significa tambien un
aumento de la produccl6n de otros bienes que tambiln seran consumidos,
satisfaciendo otras necesidades.
b) Costos. Estos corresponden a lo que la sociedad pierde por efecto de utilizar los
insumos necesarios para que el proyecto produzca una canhidad adicional de servicios
municipales
i) Menor uso de recursos en la producci6n de otros bienes, 1o que implica un menor
consumo de otros bienes.
ii) Mayor produccl6n de insumos para la producci6n de servicios municipales, que
significa uso de recursos product'vos que ser6n restados de la producci6n de otros
bienes, que verdn reducido su consumo.
El costo de inversi6n estimado actual del programa alcanza los USS24.376. 844.-
los que se financian en partes iguales, de acuerdo a lo especificado en el convenio de
prestamo suscrito con el Banco Mundial, por el Estado de Chile y el mencionado banco.
La fracci6n que debe financiar el Estado de Chile incluye un 15% aproximadamente,
que corresponde al cofinanciamiento municipal.
...  .   . ...
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    . ........    ..  ......   .  ....   ..
1.- Evaluaci6n _istema Territorial La Pintana
El proyecto corresponde a un catastro de suelos, aerofotogrametria y resfltucion
digital, S.I.G y desarrollo de un sistema territorial.
Ingresos
Ingresos por mayor recaudaci6n   M$ 130.346 / anuales
Ingresos por mayor productividad  MS 76.787/ anuales
Gastos
Inversi6n                        M$ 329.587
Operaci6n                        MS 35.788 / anuales
Actualizaci6n                    MS 125.684
Para un horizonte de evaluacl6n de 4 anios y una tasa de descuento del 12% los
indicadores financieros son:
VAN = M$ 98.578               TIR = 25%
2.- Evaluacion PLAN INFORMATICO (inciuve implementaci6n) de Chafiaral
produccl6n' serb menor. Se producir6 entonces una nueva dlstiibucl6n de los prlmeros con respecto a los
segundos que es lo que aquf se denomina: 'disminuci6n de la produccd6n de otros productores'



43                             Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
El proyecto comprende el desarrollo de la ingenieria conceptual, instalaci6n de
redes, adquisicion de equipos, desarrollo de soffware y capacitaci6n a los usuarios
Ingresos
Ingresos por ahorros de horas/hombre funcionarios  UF 3.376 / anuales
Ingresos por disminuci6n de los tiempos de atenci6n a usuario UF 2.299 / anuales
Gastos
Inversi6n (S.l., plataforma y capacitaci6n)              UF 8.092
Operaci6n                                                UF 347 / anuales
Para un horizonte de evaluaci6n de 5 ahos y una tasa de descuento del 12% los
indicadores financieros son:
VAN = UF 10.705             TIR = 59%
3.- Evaluaci6n MEJORAMIENTO ATENCION A PUBLICO EN DIDECO en La Pintana
Ingresos
Disminuci6n numero de viajes de usuarios para efectuar tr6mites M$ 9.743
Disminuci6n tiempo de espera usuarios para recibir la atenci6n  M$ 2.098
Disminuci6n tiempo de atencion en obtenci6n de prestaciones    M$ 12.132
(Valores netos descontados a la tasa del 12% por un perrodo de 5 an)os)
Gastos
Inversi6n (Racionalizaci6n atenci6n de publico y S.I.)
S.I. (829 UF/3* 14.400 $/UF)                                   MS 3.979
Estudic atenci6n de pOblico US$ 31.746 * 460 $/US$)      M$ 14.603
Para un horizonte de evaluaci6n de 5 anos y una tasa de descuento del 12% los
indicadores financieros son:
VAN= UF M$ 5.391              TIR =  22 %



44                                      Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
PROGRAMA PILOTO DE FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL
MUNICIPAL
RESULTADOS DE ENCUESTA A MUNICIPALIDADES
PREGUNTAS CERRADAS
1. DESEMPENO DE LA UNIDAD EJECUTORA DEL PROGRAMA (SUBDERE)
Funciones UEP             Desempefio   Regular, A    Inadecuado        Nc         Total
Adecuado   Fortalecer
A. Promover, facilitar la                   11             2              0            1          14
participaci6n de las
municipalidades en los PLAFIM          78%           14%                         8%         100%
B. Clarificar los procesos y                 8             4              0           2           14
procedimientos del Programa
56%           28%                        16%         100%
C. Apoyo tecnico sectorial para la           5             7              1            1          14
formulaci6n, ejecuci6n y
monitoreo de los proyectos             36%           48%             8%          8%         100%
D. Apoyo tecnico al proceso de               5             7              0           2           14
planific., coordin., monitoreo,
acompaiamniento de la ejecuci6n de        36%           48%                         16%        100%
los proyectos (supervisi6n)
E. Apoyo administrativo contable al          9              3             1            1          14
proceso.
64%           20%            8%           8%         100%
F. Comunicaci6n entre el nivel              12              1             0            1          14
central del programa y los
municipios                             84%            8%                         8%         100%
Total                                       40            24              2            8          74
54%           32%            3%          11%         100%
NOTA: De las 24 municipalidades del PROFIM a las que se envio la encuesta, a la fecha 14 municipios la
respondieron.



45                                   Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
2. DESEMPENO DE LA MUNICIPALIDAD
Desempeio             Adecuado/    Regular    Insuficiente       Nc         Total
Alto
2.1. Coordinaci6n entre subproyectos       8            4             1           1          14
PROFIM logrado por el
municipio                            56%          28%            8%          8%        100%
2.2. Desempefno municipal y de sus         4            9             0           1          14
unidades especificas como
contraparte tecnica                  28%           64%                       8%        100%
2.3.a. Nivel de compromniso                5            7             1           1          14
municipal con desarrollo de
subproyectos                            36%          48%            8%          8%        100%
2.3. Nivel de dedicaci6n de los            2           10             I           1          14
funcionarios a subproyectos
16%                        8%          8%        100%
Total                                     19           30             3           4          56
34%          54%           5%          7%        100%



46                                Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
2.4. CONTRATACION DE HORAS/JORNADAS PROFESIONALES
DE APOYO TECNICO A LAS UTM
Contratacion                 Frecuencia                    Porcentaje
Sf                                                     8                          56%
No                                                     5                          36%
NC                                                     1                           8%
Total                                                  14                        100%



47                                    Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
3. LOGROS DEL PROGRAMA EN TERMINOS DEL DESARROLLO INSTITUCIONAL:
3.1. IMPACTO SEGtJN AREAS.
Impacto Seg6in Areas                Alto     Moderado       Bajo         Nc        Total
A. Dialogo entre municipios y SUBDERE                8            6           0          0          14
56%         44%                                100%
B. Dialogo entre la municipalidad y otros            4            6           4          0          14
actores (regionales, comunitarios, empresas,   28%          44%         28%                   100%
universidades)                                                 .
C. Aportar a la conciencia respecto a la             8            6           0          0          14
importancia del tema de gesti6n en el          56%          44%                               100%
municipio
Apoyar al municipo en:                             11            3           0          0          14
D.1. Modernizar la'gesti6n municipal              79%          21%                               100%
D.2. Fijar prioridades y determinar estrategias      6            8           0          0          14
44%         56%                                100%
D.3. Formaci6nlreforzamiento del trabajo en          6            6           2          0          14
equipo                                            44%          44%         12%                   100%
D.4. Coordinar acciones entre las distintas areas    5            5           4          0          14
del municipio                                     36%          36%         28%                   100%
D.5. Fortalecimiento de capacidades tecnicas         8            5           1          0          14
56%         36%          8%                    100%
D.6. Modernizar el equipamiento                     14            0           0          0          14
100%                                           100%
D.7. Mejorar la atenci6n al puiblico                 3           10           I          0          14
21%         71%          8%                    100%
D.8. Aumento de los ingresos propios                 2            4           6          2          14
permanentes                                        12%         28%         44%         16%       100%
Total                                               75           59          18          2         154
49%         38%         12%          1%        100%



48                                     Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
5. LOGROS DEL PROGRAMA EN TERMINOS DE AUMENTAR
LA CAPACIDAD TECNICA DEL MUNICIPIO
Aumento Capacidad Tecnica En:           Impacto    Impacto    Impacto          Nc         Total
Alto     Moderado       Bajo
A. Identificaci6n de problemas de gesti6n y           7           6            1          0           14
soluciones
48%         44%           8%                   100%
B. Identificaci6n y preparaci6n de proyectos         6            7            1         0           14
(Terminos t6cnicos de referencia)
44%         48%           8%                   100%
C. Capacidad de trabajo en equipo                     8           4            2          0           14
56%         30%          14%                   100%
D. Capacidad de relacionamiento con                   8           6            0          0           14
consultoras
56%         44%                                100%
E. Evaluaci6n de propuestas tecnicas y                8           5            1          0           14
productos de las consultoras
56%         36%           8%                   100%
F. Ejecuci6n de proyectos                            11            2           1          0           14
78%         14%           8%                   100%
G. Procedimientos de licitaci6n, contrataci6n y       9           3            2          0           14
ejecuci6n de proyectos de gesti6n
64%         22%          14%                   100%
H. Nuevos conocimientos adquiridos en areas de       11           2            1          0           14
trabajo y estudios
78%         14%           8%                   100%
Total                                                68          35            9                     112
61%         31%           8%                   100%



49                                   Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
5.2. NUMERO DE PERSONAS CAPACITADAS CON RECURSOS DEL PROFIM
ripo Personal               Total Personal      Personal Capacitado
Planta                                            2.312                     771
100%                    33%
Contrata                                            298                     138
100%                    46%
Honorarios                                          103                      42
100%                    41%
Total                                             2.713                     951
100%                    35%
Nota:
1. 5 encuestas no respondieron, o no entregaron la informacion completa.
2. Las cifras son referenciales, ya que queda la duda si en todos los casos se incluy6 el personal total de
educaci6n y salud.



50                                 Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
6.2. IMPACTO DE LOS PROYECTOS: TOTAL PROYECTOS TERMINADOS NOMBRADOS
Impacto                     Frecuencia                   Porcentaje
Alto                                                    98                         55%
Moderado                                                63                         35%
Bajo                                                    10                          6%
NC                                                       7                          4%
Total                                                  178                        100%



51                               Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
7. SUSTENTABILIDAD: APLICACION DE PRODUCTOS
TOTAL DE PROYECTOS TERMINADOS NOMBRADOS
Aplicaci6n De Productos           Frecuencia                  Porcentaje
Sf                                                  113                         86%
No                                                   17                         13%
NC                                                    2                          1%
Total                                               132                        100%



52                               Annex B:
Sub-Borrowers' Opinion Survey
7.2. SUSTENTABILIDAD: PROBABILIDAD DE MANTENCION FUTURA
DE CAMBIOS INTRODUCIDOS
POR LOS PROYECTOS MENCIONADOS.
Mantencion De Cambios            Frecuencia                  Porcentaje
Introducidos
Si                                                  52                         69%
No                                                   3                          4%
NC                                                   20                        27%
Total                                                75                       100%



53
The World Bank                                1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT   Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INrERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION         U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
PROGRAMA DE FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL MUNICIPAL
Prestamo 3668-CH
Misi6n de Cierre
AYUDA MEMORIA
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial integrada por Miguel A. Mercado (Task Manager), David Vetter
(Economista Urbano) y Eleoterio Codato (Especialista en Finanzas Municipales) visit6 Chile
con el prop6sito de Ilevar a cabo la rnisi6n de cierre del Proyecto Piloto de Desarrollo
Municipal (PROFJM). La Misi6n se reuni6  con el Subsecretario de Desarrollo Regional, Sr.
Marcelo Schillinig; coIn el Director de Presupuesto Nacional, Sr. Joaquin Vial; con el Jefe de
Sector de Inversi6n y Credito PHiblico, Sr. Gabriel Guerrero; con el Jefe de la Divisi6n de
Municipalidades. Sr. Julio Ruiz; y con el Jefe del PROFIM, Sr. Drago Domancic. La Misi6n
visit6 las municipalidades de Calama y San Antonio en las que se entrevist6 con el Sr. Edwin
Rowe. alcalde de Calama; y la Sra. Lucia Menares alcaldesa de la municipalidad de  San
Antonio.
Introducci6n
Ante el inminente cierre del PROFIM  el Banco, conjultamente con la SUBDERE, se han
envuelto en el proceso de evaluaci6n del prograina. Esta evaluacion pernitira medir el impacto
del programa a la vez que tambien permitira recoger las experiencias de ejecuci6n para
incorporarlas al Segundo Proyecto de Desarrollo Municipal solicitado al Banco por el Gobierno
Chileno. En este documento se recogen las principales observaciones y conclusiones de la
Misi6n. En el Informe de Cierre que sera elaborado por el Banco y la SUBDERE, se
profundizaran los temas aqui tratados.
El PROFIM ten ia dos objetivos principales: a) aumentar la capacidad institucional y t6cnica de
las municipalidades participantes para llevar a cabo sus responsabilidades legales y; b) asistir al
Gobierno Nacional a alcanzar sus metas macroecon6micas al nivel municipal. El monto total
del programa, seg6in el Convenio de Pr6stamo, fue de US$20,01 millones (m) de los cuales el
Banco financio US$10,0 m . El PROFIM incluy6 dos componentes: a) Fortalecimiento
Institucional Municipal (COFIM) (US$15.5 m) y b) Fortalecimiento Institucional Nacional
(COFIN) (US$4.5 m).
Un analisis preliminar de la ejecuci6n del PROFIM nos perinite concluir que el programna
obtuvo sus olbjetivos y su impacto fue satisfactorio con respecto al COFIN y altamente
satisfactorio con respecto al COFIM. En primer lugar como proyecto piloto, el PROFIM, ha
El monto total del PROFIM ascendio a US$24,5 millopes, ya que el Gobierno Chilenio decidio incrementar la
contrapartida nacional.
RCA 248423. IL) WUI 64145 [JU FAX (202) 477-6391



Ayuda Memnoria                        54                              04/06/98
permitido adquirir las experiencias necesarias para lanzar una segunda operaci6n, incorporando
esas experiencias en el disenio del segundo proyecto. En segundo lugar el COFIN permiti6 al
gobierno Nacional por medio de los estudios financiados elaborar y/o desarrollar politicas para
cumplir con las metas nacionales para los gobiernos subnacionales, por ejemplo: el estudio de
las finanzas municipales permiti6 tener un mejor conocimiento a nivel central de la realidad
municipal. En tercer lugar el PROFIM lia sido mas exitoso en fortalecer la capacidad de gesti6n
2
de las 24 municipalidades participantes en la muestra . En particular se observa que el PROFIM
contribuy6 a mejorar la eficiencia y eficacia en la gesti6n municipal en estas areas:
administraci6n de recursos liumanos. administraci6n financiera (ingresos y egresos); desarrollo
organizacional y administraci6n; comunicacion con los ciudadanos y participacion comunitaria
en los procesos de decisi6n y los planes de inversi6n; en la elaboraci6n de estudios de pre-
inversi6n, desarrollo de planes estrategicos para las areas de salud y educaci6n. Finalmente, el
PROFIM contribuy6 al fortalecimniento institucional de las municipalidades como resultado de
la participaci6n de los funcionarios municipales en los procesos lievados a cabo, al ser estos la
contraparte municipal de las consultoras
Ejecuci6n de Proyecto
En el PROFIM  se identificaron 536 subproyectos equivalentes a un monto aproximado de
US$24,5 millones (m), de los cuales 301 subproyectos (US$10,1 imillones) estan terninados;
139 en estado de licitaci6n o ejecuci6n (US$7,6 millones) y 96 (US$6.7 millones) en
programacion. De acuerdo a este desglose aproximadamente un 24% de la cartera total de
subproyectos quedlara fuera de la fecha de cierre del proyecto (30.06.98), Io que implicaria la
cancelaci6n de US$2.0 m del monto total del aporte Banco del proyecto (US$10,0 m). Esta
cancelaci6n es producto del cierre dcl proyecto, donde hay subproyectos que no alcanzaron a ser
presentados al Banico, dado que aun estAn en etapa de definici6n con el municipio.
Esta situaci6n es por efecto de la deimora en el arranque de la ejecuci6n del proyecto en el
periodo 1994 - 1996 seg9n da cuenta informe de evaluaci6n interinedia de junio de 1996, en la
que se explicita los factores que retardaron la etapa de maduraci6n a nivel municipal en la
implementaci6n del proceso de cambio. Cabe hacer notar que al 30.04.96, la cartera de
subproyectos estaba constituida por 51 suproyectos terminados incluyendo los PLAFIMs, 49 en
ejecuci6n o licitaci6n y 170 subproyectos en programaci6n, totalizando solo US$ 11,0 m en total.
Por uiltimo, se debe aclarar que dentro del monto a cancelar, estan los subproyectos que
quedaron en programaci6n y un porcentaje importante de los contratos de los subproyectos en
ejecuci6n, correspondiente a actividades que se efectuaran con posterioridad al cierre.  La
Misi6n fue inforniada del compromiso asumido por el Gobierno de Chile de completar la
ejecuci6n de los subproyectos cuya ejecuci6n exceda la fecha de cierre del prestamo.
La secci6n que sigue resume el avance del Programa por componente: a) Desarrollo
Institucional Municipal (COFIM) y b) Estudios Nacionales (COFIN).
Originalmente la muestra estuvo constituida por veint5cinco municipalidades, pero en 1996 Maipu decidi6
abandonar el PROFIM.



Ayuda Memoria                        55                              04/06/98
Componente Fortalecimiento Institucional Nacional
En el marco del COFIN se financiaron seis estudios que se consignan en el Anexo A. El monto
total de estos estudios ascendi6 a US $ 755.077.-. El estudio del Analisis de las Altemativas de
Politicas de Transferencia de Recursos a la Administraci6n Municipal, por problemas con la
empresa consultora que inici6 el estudio fue cancelado. La Misi6n sugiri6 que se analice la
pertinencia de retomar la ejecuci6n de este estudio en el marco del Segundo Programa de
Desarrollo Municipal. Por otra parte se agregaron estudios tales como: a) estudio de
Planificacion Presupuestaria Municipal (US$127,000), que busca principalmente unificar la
metodologia y capacitaci6n en esta area a nivel municipal con lo cual se hace mucho mas
eficiente el proceso de planificaci6n presupuestaria y el seguimiento posterior, este se encuentra
listo para su ejecuci6n a nivel municipal; b) estudio de Racionalizaci6n de Tramites Publicos
para la Obtenci6n de Beneficios Sociales a traves de las Municipalidades (US$109,000) el cual
revis6 todos los aspectos referentes a la racionalizaci6n y estudio de procedimientos necesarios
para la obtenci6n de beneficios sociales a nivel municipal, obteniendo la propuesta de cambios
significativos a nivel tanto de procedimientos como legales, actualmente se esta organizando un
taller de analisis de las propuestas con el fin de concensuar los cambios, con lo cual se espera
poder implementar los cambios; finalmente, se incluy6 en este componente c) estudio de
Seguimienito y Metodologia de Evaluaci6n de Impacto del PROFIM  (US$35,000) el cual ya
desarroll6 la metodologia de seguimiento e indicadores de gesti6n y entra en una segunda fase
que incluye principalinente la ejecuci6n de la metodologia de evaluaci6n de impacto del
programa en cada uno de los municipios parte del PROFIM.
Cabe sefialar que en su mayoria los presupuestos asignados a estos estudios fueron
relativamente bajos, muy por debajo de lo estimado en el Informe de Evaluaci6n de Prestamo
(Staff Appraisal Report), lo que result6 en que no participaran Consultoras Internacionales en la
elaboraci6n de los esttudios.
Los estudios financiados en el marco de este componente cubrieron varios de los problemas
identificados en el estudio elaborado por el Banco "Chile: Finanzas de los Gobiemos
Subnacionales". Un analisis preliminar de los estudios financiados en el marco de este
componente revela que estos han producido informaci6n de calidad satisfactoria. Ademas, la
informacion generada por estos estudios'se esta tomando en consideraci6n en la preparaci6n del
Segtndo Proyecto de Desarrollo Municipal. Sini embargo, la Misi6n sugiri6 se haga un esfuerzo
mayor en la diseminaci6n de los resultados de estos estudios
Componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional Municipal
En el marco del COFIM se cubrieron tres areas principales (ver Anexo B): 1) Mejoramiento de
la Administracion Municipal, 2) Fortalecimiento de la Administraci6n Financiera y 3) Sistemas
de Informaci6n de Administraci6n Municipal, el estado actual es el siguiente:



Ayuda Memoria                        56                             04/06/98
Mejorainiento dle la Administraci6n Municipal
En este subcomponente se financiaron estudios en  25 municipalidades en las areas de a)
Planificaci6n estrategica (incluye PLAFIM), b) Desarrollo Organizacional, c) Programas de
Capacitaci6n; d) Programas con Enfoque Sociales, e) Atenci6n al Pub lico y Comercializaci6n, 0
Plan regulador y orden territorial y g) Fomento Productivo.
Fortalecimicnto de la Administraci6n Financiera
En este subcomponente se financiaron subproyectos para revisar, mejorar y racionalizar el tema
de ingresos municipales directamente, aunque hay efectos cruzados con estudios de otros
subcomponentes como por ejemplo los estudios de desarrollo de sistemas de informaci6n
financiera que contribuyen directamente al mejor manejo, control y fiscalizaci6n de los recursos
financieros, o como por ejemplo, el desarrollo de los planes reguladores que permiten al
municipio optilnizar la generaci6n de recursos provenientes de los recursos de la comuna.
Sistemas de Informnaci6n de Adminiistraci6n Municipal
En este subcomponente se incluyo tanto la adquisici6n del equipamiento como el disefno,
desarrollo, ejecuci6n y capacitaci6n de los diferentes sistemnas de administracl6n y finanzas a
nivel municipal. Este componente tuvo una incidencia en la gesti6n municipal a traves de la
sistematizaci6n y optimizaci6n en el uso de la informaci6n. La Mision pudo evidenciar que el
estado general de los municipios, en t6rminos informaticos era deficitaria y practicamente
inexistente, por lo que el disefio de sistemas de informaci6n ha significado en la mayoria de los
casos aplicar procesos de reingenieria para optimizar la gesti6n.
IMPACTO DEL PROFIM
Como producto de los resultados de las actividades financiadas en el PROFIM es iinportante
senalar algunos impactos en el corto y mnediano plazo, los que esperamos seran reforzados en el
largo plazo
Fortalecimiento Institucional
Es claro que la mayor planificaci6n producto de: i) los Planes de Desarrollo Comunal y Planes
de Desarrollo Econ6mico de las comuinas basados en los estudios de ordenamiento territorial,
lian dado paso a una nueva forma de administrar el municipio, basada en la determinaci6n de
una misi6n y objetivos claros que se reflejan en metas y planes de acci6n para el trabajo del
municipio. Esto ha sido un salto cualitativo importante para asegurar una mejor gesti6n y uso de
los recursos a nivel municipal.
Ademas este cambio estrategico se ha visto reforzado por un cambio organizacional y
fortalecimiento del area de recursos humanos a traves de reorganizaciones institucionales donde
se han definido claramente las funciones y objetivos de cada area dentro de la organizaci6n.
Esto paralelamente a un plan de capacitaci6n, tanto en las areas de comunicaci6n, trabajo en
equipo y liderazgo, como en las areas tematicas' propias de cada tarea.



Ayuda Memoria                        57                             04/06/98
Todo este conjunto de subproyectos lograron un cambio real en la forma de trabajar a nivel
municipal, en la "cultura de trabajo" que ademas ha contado con el apoyo y consenso politico
dentro del municipio.
Consenso y apoyo politico
Dada la forima de tomar decisiones dentro del municipio, cada subproyecto necesito ser
aprobado por el alcalde y mas tarde por el concejo municipal para su ejecuci6n. Esto demuestra
la voluntad politica y entre comillas tecnica que debia existir para promover los cambios, lo cual
evidencia que el cambio fue aprobado antes de ser implementado y no viceversa
El lhecho de que el Alcalde y el Concejo esten de acuerdo en los cambios denota una discusi6n y
analisis en profundidad de cada alternativa propuesta, lo que sumado en el tiempo conlleva a un
cambio en el enfoque de las prioridades del municipio. A su vez todos los subproyectos de
Planificaci6n Estrategica lian sido abordados con una metodologia participativa que acentua aun
mas este enfoque.
Duranite las visitas realizadas en las Dmisiones de supervisi6n se lha podido corroborar la
experiencia observada' en otros paises donde el Banco esta financianido proyectos similares:
progrmaias qtie cuentaii coni el apoyo de las autoridades guberlznainenttales tanto a inivel
,iacional coimo sutbnacional tienten u na probabilidad alta de jxito. En el marco del PPOFIM,
aquellas municipalidades donde el programa cont6 con el apoyo incondicional de los alcaldes
fue nias exitoso, por ejemplo Calama, San Antonio, La Ligua.
Aumnento en las capacidades del Recurso Humano
Todas estas redefiniciones hani requerido de planes de capacitaci6n tanto en areas tecnicas como
en habilidades interpersonales que apoyai los cambios, produciendo de esta forma una mayor
capacidad y autonomia de trabajo en los equipos humanos del municipio, lo cual claramente es
la base de la sustentabilidad de los cambios a nivel organizacional introducidos.
Mejoras en la Adniinistracion Financiera
Los subproyectos financiados en el area de administracion financiera han contribuido
significativamente al uso mas eficiente de los fondos administrados por los municipios. Por
ejemplo, varios muniicipios han introducido metodos de planificaci6n, asignaci6n de prioridades
en el diserio de los presupuestos municipales. Varios municipios en el marco de los planes
estrategicos han fijado metas para reducir los deficit operaciones, por ejemplo Calauna, mnientras-
otros estan revisando sus practicas o modalidad de adquisici6n lo que ha resultado en ahorros
sustanciales, por ejemplo la municipalidad de San Antonio pudo adquirir tres ambulancias con
los fondos provenientes de dichos ahorro.



Aytida Memoria                       58                              04/06/98
Sustentabilidad del Cambio
En primer lugar es importante mencionar que el Gobierno Chile esta considerando la posibilidad
de convertir el PROFIM un programa permanente, para asistir a las municipalidades en todo lo
que respecta a la modernizaci6n de los gobiernos subnacionales. Esto le permitiria a los
munlicipios que participaron en el programa continuar con acceso a asistencia tecnica por un
tienipo adicional, a la vez que le penritiria a otras municipalidades iniciar el proceso de cambio.
Las nuevas metodologias de trabajo introducidas en las municipalidades podriamos decir tienen
caracteristicas "irreversibles", ya que son cambios de fondo en la cultura municipal. Por
ejenmplo, la tecnologia introducida en los municipios, maquinas de fax, computadoras, acceso al
internet etc., muy dificilmente las municipalidades volverdn a una etapa sin tecnologia. Por otro
lado, los cambios en terminos de gesti6n administrativa quedaron muy internalizados en las
niunicipalidades. Por ejemplo, los funcionarios municipales ahora hablan de propuestas de
proyecto y Terminos Tecnicos de Referencia, racionalizaci6n de los recursos - cuando antes solo
se hablaba de necesidades de financiamiento. La participaci6n ciudadana ya forma parte
integral de los procesos de decisi6n de muclias de las municipalidades participantes en el
PROFIM. El hecho de que un nLmero significativo de imunicipalidades quieren incorporarse al
prograina es una buena indicaci6n que el proceso iniciado en el marco del proyecto tiene una
probabilidad alta de sustentabilidad. En otras palabras las runnicipalidades quieren subirse al
tren de la modernizaci6n de los gobiernos subnacionales.
La misi6n agradece la colaboraci6n y atenciones por parte de los funcionarios del gobiemno. En
particular la misi6n agradece las atenciones recibidas por los alcaldes de las municipalidades de
Calama y San Antonio.
Sr. Marcelo Schilling
Subsecretario de Desarrollo Regional y               de Presupuesto
Administrativo                          Mi   terio de Hacienda
Ministerio de Interior
co Mundial



ANEXO A
NATIONAL COMPONENT: SUMMARY OF MAIN RESULTS OR FINDINGS FROM SUBCOMPONENTS AND THEIR APPLICATION
Study        Cost    Comple-         Main Products or Findings                                    Application
us$      . tion
Date
National       122,000   1/6/96  Produced and field-tested a set of        The information system will be implemented in the proposed
Information                       indicators for monitoring the performance   Municipal Development Project (MDP).
System on                        of municipalities. Developed overall      Indicators also being used in the project monitoring, evaluation, and
Municipaliti                      design for collecting, testing for accuracy,   dissemination system.
es                               and disseminating the results.
Municipal      128,000           After thorough analysis of the municipal    The results serve as the basis for the Municipal Budgeting
Budgeting                         budgeting process, produced and field    Improvement Program of the MDP that includes:
Improvemen                        tested a Mutnicipal Budgeting Manual to    --continual updating of this Manual to include legal changes and
t Program                         assist municipalities in using their budgets  procedural improvements.
effectively as planning and management    --development of user friendly computer software based on the
tools.                                   Manual to help municipalities prepare their budgets.
--training programs for officials at the regional and levels.
--establishment of permanent budget assistance units at the regional
govemment levels.
Streamlining    109,000  8/2/98  Developed a methodology for reducing the  The proposed MDP would finance application of the methodology
Access to                        time needed for applying for social       for reducing time in various municipalities, as well as continue to
Social                           assistance and for processing the         seek ways to streamline CAS II processing at the national and
Programs                         applications at the municipal level.3     regional levels. Efforts to reduce processing time at the regional and
Reconmnended modifications to laws and    national levels would also continue.
regulations that would reduce the        Did an intemal seminar with the first reports.
processing time at the regional and national Have programmed a seminar with participation of all of the national
levels.                                  and regional entities that are responsible for the distribution of this
Proposed reorganization of responsibilities  assistance (Ministries of Labor, Planning, Social Security, and,
at the municipal, regional, and national  water and sewerage companies), universities, and municipalities.
levels.
Prepared a general policy study on the
social assistance in Chile
Project         35,000 __         Produced the basic design of the system  MDP will implement the system with emphasis on dissemination of the lessons of
3 In Chile, municipalities take the applications for social assistance (CAS 11 forms) and process them to arrive at a social assistance priority score. National ministries or their regional
representatives then use the CAS 11 score in assigning benefits.
RCA 248423. mD WUJ 64145 m FAX (202) 477-6391



Ayuda Memoria                          -8-                                04/06/98
monitoring,                       including definition of a set of key       experience for the pilot and the proposed projects. National and regional seminars
evaluation                        performance indicators for the 24          will provide forums to discuss what worked and what didn't. Case studies of best
system                            participating municipalities, and also     practice will be prepared. Publications will be prepared. A web page will also be
generated the baseline values for these   estabiished and continually updated.
indicators for 1996.
Impact of       122,000  9/23/96  Diagnosed some key deficiencies in the     Used to develop the TOR for the action plan for enhancing
Regional                          very sizeable and rapidly growing system   efficiency at the municipal and regional levels. MDB would finance
and Sector                        of capital grants to municipalities.,      an action plan, that would cover:
Investments                       Determined the pressing need for           --allocating part regional investment funds using "'efficiency"
on                                incentives to improve efficiency at the    criteria and indicators from SINIM. Put efficiency criteria ISAR
Municipal                         municipal and regional levels, especially    and also in CP.
Finances                          with regard to the allocation of resources    --Transformation of the legally required Plan de Desarrollo Comunal
from the many capital transfer. ftinds (e.g.,  (PLADECO) into a strategic instrument for establishing investment
FNDR, PMU, PMB, etc.                      priorities with increased community participation.
--Enhancement of citizen participation in municipal management
decisions, especially in the budgetary process and resolution of
environmental problems.
--Developing the capacity of regional governments to provide
technical assistance to municipalities in key areas.
--Use of municipal associations to development project proposals
and execute them.
Improved        49,000    Not   The contract was granted to a Swedish        The MDP includes a major study in this area as part of the
National/                comple. firm, but was canceled due to lack of
Subnational                -ted    compliance on the firm's part. Although
Fiscal                            number of additional consultant studies on
Relations                         this theme were done using SUBDERE's
own resources, no further attempt was
made to contract this study.



Ayuda Memoria                       -9-                             04/06/98
ANEXO B
Tipo de      Nuimero    Monto               Diagn6stico                          Resultado
subproyecto       de        total
municipios
Planificaci6n      24      US$5,Om                                   a) Se han establecido Planes de Desarrollo  _
estrategica                           a) Problemas de conducci6n y     Comunal, Planes Estrategicos y sectoriales
liderazgo entre las autoridades    en educaci6n y salud
de los municipios           b) Resultado de los Planes de Desarrollo
b) Se carece de planes de        Comunal han surgido subproyectos de
estrategicos de acci6n y      fortalecimiento en areas especificas como
desarrollo                    turismo, social, atenci6n a ptublico e imagen
c) No se tiene claro el enfoque  del mtnicipio
estrategico basado en misi6n,  c) Se incorporaron disenios de sistemas de
metas y planes de acci6n del  control de gesti6n en las diferentes areas del
municipio                     mullicipio
d) Se logr6 estabiecer la misi6n-visi6n de la
comuna, sus objetivos y metas de desarrollo
e) En el ambito presupuestario se cambio de
una planificaci6n anual basada en la
disponibilidad presupuestaria a una visi6n y
programaci6n de caracter estrategico
0 Visi6n integradora de la comunidad, para
hacerla participe de los diferentes procesos
Desarrollo          24     US$5,Om   a,,uLos municipios presentan    a.z _i Se obtuvieron disenios o redisefios de la
Organizacional                           una estructura interna rigida,  estnictura organica en concordancia con la
y Recursos                               poco adaptada a sus           rnisi6n- objetivo del municipio
Humanos                                  requerimientos, no cuentan    b;-,-.Fortalecimiento del clima organizacional a
con una clara descripci6n de  traves de capacitaci6n en trabajo de equipo y
Incluyen:                                responsabilidades y fLinciones,   liderazgo
y no aplican un enfoque de    cLHL Revisi6n y fortalecimiento de los procesos y
.  Capacitaci6n                          administraci6n dirigido a la  procedimientos del mnunicipio en diferentes
  proyectos                             gesti6n                       areas
sociales                           booNo existen canales
lo  atenci6n al                          comunicaci6n formal para una



Ayuda Memoria                         -10-                              04/06/98
publico                                mejor coordinaci6n
fomento                              c3 0JFalta de mecanismos de
productivo                             control de gesti6n en las
diferentes areas de la
municipalidad
dil o deficiencias de gestion de
recursos en las areas de salud,
educaci6n y servicios en
general
coGexiste duplicidad de
procedimientos, burocracia,
descoordinaci6n,
.______________   __________  sobredotaciones, etc.
Ordenamiento  22            US$3,Om    aoolnexistencia u obsolescencia  ailu-Estos subproyectos han entregado
Territorial y                              de Planes Reguladores; por      herramientas fundamentales para la
proyectos de                               esencia los planes reguladores    planificaci6n urbana, en directa relaci6n con
inversiones-                               son el instrumento operativo    los planes de desarrollo de la comumna
del proceso de planificaci6n    billroliHan generado la base para determinar
urbana, lo que ayuda a la       proyectos de inversi6n de la comuna
definici6n marco de las      cooHan ayudado a generar nuevos ingresos por
politicas de desarrollo regional   el lado de Catastro fiscal.
y coinunal, para definir
estrategias econ6micas,
sociales y politicas
bOiotro problema subsistente es
el no ordenamiento de la alta
cantidad de iniciativas y
proyectos de inversi6n
existentes en la comuna
cinoLa no relaci6n entre los
planes de inversion y los
objetivos de corto, mediano y
largo plazo que se encuentran
en el Plan de Desarrollo
Comunal
Finanzas y      20       -US$1,5m    dtotLa planificacion               dOoDiseiio de procesos optimizados de



Ayuda Memoria                        -II -                            04/06/98
Administraci6n                           presupuestaria no se realiza    adquisiciones, recaudaciones, contables y
Presupuestaria                           pensando en la funci6n          tributarios
objetivo del municipio sino    ecnEstudios de aumento de ingresos propios y
que es una mera actualizaci6n  disenlo de politicas financieras con el objeto
del presupuesto del periodo    de determinar y fortalecer las fuentes de
anterior                      ingresos propios, carnbiando de una actitud
edllJno existen herramientas de  pasiva a una activa en buisqueda de una
analisis financiero            menor dependencia econ6mica de los
f E,No existen sistemas de       recursos fiscales
control de gasto             icizRevisi6n de costos y gastos, principalmente
gooNo existen revisiones de las  para establecer prioridades
fuentes de ingresos propios
Informiitica    24         US$10,Om  hOuCarencia de sistemas de       Desarrollo de Plan Informatico que incluy6
informaci6n integral, lo que    compra de equipamiento, diseino, desarrollo e
genera centros aislados de  Implementaci6n de sistemas de informaci6n y
acopio y manejo limitado de la ademas la homologaci6n y estandarizaci6n de   | 
informaci6n                 recursos informaticos existentes. Especial
i_ -En aeneral los sistemas    aporte de la capacitaci6n integrada a los
aislados no se encuentran   funcionarios municipales en las diferentes
funcionando y el personal   herramientas desarrolladas.
involucrado no capacitado
jiZ EEquipamiento obsoleto o
incompatible con los sistemas,
ademas de no estandarizado.
Miguel Mercado-Diaz
C:\MIGUEL\MIS598\AYMIS598.DOC
Junc 3, 1998 5:39 PM



MAP SECTION



IBRD 25555
D
"rB
<
N
S o u t
9/
,-7 0 L-                                                                                                                                                         t r I c  a
(D
It
COIHAI
F
SAlql IAG
46'-
M
DE GA,IOGI
AIIN ROADS
RAIIWAYI
"A                                                                                                                                                          LA                     CONTOURS (1000. -_I)
RIVERS
SALINE LAKES
ICE FIELDS
3e
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
Qr,    PORTS, THROUGH-PUT
r                                                                                                                                                                                                                EXCEEDING 300,000 TONS
PER YEAR
NATIONAL C
0     REGION C
PROVINCE
REGION B
t V   REGION N
38'
INTERNATI
26'
U-i
40'
LU
T
F-19
28'
V."
42'-
-d -y
30'
lh z",               _y
7p'                                      1 44.
FEiZA        94



