Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12198-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHILE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 5, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12198 CH
Type: SAR
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has  resticted distribution and may be used by recipients oldy in jte performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Exchange &tW
(Year-Average, Observed)
1987 Ch$219.41 = US$1
1988 Ch$245.01 = US$1
1989 Ch$266.95 = US$1
1990 Ch$304.90 = US$1
1991 Ch$349.22 = US$1
1992 Ch$362.60   US$1
VVEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
FNDR         -     Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
FY           =     Fiscal Year
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
MISP         =     Municipal Institutional Strengthening Plan
PEU          =     Project Executing Unit
PM           -     Project Manual
PPU          =     Project Preparation Unit
SOE          =     Statement of Expenditures
SUBDERE   =        Ministry of Interior's Subsecretariat of Regional
Development and Administration (Subsecretar(a de
Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CONTEN'
LOAN AND PROJECT SVMMARY  ....................... Hi
1.   H S          R   .................................
The Subnational Public Sector and Its Reform             1. 
Sector Strtegy                                                           3
Rationale for Bankl Involvement .                  .                     4
Lessons Leamed from Other Bank Inmvlvement                . .            5
2. THE PROJECT   .........                  .......................  6
Project Ongn  ..........              ......................   6
Project Objectives  ........            .....................  6
Project Components  .......              .....................   6
Selection of Muip        es........................   8
Project Costs ................................  8
Financing Plan   .........            ......................  9
3. PROJECr INIPLEMENTATION ...................... 11
Implementation Arrngements  ...................... 11
Status of Project Preparation and Inplementation Schedule         .... 12
Procurement ...................                     ............. 13
Disbursement and Accounts            ............... iS
Audits ..................................... 16
Reporting and Monitoring ...........               .............. 16
4. PROJECT JUSTIFCATION AND RISKS ................ 18
Project Benefits ...........            .................... 18
Progmm Objecive Cate ries  ......                ................ 18
Risks and Safeguards ........             .................... 18
S. AGREEMENS REACHED  .......                        .................. 20
General Conditions .........             .................... 20
Conditions of Effectiveness .......            ................. 21
ANNEXES  ...................................... 22
A. SELECrION OF THE MUNICIPALMES AND THEIR
CHARACIERISTICS  ........                  ................... 23
I/ This report is based on the findings of an araisa mIissOn that visited Chile between
Juan 22 and July 2, 1993. Mission members included David Vetter (task menager, LA41E),
Mario Rothschild (LA4IE), and Susannh Hoplans (coundt_). Mts Anderan, Robert
Asfrd, and Roberto Samayoa (consultant financed via Swedish bilateral asisac)
participated in the mission dwing different periods. Omer Hayat provided assise in the
prduction of the tables. Superving Manage  icluded Aonso Sanchez (Chief, LA4DE)
and Ping-Cheung Loh (Director, LA4). The peer revier was WiWliam DiZlinger
(TWURD).
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipirats only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclic-'eI .vi* aout World Bank authorization.



ii
R LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE FROM PREVIOUS BANK
PROJECTS ...................................... 30
C  PROJECr DESCRIPTON  .......................... 33
a  PROJECTSUPERVISION AND MONnDR DNG  .....              ......... 38
B. ORGANIZATION OFPROJECreMPLEMENTAINON ......... 40
F. MONfltRINNGtNDEVALUA1ONSTRAMIUY ... .. . . ..... 43
G. PROJECrALA.AL                  ................................ 48
H. ESTIMATEDSCHEDULE OFDISBURSEMENTS ........... 50
I. SELECTED DOCUMINTSINPROJECTFILE  .. ........... 51
J. MAP ........................................ 6
Tables In Ibt
hMble 2.1    Poject Cost Summary    ......................  9
Table 2.2    Financing Plan ...........................  10
Mible 3.1    Piowcureient Anangements  ................... 13
ibble 3.2    Edti,mated Disbursements .....................15
Tables and Charts In Annexes
Ilble A. 1    Number and Population of Municipalities By Pbpultion
Range . ............... 27
ibble A.2    Breakdown of Pilot Municipalities By Pbpulaion ...... 28
Table A.3    Chamcteristics of Pilot Municipalities By Region ...... 29
'Ible D. 1    Supervision PHan ..........................  39
Cbart E.1    Ornizaion of the Mnistry of Intrior ....     ........ 42
lkbleH.l  DisburmentSchedule...                  .                 50



CHLE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPrM PILOT PROJECT
WAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Bormower: Republic of Chile
Agencies:   Ministry of hiterior and Municipalities
Amount: UTS$10.0 million, equivalent
Tenus:      Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of gace, with
intrest at the Bankes sandard viable rate and commintment
charges.
Prqjec
Objectives:   he Tpecific objectives of this pilot project iwuld be to:
(a) Increase the insfitutional and technical capacity of
MUcipai gav=Mn^.ents to assume their greater
rsonsibilities by:
(i)   Enhancing their capacity to generte own-source
renues, including user fees.
(ii)   lreasing their instdtutional capacity to plan,
program, finance, execute, operate, maintain,
and monitor eapenditure progams that are
economica1ly and financially sound.
(b)   Impove the naonal gent's capacity to attain its
main macroeconomic goals at the municipal level,
especally through the design of incentives for increased
efficiency and fiscal discipline in the national/municipal
trasfer system.
Project
Descrption: The pilot project wuld consist of the following components:
(a)   Municipal  utional Development Component.
This component would include the following
subcomponents for the municipalities in the pilot
ptject:
(i)   General M-icipa Manua=eetmreet
including the prepation of Municipal
Institutional Strengthening Plans (MISPs) and



iv
the improvement of the overall organizational
structure, service to the public, municipal
planning procedures including human-resources
planning and sector-specific planning, pre-
Investment studies, and managenient and
implementation of physical investment projects.
(ii)   Financil Mangemet S=gfhtning, including
the improvement of financial planning and
record-keeping, revenue collection, expense
control, and cost recovery staties, as well as
the design and implementation of multi-purpose
property cadastres.
(iii)  M11 icament InPormnation Sy mst ,
including the establishment of management-
oriented and sector-specific information systems.
(b)   National IstutIonal Development Component,
including the following subcomponents:
«i)   National Infnation Syste  for MncEaiis
including the upgading of the existing national
information systm, the identification of
municipal management peformance indicators to
be incorporated into a municipal rating system,
and the development of a project evaluation and
monitoring system.
(ii)   Analysis of Policy Alternatives for Improvln
NationalSubn tional Fiscal Relations, including
the analysis of policy alternatives for improving
national, regional, and municipal fiscal relations,
mainly in the areas of the resource transfer
ytem to municipalities, municipal management
performance, and municipal multi-year financial
plnning.
(iii)  Evaluation of the Impact of RegionaL and Sect
ItmntM on Municipal  inancs, including
analysis of the impact of municipal investments
in the areas of health, education, housing, and
infrastructure on other current expenditures, and
of the need for coordinaton of these investments
to prevent negative effects on local development.
(iv)  Proec Executing Unit, including mement
and operation of the project.



V
Training of municipal staff, including the dmelopment of
courses and seminars, is included in the epective components
and subcomponents of the MISPs
Benefits:    The pilot project would conuibute to tlhe Government's overall
maacoecouomic efficiency, equity, and stability goals. It
would improve the efficiency of the municipal public sector.
It would also increase intersonal equity by augmenting
administrative efficiency in the provision of health and
education services and in the local administation of national
poverty programs. Finally, the project would contribute
directly to the maintenance of fiscal discipline in the
consolidated public sector by helping to establish more
adequate incentives for imprved fiscal perfornunce at the
municipal level, as well as by increasing the capacity of
municpailities to respond effectively to these incentives.
RlsI6 and
Safeguards: Among the risks of the project are the chance that the recently
enacted legal reforms would not be properly implemented or
that there would not be continuity in the reform process after
the upcoming presidential elections in December 1993. The
latter risk seems quite low because the next goanment will
most likely be of the same coalition and stress continuity with
the successfiul policies of the current governmet. Becu  of
these ris4 it was deemed advisable to make this a pilot,
rather than a full-fledged, project. There is also a risk that
some municipalities would not be interested in implementing
the type of management imprvements proposed by the
project. lb reduce this risk, only those municipalities with a
demonsated interest in and potential for effective
implementation of reforms have been chosen to participate in
the project (see para. 14). As an added incentive, the MlSPs
of the participating municipalities will be financed by national
government grants, except for some equipment. In addition,
the national and regional govemments plan to apply new
performance criteiia to part of the allocation prcess for
national/municipal trnsfers, which would strengthen the
incentives for participation in reform. Another risk is that
spiralling municipal expenditures on education and health
would consume the resources necessary to deal vith more
basic reform issues. lb reduce this risk, specific actions to
improe overall fiscl performance in the supply of education
and health semrices will be identified in the MISPs required of
all participating municipalities. Fmally, there is a risk of
deficiencies in the ability of the project's executing unit (the
PEU) to carry out the coordination and m mn_t funcions
required for the pilot project's execution. lb minimize this



vi
risk, the Government has allocated significant staff resources
to this unit, and has confirmed that it will prmide all the
funds, fcilities, staff and resources required by the PEU to
carry out its functions and responsibilities in an efficient and
timely manner. An executive coordinator (i.e., project
manager) and an experienced implementation specalist have
been assigned to it.



vii
TAble 1: Fstnated Project Cos
(millions of US dollars)
compolen                            Lcl    rwig    TOTAL          reign
Munidpal Uttonul Deeopment           9.0      4.0       13.0       31
Nationa Insituiona Devlopment        2.4      1.4       38         37
Con dsi~encleu                       2.2      1.0       3.2        31
TOrAL PROJECr COST                   13.6     6.4       20.0       32
lAble 2: Fluanuig Plan
(millions of US dols)
Souce as % of
Sorce                       Lal   Foreign  TOTAL             total
RD                           3.6       6.4     10.0           50
Gorunient of Chile          9.2       -        9.2           46
MunIcipalities              0.8       -        0.8            4
TOTAL PROJECr COSI           13.6      6.4     20.0           100
lIable 3: Estimated Disbursements
(milions of US dollars)
Bank FiscalYar             1994         199S        199C        1997
AnnuA                       0.4         3.1         3.0          1.5
Coinuladve                  0.4         3.5          8.5        10.0



1. THE SECTOR
The Subnational Public Sector and Its Reform
Badcground
1.1   Since 199), Chile bas enacted far-reaching legislative and
constitutional reforms that have dramatically increased the responsibilities,
own-source revenues, and resources being transfenred to both municipalities
and regions (hereafter, subnational govemments) in Chile's public sector. As
analyzed in Chile: Subnational Government Finance (Report No. 10580-CH),
these reforms pxsent both opportunities and risks. Opportunities include the
potential gains from more efficient assignment of responsibilities and
reveues between the national and subnational governments, and greater
accountability of local officials. Among the potential risks are: the
possibility that the central government will have difficulty in implementing
the rebrms effectively; the possibility that subnational governments will not
be technically and institutionally able to carry out their new responsibilities
efficiently; and reduced fiscal discipline due to political pressure of the newly
elected subnational government officials on the central government for
imcreased national/subnational trmnsfer  The establishment of adequate
incentives for efficiency and fiscal discipline in the nationallsubnational
transfer system is particularly important.
1.2   The stakes in these reforms are high because the subnational public
sector is increasingly important in Chies consolidated public sector. In
1990, municipal on-budget expenditures were 2.3% of GDP (US$648
million, or 13% of total public sector expendiums). Including off-budget
expendituresV (most of which are channeled through regional governments)
wuld raise this total to 5.3% of GDP (or US$1.5 billion). Municipalities
play a key role in the provision of social services that benefit lower income
groups (e.g., prmary health care, and prmary and secondary education).
Municipal governments also have primary responsibility for the delivery and
maintennce of urban infrastructure and services upon which economic
grwth and enironmental quality depend, including: (a) street paving and
lighting; (b) solid waste collection, disposal and treatment; (c) drainage; (d)
open space and recreation; and (e) cemeteries. Municipalities also play an
important role in assuring equity in Chiles development, since they
administer six of the country's main poverty alleviation prograns which
mnolve direct tansfers to low income individuals and fmiles.
The Reforms
1.3   Following a constitutional amendment in November 1991, a basic
municipal law (Lei No. 18695 Orgdca Constintional de MuniCalldades3
ZI Expendites controlled wholly or in part by the municipalities but which do not
appear in the muicipal accouns. For example, the expenditures of municipal coapoaons
on health and education do not appear in the municipal accounts, as these ae *puivate
corporaton. In other cases, the mnicipalities propose and execute investment projects that
ae paid for by entities of the national govemnment.



2
was promulgated in March 1992. These changes allowed democratic
elections for mayos and local councilors in July 1992 for the first time since
the return to democratic rule. The constitutional amendment increased the
impotance of regional goveanments (which were first set up in 1974) by
giving them an independent legal status (personaldadjurdlfca) and the right
to own prperty. In addition, a new law regulating regional govemments,
promulgated in March 1993 (    NA lx L75 Qr C&kg cm La &ua sre
Goblerno y                    , increases the resources transferred
from the national to regional governments (which in turn are often
transfrred to municipal gove-mments). This law also provides for the
allocation of the resources of the national sectcoal ministries by the regional
governments. For example, the national government's 1993 budget allocates
a total of US$144 million for the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional
(FNDR) and US$114 million for the regionally assigned national resources (a
total of US$258 million). Furthermore, the regional law proides that this
amount will increase at a rate 25 e n-highr than total national inmestment
not in this category for the next two years
1.4   Currendy, an extensive reforn of the municipal revenue bill (Boui
dev Lade Rentas MwIcialer) is before Congress. Among its key provisions
is the enhancement of municipal fiscal autonomy by allowing municipal
goments more flexibility in setting tax rates and collecfing user charges.
1.5 The new subnational government legislation is only the first step in
what will inevitably be a long process of political and institutional change. It
nevetheless provides a very firm legal basis for reforms. The immediate
challenge for the central government, as well as for the municipalities, is to
strengthen municipal institutions by improving management techniques,
information sytems, and fiacial planning, as well as by fine tuning
national and local legislation and administrative regulations.
FbLotlc Subdivision Scheme
1.6 Chile's unitary government structure has three levels of subnational
government:
Regional: The 13 regional govenments were created by decree in
1974. They are headed by intendentes who are appointed directly by
the President.
Ptovincial: The 51 provinces lost most of their functions with the
creation of regional governments, but still exist.
Municipal: There are 334 municipalities in Chile.
1.7   All municipal govenments have a central administration or gesidn
munWal. Mwuicipalities normally charge either a decentralizd
administration  (de)memo) or a privant corpotion (corpomnci
mw*lpao with providing services for health, education, and cemeteies.



?.
Municipal and regional corpoations (e.g., the regional water and sewer
corporations) are DriYat entities over which the public entides exercise
varying degrees of control.
Municipal and Regional Dlversity
1.8 Of the 334 municipalities, 200 (60%) have fewer than 20,000 people,
and together hold only 15% of the country's total population. Of these 200,
55 municipalities have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants and many have
considerably fewer than 1,000. Only 40 municipalities (12% of the total)
have more than 100,000 inhabitants each; together they contain 57% of the
total population. Almost half of the municipalities with more than 100,000
inhabitants are in the Metropolitan Region of Santiago, contaning 26.8% of
Chils total population.
1.9  Pbpulation density varies enormously among the regions. For
example, Region X has a population density of only 0.7 person per square
kilometer, whereas the Metropolitan Region of Santiago has a density of 335
inhabitants per square kilometer.
Sector Strategy
1.10 The sector strategy to support improvements in subnational
government in Chile was outlined in the Chile: Subnational Government
~inanc sector paper. The Bank's country assistance strategy for Chile
includes key elements of this strategy. Institutional stengthening is crucial
to succeu decentralization, particularly after the recent democratization at
the municipal level. The Chile: Infrastructure Strategy No' also reflects
the main policy recommendations of the sector paper for subnational
goverments: "The challenge is to transform the theoretical benefits of
decentraztion into real ones, while avoidi  undue loss of efficiency and
quality of services" (pam. xi).
1.11 As the principal focus of Chile's democratic reforms at the
subnational level, municipalities will also inevitably be the principal agents of
change, provided that the momentum for reform is sustained. For this
reason, sector stegy calls for Bank support of the central government's
efforts to strengtben municipalities and improve its own intections with
them. The three key points of the stategy are to:
(a)   Facilitate a clear definition of functions and responsibilities for
service prvision among municipal, regional and central
governments.
(b)   Propose incentives for subnational govrnments to fulfil their
responsibilities (relative to point (a)) in an efficient, equitable
and fiscally prudent manner.
3I Ropoft No. 11234-C, Novmber 19, 1992.



4
(c) Strengthen the institutional capacity of subnational govemnments
to carry out their functions (relative to point (a)) by improving
their oranization and methods, providing them with
management tools, and training officials in the application of
new methods and in the use of the tools provided.
1.12 The proposed project would support this strategy by providing a
context for the continuation of a policy dialogue with the central government
concerning policy decisions in connection with points (a) and (b). The
project would also directly introduce organizational changes and new
mangement techniques under point (c) to municipalities willing and able to
improve their institutional performance substantially.
1.13 The main objective of a longer term program would be to assist the
Govenment in enhancing efficiency, equity, and fiscal discipline in the
subnational public sector during the implementation of the recently enacted
subnational govenment reforms. While action is urgently needed to assure
effective implementation of these reforms, a full scale program would take
too long to prepar and would be too risky during this transition period (both
in terms of the implementation of the reforms and because of the upcoming
presidential elections in December 1993). Thus, to initiate some of the more
urgently needed steps while controlling the risks, the proposed intvention
would be a pilot Mect (hereafter refered to as the project). The project
strategy would be to concentrate on those issues identified in the sector paper
(see pam. 2.3) that can be addressed effectively in the short run, while
defining strategies for future reform in those areas that cannot now be
addressed for lack of knowledge or resources.
1.14 This project would be the first of one or more stages needed to
implement the main reforms discussed in the sector report. At the uaLiwial
level, the project will focus on identifying concrete policy options for
strengtening existing incentives and identifying new incentives for
subnational govemments to follow macroeconomically sound fiscal practices.
In addition, the project would focus on improving the existing infDrmation
system for policy analysis and monitoring of subnational fiscal performance.
At the municipal level, the project would focus on improving the
management tools that wuld enable municipalities to respond to the newly
identified and strengthened incentives.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.15 A top Govenment priority for Bank support is to obtain assistance in
taking full advantage of the opportunities presented by the recent subnational
govenment reforms, while avoiding or reducing the risks involved in their
implementation (see pam. 1.1). The Bank would primarily provide continued
technial assistance and policy advice, as Chile's fiscal surplus and favorable
balance of payments have reduced the need for major resource transfer
The Bank can fcilitate cross frtilization based on the acperiences of similar
prqects in other countries of the region. The proposed project would also



5
help the Government in onizing future bilawal and mulilatral assistance
to subnational governments.
lessons Learned from Other Bank Involvement
1.16 The principal lessons learned from over a decade of Bank experiei e
in lending for municipal development, both in the LAC region and
worldwide, include the importance of: (a) strong and consistent central
govemment support for the principles of financially sound municipal
devlopment; (b) intensive project supetvision; (c) project design that is
simple and that, at the subproject level, reflects the needs and desires of
participadng municipalities; (d) reasonable criteria for the deterinaon of
municipalitie~ eligibility for project funding and/or participation; and (e)
adequate cental assistance to the municipalities in the identification and
preparation of subprojects; and (f) simple and efficient procedures for
subproject review and approval. See Annex B for more details on lessons
earned from Bank inwolvement.



6
2. THE PROJECr
Project Origin
2.1    The proposed project is a direct result of the policy dialogue initiated
by the sector work. The Government has given high priority to obtaining
assistance for the implementation of the reforms at the subnational
government level (see para. 1.15).
Project Objectives
2.2    This project will contribute to the objectives of the longer term
program (see pam. 1.13). The specific objectives of this project are to:
(a)   Increase the institutional and technical capacity of mInidial
grnments to assume their greater responsibilities by:
(i) Enhancing their capacity to generate own-source
revenues, including user fees.
(ii) Increasing their institutional capacity to plan, program,
finance, execute, operate, maintain, and monitor
expenditure prgrams that are economically and
financially sound.
(b) Improve the national government's capacity to accomplish its
main macroeconomic goals at the municipal level, especially
through the design of incentives for increased efficiency and
fiscal discipline in the national/municipal transfer system.
Project Components
2.3    The project would consist of two institutional development
components, one focussed on improvmng municipal management and the other
on strengthening the central government's capacity to implement effectively
the decentaliation reforms underwa ksee Annex C for details). Project
components and subcomponents are as follows:1'
(a)    Municipal Institutional Development Component (US$15.5
million).5' This component would include the following
subcomponents for the municipalities in the pilot project
4/ The municipal/national classification in this section refers to the fmus of the actions
described (i.e., on the municipal or national level), but not necesarily to which level woud
actualy execute the activities of ffie given component For example, especialy in the initial
pbase of project implementation, the central project executing entity might contct most or
all of the activities involved.
I/ All dollar amounts include allocations for contingencies (shown in detail in Table
2.1).



7
(i)  Genend Municipal MnaMent lmpvment (US$3.7
million), including preparation of Municipal
Institutionai Strengthening Plans (MISPs) and the
improvement of the overall oiganiational structure,
service to the public, municipal planning procedures
including human-resources planning and sector-specific
planning, pre-investment studies, and management and
implementation of physical investment projects.
(ii)  Financial MWagementStrengthening (US$8.4 million),
including the improvement of financial planning and
record-keeping, revenue collection, expense control,
and cost recovery strategies, as well as the design and
implementation of multi-purpose property cadastres.
(liii)  Municj Magent Information Systems (US$3.4
million), including the establishment of management-
oriented and sector-specific information systems.
(b)   National lnstitutional Development Component (US$4.5
million), including the following subcomponents:
(i) National Infonmat!on System for Municipalities (US$2.2
million), including the upgrading of the existing
national information system, the identification of
municipal management performance indicators to be
incorporated into a municipal rating system, and the
development of a project evaluation and monitoring
System.
(ii) Analysis of Policy Alternatives for Improving
NationallSubnational Fiscal Relations (US$1.1 million),
including the analysis of policy alternatives for
improving national, regional, and municipal fiscal
rlations, mainly in the areas of the resource transfer
system to municipalities, municipal management
performance, and municipal multi-year financial
planning.
(iii) Evaluation of the Impact of Regional and Sector
Investments on Municipal Finances (US$0.5 million),
including the analysis of the impact of municipal
investments in the areas of health, education, housing,
and infrstrucure on other current expenditures, and of
the need for coordination of these investments to
prevent negative effects on local development.
(iv)  PrEject Executing Unit (US$0.7 million), including
management and operation of the project.



8
Tmining of municipal staff, including the development of courses and
semiars, is included in the respective components and subcomponents of the
MISPs.
Selection of MunIcIpalItIes
2.4   The main objective of the selection process was to select
municipalities that are representative and have a high probability of
sucully generating and implementing useful innovations and reforms that
could be transferable to other municipalities. 'Ib this end, the selection
crteria included: (a) signifcant coverage of total population; (b)
repesentativeness in terms of populadon size, percentage of rural population,
and administrative capacity; (c) demonstrated capacity to implement refirm;
and (d) a high degree of commitment to institutional reform. See Annex A
for details.
Project Costs
2.5   The total project cost is estimated at US$20.0 million equivalent,
including taxes and duties. The foragn exchange component is estmated at
US$6.4 million, or 32% of total project costs. Costs estimates (see Abble
2.1) are based on a sample of typical subprojects prepared by the
municipalities and reviwed during appraisal. Physical and price
contingencies are estimated at 10% of total base cost each.
2.6 Locally procured goods are subject to a value-added tax (VAT) of 18
percent. Imported goods such as vehicles and computers are subject to an 11
percent customs tax and an 18 pecent VAT. The total project cost includes
approximately US$1.0 million equivalent in local taxes and duties.



9
lible 2.1 Project Cost Summary
(millions of US dollars)
Pkqjt Componw_                         Lal  Foreign  TOTAL   Foregn
A. Munid Inditltonal Develpment         9.0     4.0     13.0      31
Gener Municipal Management       1.9     1.2      3.1      39
hnpnwement
Financial Manopment Strnthening  5.0     2.1      7.1      30
Municipal Management Inrimation  2.1     0.7      2.8      25
Systems
B. National hutitutional Deveopment     2.4     1.4      3.8      37
National Inimtion System an      0.9     0.9      1.8      50
Municipalities, PNrbmance
Indica, and Design of Evaluation
and Monitoring System
Analysis of Policy Altmatives for  0.6   0.4      1.0      40
mpvig Nati
Fiscal Reolatins
Bvaluation of the Impte of Regional    0.3  0.1   0.4      25
and Sector Inestments on Municipal
Finaces
Ptoject Executing Unit
0.6     0.0      0.6      0
Total Base Cost                        11.4    5.4      16.8      32
Pkycal Contingencies             1.1     0.5      1.6      32
Price Contingcies                1.1     0.5      1.6      32
Totl Project Cost                      13.6    6.4      20.0      32
Fianciag Plan
2.7   The total project cost of US$20 million would be financed in equal
parts by the Bank and the Government, with a relatively small participation
by the municipalities. The Bank's share of US$10 million (50% of total
project cost) would finance US$6.4 million in foreign costs, plus about
US$3.6 million in local costs (about 26% of total local costs). The Borrower
would be the Republic of Chile. The Bank loan, together with the national
government funds, wouwld be passed on as budgetary transfirs to the PEU to
finance all subprojects contracted at the central level. Funds to finance
subprojects executed directly by the municipalities would be passed on to
them, also in the form of budgetary transfers, except that in the case of
goods (eg., computer hardware and software), municipalities would



10
contribute 25% of costs from their own funds. lbble 2.2 summarizes the
financing plan.
Table 2.2 Fiancing Phau
(millions of US dollars)
Source as % of
Souree                     Ial   Foreign  TlrAL           otal
IBRD                        3.6      6.4     10.0          50
chile:
Government of Chile        9.2      -       9.2          46
Mumeipalit.               Q0.8      -       0.8           4
TUrAL PROJECr coSr          13.6    6.4      20.0         100



11
3. lPROJECr lMPLEMENTATION
Imuplementathon Aangements
3.1   The project would be aexcuted by a Project Executing Unit (PEU) in
the Subsecretwra de Desarrollo Regional y Adminisrndw, (SUBDERE) of
the Ministry of Intior. The PEU would be linked directly to the Municipal
Division of SUBDERE (see Annex E for the orgnizational arrangements and
the functional rsponsibilities of the PEU). Linking the PEU to this division
will assure sustainability of the municipal institutional development
subprojects, as this division is directly responsible for improving the fiscal
performance of municipal governments. The Municipal Division is also
responsible for the exising National Information System on Municipalities
that will be improved as a subproject of the project. Given the primarily
fiscal objectives of the project, an ad-hoc Special Council would be
established with repesentatives of SUBDERE and the Direccidn de
wueto of the Ministry of Fmance to guide and coordinate the main
policies and opetonal decisions affecting the project. The Special Council
would meet periodically as required.
3.2   The Project Manual (PM) (see Annex G for a description of its main
elements) wuld cover all regulations concerning relationships between the
PEU and the municipalities (including eligibility criteia for subprojects,
operational procedures, institutional arrangements within the municipality,
supevision, and monitoring and evaluation procedures). The PEU would
administer the project in accordance with the PM which would not be
amended without prior Bank consent.
3.3   The selected municipalities (see para. 2.4) would each develop a
MISP with the assistance of the PEU to identify their main management
problems as well as the actions and subprojects needed to resolve them. The
development of the MISP would be done in two stages: a) selection of those
areas which require strengthening in the municipality (cvering with special
emphasis the prwvision of health and education services); and b) preparation
of final detailed Tlms of Refrence (MORs) for the chosen sWbprojects,
including their components, costs, benefits, and financing and implementation
schedule when required. The terms of reference for the MISP would be
defined in the PM. The PEU and the Bank would review all MISPs (for
more details see para. 10 of Annex A). The preparation of an acceptable
MISP would be a condition of municipal eligibility for subproject financing.
Each municipality would enter into an agreement with the PEU to execute its
MISP. The MISP would also serve as an instrument to follow up on the
success of the municipal govemment in resolving the problems identified,
thereby increasing municipal accountability.
3.4   At negotiations, assuances irm the Government were obtained that it
wiL:



12
(a)   Maintain the PEU in SUBDERE of the Ministry of Interior
with staffing, responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b)   Provide all the funds, facilites, staff and wesources required by
the PEU to carry out its functions and responsibilites in an
efficient and timely manner.
(c) Hold a mid-term review of the project by not later than
December 31, 1995, follonwing which changes wwuld be
introduced if necessary.
3.5   Assurances fom the Government were also obtained for the following
conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   That the PEU has been staffed in a manner satisctory to the
Bank.
(b) That the PEU has entered into Wreements with at least five
municipalities.
(c)   That the Bank has approved terms of reference for contwacts in
connection with MISPs, or municipal or national level
subprojects estimated to cost, in the aggregate, not less than
US$500,000 equivalent.
(d)   That the Project Manual has been put into effect in terms
satisctory to the Bank.
3.6 The municipalities would be primarily invlved in the preparation and
implemenlation of their respective MISPs and subprojects in  danc with
the Project Manual (see para. 3.2). They would also actively participate as
required in the execution of those national subprojects affecting municipal
functions (e.g., management information systems or monitoring and
eWaluation systems), or of those subprojects at the municipal level which may
be executed centrally for technical or efficiency reasons. The mayor of each
municipality would appoint a project coordinator for the municipality and
would assign the necessry staff and resources to assist him.
Staus of Project Preparation and Implementation Schedule
3.7   The project is in an advanced stage of preparation. The Prqect
Executing Unit (PEU) has been established, and an expernced executive
coordnator (project manager) and an implementation specialist have been
assigned to it. lb speed implementation after loan effectiveness, the PEU is
currently: (a) preparing the final bidding documents to contact the
consultants to do the central subprojects; (b) finalizing the Project Manual;
and (c) adjusting the estng procurement documents for use in this project.



13
Funds for countepart have been included in the 1994 budget currently under
consideration by Congress.
Procurement
3.8    The PEU would review all procurement activities to ensure efficiency
and compliance with Bank Prcurement Guidelines and standard documents.
It would also carry out all institutional strengthening subprojects at the
national level, as wel as subprojects at the municipal level which either
require a common approach, or which may be carried out more efficiently by
municipalities. It was ageed that only municipalities which demonstate to
the satisfction of the PEU and the Bank that they have the necessary
capabilities would be permitted to procure directly. Procurement would be
carried out in accorance with the Bank Guidelines for Procurement of
Goods and Wrks (May 1992). Since there are no specific procurement laws
in Chile, the bidding documents relevant to each type of procurement
regulate the process. Bank standard bidding documents would be used for
the procurement of goods under ICB Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, documents based on other
interaionally recognized standard forms satisfctory tD the Bank will be
used. Standard bidding documents for LCB would be set forth in the Project
Manual. Consultants will be contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Use of Consultants (August 1981) and, in the case of complex, time-
based asgnments, using the Bank's Standard Form of Contract (March
1989).
Table 3.1 Procurement Arrang es
(millions of US dollars)
ftocurauent Mtodw
P!ject EBsent                 ICB    LCB   Shopping    Other    Cost
Goods                          0.4     2.0       0.6        -       3.0k'
(0.4)2'  (2.0)    (0.6)               (3.0)
Cosuting Servie                 -       -         -        16.8    16.84
(7.0)    (7.0)
Project                         -       -         -        0.2       0.2
(0.0)    (0.0)
TOTAL                          0.4     2.0       0.6       17.0     20.0
(0.4)   (2.0)    (0.6)      (7.0)    (10.0)
ILI FIgre in pmams haeldieat allcatons of Bank LOan proceed
Ld  ihncue duties and odhrtae
g/ inculud Aees. vehicles moateias equipment, prpaution of docunen. trve ad sNbsistene coats
git it is assumed that coaaultk firms aNd indVidual onaultent Will Oat cru salW Oax (VAI for serice
provided
S! Inludes salaries offU aff and o  opeb g cOsts (e.g.. OE spplie rn, utlities etc.) not eliib fOr
ntnumeat underw h  Loan.



14
3.9   G      The bulk of goods to be procured under the project would be
computer hardware, software and peripheral equipment, as well as some
office equipment and supplies for the PEU. Because of Chile's open market
conditions, most reputable foreign suppliers of required equipment are
represented in the country, assuring a fair amount of competition and on-site
capacity for maintenance services. Purchases of similar types of equipment
would be packaged in contracts as large as possible. Management
information and other systems based on computer equipment and software
would mostly be procured using a two-stage process satisfactory to the Bank.
Bank-financed goods contracts Walued at US$350,000 or more per contract
would be awarded following ICB procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines (May 1992). Bank-financed contracts valued at less than
US$350,000 but more than US$100,000 per contract, totling up to US$2.0
million equivalent, may be awarded follownng LCB procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Local shopping procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be used
for contracts alued at less than US$100,000 per contract, totalling up to
US$0.6 million equivalent.
3.10 Consultanes All consultant services for the PEU, institutional
development studies for municipalities, studies at the national level, and
taning would be contracted following Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). The use of standard Lets of Invitation and
evaluation criteria would be encouraged. Tob the extent possible,
consuancies for similar activities in various mnicipalities would be grouped
to ahieve consistency and economies of scale.
3.11              Tho Reew  The Bank's prior review of documentation for the
procurement of goods and contracting of consultants would cover all major
procurement steps (advetsing, bidding documents, evaluation reports, award
recommendation and contacts, etc.) and would apply to: (a) all contracts
under ICB; (b) the frst three contracts contced by the PEU under LCB for
goo7s, and aU those costing US$150,000 equivlent or more; (c) the first
three consulting contracts contracted by the PEU below US$100,000; (d) at
least the first three contracts for goods contracted by each of the first three
municipalitie; and (e) all further contracts for consulting services contracted
by the PEU or municipalities and valued at US$100,000 equivalent or more.
However, all terms of reference for consulting assignments (regardless of
their estimated cost), as wel as all single-source contrts, consultancies of a
critical nature, and consulting contract with individuals would be submitted
for prior review by the Bank. It is estimated that Bank prior eview would
cover about 60% of Bank-financed contrct  Contra  not subject to pnor
review would be reviewed cc-post on a sample basis. The sample would be
suggested by the PEU and aproved by the Bankl



15
Disbusement and Accounts
3.12 The proposed project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996,
and te loan fuily disbursed by December 31, 1996 (the pmposed Closing
Date). This period of ftree years is necessary to test fully the many different
refMs.  b fte extent possible, implementation of the broader praga
would begin simultaneously with the pilot project Wa dissemination of t'e
successul institutional development solutions.
3.13 The PELT willd directly disburse the necessary loan funds under the
naional development component and the contracts centrally contracted by it,
and would manage the channeling of loan funds for contract contracted by
mwuncipalities. 'b expedite the flow of funds, a Special Account would be
established at the Centmal Bank. The PEU would draw from this Account,
and would keep all records and supportng papers required for each
expenditure to icilitae the necessary e-post reviews, audits and requests for
replenishment of the Special Account (see para. 3.14). Except for contracts
requiing pior review, disbursements would be made against certified
tatements of expenditures, for which detailed documentation as evidence of
expenditures would be kept by the PEU and made available for the required
audits and for review by the Bank. It is expected that by negotiations, the
Bank would receive for its review the final version of the accounting and
disbursement procedures to be prepared by the PEU. The estimated loan
disbursement distribution is shown in %i3ble 3.2; the quarterly disbursement
profle is shown in Annex H.
Thble 3.2 EstImated Disbursement
(millions of US dollars)
Catoay                    Amount of Loan     % of Epedturs to be
Afocated             Finaned
Goods                          3.0         100% of ieigpendi ULM
and 100% of local
epnt  (ex-fackwy cost)
Co_uulin Servic                7.0                  50%
Tbtal                          10.0
Bank Fiscal Year         199        1995       199         15
Annual                   0.4         3.1        5.0        1.5
Cunulatne                0.4         3.5        8.5        10.0



16
3.14  S'l Ib facilitate timely project implemenlation, the
Govemment would establish, maintain, and operate (under terms and
conditions satisfctory to the Bank) a Special Account in US dollars at the
Cential Bank of Chile. Upon being requested by the Government, the Bank
would make an initial deposit of up to US$0.67 million, equivalent to the
average four months' project financing requirement, to the Special Account.
The PEU wwuld monitor aU project expenditures and would request
replenishment of the Special Account on the basis of standard disbursement
procedures.
3.15                      Retroactive financing of up to US$1 million
(10% of the proposed loan) may be provided for eligible expenditures
incurred up to 12 months before loan signatue, but after the beginning of the
preapaisal mission on March 1, 1993. Retroactive financing would be used
principally to finance preparatory activities required to facilitate project
implerientation that have already been initiated.
Audits
3.16 The project loan account, Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and the
Special Account would be audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank. The Bank would require the auditor to apply auditing standards and
procedures satisory to the Bank and to carry out its work in a timely
manner (i.e., an annual report would be presented no later than six months
after the end of each calendar year). The PEU wwld have the annual audit:
(i) eamine compliance with aU Loan Agreement covenants, including
implementation of eligibility critexia established in the Project Manual; and
(ii) include a management letter identifying major deficiencies and making
recommendations for their improvement.
Reporting and Monitoring
3.17 Because the proposed project is to become the basis for a much
broader program, its reporting and monitoring procedures assume much more
importance than they would in a regular operation. Thus, a continuous
evaluation and reporting process ,s being designed. This process will
produce not only key indicators to monitor project execution, but also a
wider set of indicators intended to evaluate the impact of the project on the
performance and management of municipalities. These indicators would be
complemented, in the respective reports, by specific comments on the actions
required to correct any weaknesses or problems detected.
3.18 Thus, there wold be three sets of interrelated indicators to monitor
and evaluate: (a) indicators of the pace and quality of project execution; (b)
indictors of the impact of the project on the participatng municipalities; and
(c) indicators of the experiences and lessons of the project to facilitate the
design of a program that will include all municipalities. The first set of
indicatrs would help analyze the smoothness and timeliness of project
eecution. The second set would show how well the project strengthens the



17
performance of the participating municipalities. The last set would help
develop the main product of the project: a blueprint for a full prgram of
assistance to all municipalities (see Annexes D and F for an analysis of these
indicators).
3.19 During project execudon the PEU would prepare: (i) quarterly
impementation progress reports based on the lint set of indicators; and (ii)
annual reports analyzing the impact of the project on the municipalities. The
PEU should circuate the annual reports widely to disseminate this
information to municipalities and other entities that may be intrested in it.
On completion of dte project, but not later than six months after the date of
Loan Closing, the PEU would prepare a drft Project Completion Report
with a detailed description of the lessons learned in the project, and its
recommendations for the expansion of this program to other municipalities by
June 3, 1997.
3.20 The Bank would supervise project execution very closely and, in
parcular, would review on a continuous basis the various programs of the
picipating municipalities and national entities. For this purpose, the Bank
wuld have a intensive supervision program (see Annex D) based on bi-
annual missions to Chile, complemented by the planned prgress reports and
by periodic visits (at least once a year) to ashington by key officials from
the PEU. The first Bank supervision mission wwuld be a "project launch
workshop'. In addition, the Bank and the Government would hold an in-
depth mid-tm review of the project not later than December 31, 1995S,
following which changes could be introduced if necessary.



18
4. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Prqject Benefts
4.1   The project would contribute to the Government's  erall
macreconomic efficiency, equity, and stability goals. It would improve the
efficincyof the municipal public sector. It would also increase inupersonal
equity by augmentng administative efficiency in the prmision of health and
education services and in the local administation of national povrty
programs. Finally, the project would contribute direcdy to the maintenance
of fiscal discipline of the consolidated public sector by helping to establish
more adequate incentives for improved fiscal performance at the municipal
level, as well as by inceasing the capacity of municipalities to respond
effectively to these incentives.
Progam Objective Categories
4.2   Municipalities play a key role in the provision of social services that
benefit lower income groups (e.g., primary healh care, and primary and
secondary education). They also administer the main poerty alleviation
programs involving direct tansfers to individuals and amilies. Furthermore,
municipal governments in Chile are responsible for infrstrucure that is vital
to efficiency and environmental quality (e.g., urban streets, rural feeder
roads, and solid waste collection and disposal). Thus, increasing municipal
managerial capacity would contribute to the improvement of all program
categories involving these issues (i.e., poety alleviation, health, education,
eironmenl quality, and infrastructure).
Risks and Safeguards
4.3 Among the risks of the project are the chance that the recently enacted
legal reroms would not be properly implemented or that there would not be
continuity in the reform process after the upcoming presidential elections in
December 1993. The latter risk seems quite low because the next
govenment will most likely be of the same coalition and stess continuity
with the successful policies of the current government. Because of these
risks, it was deemed advisable to mabe this a pilot, rather than a full-fledged,
project. There is also a risk that some municipalities would not be interested
in implementing the type of management improvements proposed by the
project. lb reduce this risk, only those municipalities with a demonstrated
interest in and potential for effective implementation of reforms have been
chosen to participate in the project (see para. 14). As an added incentive,
the MISPs of the participating municipalities will be financed by national
govenment grants, except for some equipment. In addition, the national and
regional governments plan to apply new performance criteria to part of the
allcation process for national/municipal trsfers, which would stregthen
the incentives fr pacipaton in reform. Another risk is that spiralling
municipal expenditurs on education and health would consume the resources
necessary to deal with more basic reform  issues.  b reduce this d*s



19
specific actions to improve overall fiscal performance in the supply of
education and health services will be idenitified in the MISF's required of all
participating municipalities. Finally, there is a risk of deficiencies in the
ability of the project's eecuting unit (the PEU) to canry out the coordinaton
and management functions required for the pilot project's execution. lb
minimize this risk, the Government has allocated significant staff resources to
this unit, and has confirmed that it will provide all the funds, facilities, staff
and resources required by the PEU to carry out its functions and
responsibilities in an efficient and timely manner. An executiv coordinator
(i.e., project manager) and an experienced implementation speciist have
been assigned to it.



20
S. AGREEMS REACHED
5.1   During negotiations, assurances were obtained fom the Government
on the general conditions of the loan and on the conditions of its
effectiveness.
General Conditions
5.2   The Borrower will (see para. 3.4):
(a) Maintain a Project Execution Unit (PEU) in the Secretariat of
Regional Development and Administrative Modenization
(SUBDERE) of the Ministry of Interior with staffing,
responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Provide all the funds, facilties, staff and resources required by
the PEU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in an
effilcient and timely manner.
(c) Hold a mid-tern reriew of the project by December 31, 1995,
following which changes could be introduced if necessary.
5.3   The PEU (the implementing agency) will:
(a)   Administer the project in accordance with the Project Manual
which will not be amended without prior Bank consent (see
par. 3.2).
(b)   Have the project loan account, SOEs, and the Special Account
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The
Bank wil require the auditor to apply auditing standards and
pocedures satisfictory to the Bank and to carry out its work in
a timely manner (i.e., an annual report would be presentd no
later than six months after the end of each calendar year) (see
pam. 3.16, 5, 11).
(c) Have the annual audit: (i) examine compliance with all Loan
Agreement covenants, including implemenion of eligibility
criteria established in the Project Manual; and (ii) include a
management letter identifying major deficiencies and making
recommendations for their improvement (see para.
3.16, 5, 11).
(d) Prepare: (i) quarterly implementation progress reports; and (ii)
annual eports analyzing the impact of the project on the
municipalities, to be dciulated widely to municipalities and
other entities that may be intrested in them. In addition, on
completion of the project, but not later than six months after
the date of Loan Closing, the PEU will prepare (i) a dmft



21
Project Completion Report with a detailed description of the
lessons learned in the project, and recommendations for the
expansion of this program to other municipalities (see para.
3.19).
Conditions of Effectiveness
5.4   Conditions of loan effectiveness will be (see para. 3.5):
(a)   That the PEU has been staffed in a manner satisactory to the
Bank
(b)   That the PEU has entred into agreements with at least five
municipalities.
(c)   That the Bantk has approved terms of reference for contracts in
connection with MISPs, or municipal or national level
subprojects estimated to cost, in the agate, not less than
US$500,000 equivalent.
(d)   That the Project Manual has been put into effect in terms
satisfactr to the Bank.



ANNEXES



23                         Ane= A
A. SELEION OF THE MUNICIPALITIES
AND THEI  CHARACTERITCS
1.    The main objective of the selection process was to select
municipalites that are representaive and have a high probability of
succesfully genating and implemenng useful innovations and reforms that
could be transfrable to other municipalitie& lb this end, the selection
criteria included:
(a)   significant coverage of total population.
(b)   representofiveness in  rms of population size, percentage of
rural population and administrative capacity.
(c) demonstrated capacity to implement reform.
(d)   a high degee of commitment to institutional reform.
Methodology
2.    A tw-stage methodology was used in the selection process. The first
sage asred adequate diversity of the municipalities in the sample so that
the results of the project will be replicable in a wide rnge of municipalitiea
The second stge is to assure that those municipalities and municipal
assiations selected do in fact have sufflcient commitment to management
reFrm. The first stage has already been completed and the second is in
proces.
3.    The procedures in the two stages are:
(a)   First st. Selection of a sample of 25 municipalities Fifty-
nine other municipalies were selected as potential
replacements if any of the municipalities in the initial sample
fail to qualify for the project.
(b)   Sond 9W. Each municipality selected in the first stage will
have to demonstate its commitment to municipal management
reform by meetig a sequence of progressively more eacting
criteria (e.g., signing of a letter agreeing to reforms,
preparation of a diagnosis of its main management problems,
prepation of a Municipal Institutional Strngthening Plan)
(see paras. 3.16, 5, 11-3.16, 5, 11).
Procedurs i the Fist Stage
4.    There were three steps in the first stage:



24                         Annex A
(a)   All 334 municipalities were statified into 21 groups based on:
(a) the percentage of rural population (seven groups ranging
from highly nru to completely urban); and (b) the total
populion size group (small, medium and laWge).
(b)   Within each of these 21 groups, four municipalimes we
selected based on their financial performance (two with low
and two with high performance), creating a list of 84
municipalities. The average of the last three years (1990 -
1992) of following quantitative financial   on
indicators were used in selecting these municipalities:
(i) Per capita permanent revenue (tUaes, fes, and
automatic revenue sharing, but excluding discretionary
grants).
.ii) Expendiuhres on personnel and goods as a percentage of
own-source revenues (taxes and fees).
(iii)  Expenditures on municipal services as a percentage of
own-source revenues
(iv) Municipal transfers for health and education as a
prcentage of own-source revenues.
(v)  Tbtal investment as a percentage own-source revenues.
(vi) Expenditures on preinvestment studies as a percentage
of own-source revenues.
(c)   the selection committee (composed of representatives of the
PEU and the Ministries of Firnance and Interior) chose 25 of
these 84 municipalities to participate in the project. The
committee made this selection considering adequate
representation of municipalities from each of the regions of the
country. The remaining fifty-nine municipalities in the list are
potential replacements if any of the municipalities in the initial
sample fail to qualify for participation in the project in the
second stage of the selection process.
Procedes in the Second Stage
5.    The purpose of the second stage of the selection process for
municipalities is to ensure that those municipalities chosen in the first stage
have a sufflcient degree of commitment to management eforim. Each of the
25 municipalities will demonstrate its commitment to management reform by
completing a sequence of four steps, beginning with the conclusion of a
fomal agteement with the Project Executing Unit (PEU) atsting to the



25                         Annex A
municipality's wilirgnes to pardtipate in the project, and ending with the
execution, monitofing, and evaluation of a fully developed Municipal
Institutional Str hening Plan (MISP) (see para. 10). While the specific
design of the MISP will differ in each municipalit,; the objectives and
sequence of steps to be akn wiUl not change.
6.    Step 1: Pre-Dlagnols The objectives of this step are, first, to
familiarize the chosen municipalities with the projet; second, to define the
areas in which consultants will work during step 2 (see para. 8); and third, to
conclude agmeements between the PEU and individual municipaities
formaliing their relatonships within the project.
7.    Step 2: Diagnosis The purpose of this step is to diagnose the
situation of individual muicipalities in terms of their capacity for
management, examining their strengths, weaknesses, needs, objectives, and
available resources.
8.    First, the management situation of each municipality will be
described, emphaing needs and problems related to finances,
Iministration, and se,vices provision, as well as the identiication of
possible solutions. In this st, management perfonce indicawrs will be
identifed. Second, actions which could be underan without additional
rsources, and which would yield immediate improvements in finances,
aministaion, and/or services provision, would be identified. Third,
potential subprojects wuld be identifed and prioritized. Fmially, a plan for
the execution of step 3 wuld be designed, including the identification of
human, data, and other resources that the muncipalites woutd be responsible
for contributing. The outcome of this step wiU be a diagnostic report to
serve as the basis for the design of individual MISPs
9.    Step 3: Development of the MISP The objective of this step is to
design a MISP, selectng those areas which require strengthening in the
municipality, and preparing final Tlerms of PRference (ORs) for the chosen
subprojects, including their components, costs, benefits, and financing and
implementaion schedules when required. Events wiU be held to encourage
the community to participate in the identification and priortizaton of its
problems and their possible solutions, and to enable municipal staff and other
authorities to participe in the definition of the MISP. It will be the
reWonsibility of the municipality to ensure the participation of these officials.
10. The final MISP will include a diagnosis of the municipal situation,
including municipal management objectives and performance indicators; a
summary of subprojects and other activities to be implemented; a description
of mechanisms for coordination. monitoring, evaluation, and  eation of tne
MISP; estimates of the resources needed and proposed implementaion
schedules; and a description of the risk and external factors that should be
taken into account.



26                         Annex A
11.  In additon, monitoring and evaluation of progress in the execution of
actions recommended in step 2 will be carried out, as will necessary tining.
Rpot  on the progress and results of the project monitorng and evaluation
ytem will be prepared.
12.   Step 4: Excutlon, Monitoring, and Evaluation The purpose Of this
step is to implement the chosen subproject, including the contactng of
consultants for technical assistance; to monitor and evaluate progress, and
readjust the MISP accordingly; to evaluate subproject results by obtaining
and anayzing the information made awailable in previous steps, especially the
management indicators defined in step 2; to hold events to encourage the
continued participation of muimcipal staff, other officials, and the local
community in analyzing proges and in recommending expansion and/or
readjustment of the MISP; and to reorient the project as necessary to improve
the likelihood of achieving project objectives.
Chaacteristics of the Municipalites Slected
13.  For a summary of the distribution of population and number Of
municpalities by population mange, see 1ible A. 1. For a breakdown of pilot
municipslities by population, and a summary of characteristics of pilot
municipalities by region, see Mibles A.2 and A.3.



27                            Annex A
lTbb A.1 Number and  opulatIon of Muncpalities By bpulation Range
Nubw of  ipaitu                              Popuaton (tusands)
Population    aU inunldpaltius   pilot munddpalities      au lul ipalitie    pilot munl dpatiets
Ra              (m0)               (1992)                   (1")                 (19)
TOTAL              324                 25                     13,200.0             1,792.2
(100%)p             (100%)                   (100%)              (100%)
ess than           198                  7                      1,953.6              95.6
20,000           (61.2%)             (28.0%)                  (14.8%)              (5.3%)
20,000 -            70                  5                     2,349.6              165.8
49,99            (21.5%)             (20.0%)                  (17.8%)              (9.3%)
50,000 -            16                  S                     1,346.4              351.1
99,999            (4.9%)             (20.0%)                  (10.2%)             (19.6%)
100,000+           40                   8                     7,550.4              1,179.7
(12.3%)            (32.0%)                  (57.2%)              (65.8%)
i Jnidual immlcapdtIea Municipal aa    s0 td.
k/ Numbes in pawh*s. lodaw p.uof   totfl added ooubwwi.



28                                     Annex A
MIble A.2 Breakdown of Pilot Municipalities By Populaton
1fItIaa   or NfW Muici.alitl
Popdain8ou RiiS           I'ItM unldpilhi                                                                Riglm
l Tabo                                               4,25                        V
Pi_qu                                               l1,30                      MRI
Carl-_a                                             11,698                       V
Cbaoa"                                              14,007                      1I
Colbd                                               16,941                      vn
Santa BDbam                                         17,707                      vm
Ida de Maino                                        19.720                     MRV
20.000-0 4999                                                                  3
lA Lig                                              27,378                       V
Mow at. Nti                                         28,206                      IV
C;asbv                                              30,275                       X
Nm  Impea                                           36,841                      ix
Caflavue                                            43.139                      la
-0.000 -                                                                      35199
Leta                                                50,173                      vm
sm Fuuma4.                                          56,32                       VI
carih                                               72,137                     MRI
S;  Andoa                                           77,719                       V
IA Cbkan                                            94.732                     MRV
loom"+                                                                      ,1.1,9 
Co"                                                 103,919                     VI
son Joaquh                                          112.353                    MRW
Cama                                                120,602                      I
Ouom                                                128,709                      X
Psiero Mou                                          130,730                      X
Li Thtm                                             1#,586                     MRW
N    aso                                            172,338                    MEW
MmS                                                 2S7.4t6                    MRf
TOTAL                                                                        1.792.216
A/ Meuopoitan Rion of S



I       i  1        o I     I   t    | IF   I            I         f I
If
2g                           FWF|                      g     j                    tig     T



30                         Am= B
L LESSONS OF EXERINCE FROM PREVIOUS BANK PROJECIS
1.    The prposed ptoject will benefit from the many lessons leaned over
more than a decade of Bank experience in municipal development, both in
the LAC region and worldwide. From the earliest Bank-financed municipal
deelopment projects,Y' the Operaons Evaluadon Deparmt (OED) foiund
that a strong commitment from the central govemment to the principles of
financially sound municipal development, and to ongoing reforms, is essential
for project success.2' Supervision, intensive during poject start-up, and
consistt throughout project implementaton, was also found to increase the
lielihood of success.
2.    From the Brazil: Paranl Market Towns Project (Ln 2343-BR), the
OED identified several key factors contributing to project success, including:
(a)   Local govenment support for the project's local leve
operations.
(b)   Small subprojects of relatively simple design, for which local
communites themselves had expressed a desire.
(c)   A competent, motivated team in charge of project management
at the local level.
(d)   Risk management by simultaneous initiation of subprojects in a
number of towns, thus reducing the all aveage risks of
delayed project execution as well as providing additional
political support.
3.    The ongoing BzilL: Muncp  Dement &rWa in Paran and
Rio Grande do Sul States (Ln 3100-BR and Ln 3129-BR, despectvely) have
shown that eligibility criteria (such as the preparation of detailed financial
and instiutional action plans) for participation in municipal development
projects should be clear and not excessively rigid. Clear and flexible
eligibility critena foster increased participation and, at the same time, prevent
delays in projects start-up and disbursements.
4.   In addition to the lessons learned from completed Bank projects in
municipal development, several Bank reviews provide lessons from both
completed and ongoing project germane to the proposed prqject A recent
ifrstructure and Urban Development Deparment (INURD) review of Bank
{I Jordn: Cities sad Villages Deveonmt Bank roject (La 1826-JO), appowved in
1981, and Jordan: Second Cities and ViYIag;s ULeveon Bank Prject (La 2614-JO).
1! V,w, Annual ieview: 199.



31                          Annex B
lending for municipal finance operationsl' emphasizes that the primary
objective of municipal finance should not be simply the increased extaction
of tax rewenues for municipal use. Insted, municipal finance opertons
must be designed as part of a broader effort to increase the accountability of
the public sector, thuough decentralization of control to the local level, and
through the creation of means and incentives that both allow and encourage
local governments to respond to local priorities. Thus, successful municipal
finance reform must start, not with increasing muncipal revenues, but with
impming the effectiveness and efficiency of municipal service delivery. In
conjuncdon with this objective, a Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office (EMENA) study2' identified direct user charges and
betrment taxes as the pred sources of municipal finance, as these
confront final beneficiaries direcdy with the costs of municipal services, as
well as promoting accountability in resource allocation.
5.    The INURD review recommends that:
(a) The primary interlocutors for municipal finance reform
operations be at the nadtonal level, as the impact and
susinability of any local level reform depend on the
incentives provided by the national government to the
municipal governments.
(b)   Technical assistance for municipal finance projects be
explicitly action-oriented.
in the past, technical assistance often served as a substitute for reform; policy
confrontaions were avoided by defining the policy contat of projects solely
in terms of abstwact studies. In addition, the EMENA study (see para. 4)
notes that a strong central agency in charge of the decentralization process
has been key to the success of past refbrms.
6.    The review points out that in the context of municipal finance  form,
the Bank strves to fost accountability and tansparency, to encourwage the
clear identification of responsibilities at each level of government, and to
confront consumers with the real costs of the services they enjoy. All such
actons usually have clear short-tenn political costs and only longer-term,
intangible benefits. Because of the resulting political difficulties inherent in
municipal finance reform the Bank must:
(a) Plan for long term, multiple project investments and sustained
policy dialogue with the central government.
8 The Aneual ReOgt of INURD, Report No. 10832, 1992.
2/ Decetralizaton and Reform of the State: Issues and Options for Bank Assis
egr. EMENA Technical Deprtment Regional Discussion Paper, The World Bank,
September 1992.



32                         Annex B
(b)   Concentrate its reources on countnies where indtutional
development and decent aon are ady underway.
(c)   Devote more staff resources to municipal dvelopment
opaations than it has in the past.
7.    Finally, a review of Bank experence in the prwvision of technical
assiancew makes the following recommendations:
(a)   Document successul approaches to institutional deivelopment
and sbare them through seminars and an easily accesible,
rduarly updatd database.
(b)   Support expanded upstream institutional development wrk in
selected municip es or regions
(c)   UndaWe periodic instiutional assessments to develop an
organtional memory within the country, xami     the
functions, strengt, and weakmesses of, and linkages among,
levant institutions, as wdl as their legl and regulatory
fzamewrrs  and pmance incentives.
(d)   Asss the absorptive capaity of entities involved in
insttutional development to mimize the risk of over-
ambitious project design.
(e)   Carry out a mid-term review, followed by project design if
needed.
(O)   Promote multiple approaches to and instruments for the
support of complex institutional development mefom
(g)   Establish mechanim  for project eview to emphasize the
importance of sustanable lending.
/I Magnaun Techoical    ein= Ihe 1990s: Repot of the TchnicAi
Review Ti Fo4 (woring daft), WashnSton, D.C.: TIe Wodd Bank Aust 1991.



33                        Annex C
C. IPROJECr DESCRIION
1.   The project would consist of two institutional development
components, one focuLed on improving municipal management and the other
on stenghen    ie central governmenes capaity to implement effectvely
the de-etraliion reoms under.  The municipal/nadonal classicadon
in this section ree to th focus of he acdons described (i.e., on the
municipal or nadona lee), but not naril*  to which level would acally
exeute the acivitie of the g    ce. For example, epecially in the
inidal phase of proect ipementation, the centra project executng entity
might contc most or all of the activities imolved.
2.    The project would consist of the folUowing components and
subcomponents:
(a)   Munipal  stitutional Deelopment Componet (US$15.S
milion)j.l This component would include the following
subcomponents for the municipalities in the pilot project:
(i)   nrea MIcidal MW=n Dt I cmment (US$3.7
million), including:
a.    Preparation of Municipal Insitutional
Stengheig Pas (MISPs) for a11 25
muncipalites partcipating in the project
b.    Oranization and mangment improvement,
includig imprvemt of services to the public,
the development of simplified Iministrative
rocedures, and the implemention of methods
for increased pariipation by the public in
municipal affaims
c.    Strengthening municipal planning predures,
including procedures for the Plan de Desarnlo
Conwna.
d.   Human resowue planning, including the
development of a career and incentive strucure
witiin municipalities, the definition of taining
needs, and the s  ing of prsonnel
depamets.
C     Physical invstmt project implementation
m_anageent, including the desig of an
investnt project management sstem at the
If Al dolla aats iclu& Aliot   for contingeu    (m% in deA in Tale
2.1).



34                         Annex C
municipal level and technical assistance to help
municipalities maintain and operate the
infrastructure under their control.
f.    Sector-specific planning, for example, regrding
social programs, the administration of subsidies,
community services (e.g., street lighting,
garbage collection, park maintenance), health
services, and environmental protection. This
subcomponent would include the development of
strtegies to enable municipalities to assume
more effectively responsibilities in sectors that
have been or will be transferred to them.
g.    Pre-investment studies, including feasibility
studies for investment projects that ranscend a
single municipal jurisdiction, or that would
produce particularly good results in terms of
cost recovery, or that define other innovative
investments that would help municipalities
improve their overall performance.
(ii) Financial Managiment Strengthening (US$8.4 million),
including:
a.   Improved financial planning, including the
introduction of new financial planning
techniques and assistance to help municipalities
link capital and multi-annual budgets with their
development plans.
b.   Improved financial record-keeping, including the
introduction of expanded municipal accounts to
improve financial control and management
accountability.
c.    Design and implementation of multi-purpose
property cadastres, including the consolidation
of complete and current infbrmation about
ownership of land in the municipalities into a
municipal land register, to permit efficient
collection of the real estate tax and also for
land-use plhnning.
d.   Improved revenue collection, expense control,
and cost recovery strategies, including the
implementation of new procedures to enable
timely and complete collection of revenue, and
the identification of potential sources and



35                        Annex C
methods of cost recovery in the selected
municipalities.
(iii)  UMwiiDn ManagmM Infrmation Systeua (US$3.4
million), including:
a.    Management-oriented inbrmation systems.
These systems wwuld integrate infonnation from
the various sectors of a municipality (e.g.,
financial record-keeping and cadastres), and
would become the basis for a cohesive
management reporting system.
b.    Sector-specific information systems. The project
would support the specification, acquisition and
implementation of infbrmation systems needed to
address the management needs of specific
municipal sectors.
(b)   Nationdal   tional  vlopment Component (US$4.5
million)
(i)  National Infomation System on Munipa1itiu (US$2.2
million), including:
a.    National infrmation system. This
subcomponent would involve the design and
implementation of inmrements in the existing
nationwide information system on Chilean
miunicipalities, which would enable the
comparative evaluation of municipalities. The
feasibility of creating consolidated municipal
accounts (a complete and consistent set of
accounts for the municipal, regional and national
levels of government) woud be evaluated.
General guidelines for the development and
acquisition of information systems at the
municipal level would also be provided through
this subcomponent to ensure effective and
efficient information exchange.
b.    Municipal management prformance indicators
to be incorporated into a municipal rating
system. These performance indicators would be
used to rate municipalities by such criteria as
overall efficiency, fiscal discipline, cost
recovey, debt-carrying capacity, etc.



36                        Annex C
c.    Evaluation and monitoring system. This
subcomponent includes the definiton and
implementation of a methodology for eWluating
the impact of the project in terms of its
objectives as well as provwiding a continuous
assessment of the effectiveness of the project
execution process.
(ii)  Analysis of Policy Aftematives for Ipail
/alas        iia Eckils (US$1.1 million),
including:
a.    Analysis of policy altenatives for impvinig the
incentives in the nadonal/municipal trsfer
system for more efficient management at the
municipal level. This subcomponent would
analyze existing criteria for atl
national/municipal revenue tansfers (FNDR,
heath, education, recreation, etc.). It woud
seek to identify and analyze the efftiveness of
alternatives for imprving the incentives in these
tansfers for efficient management at the
municipal level. The feasibility of and
appropriate timing for the introduction of
changes would also be assessed. This study
would incluide an analysis of the causes of the
increase in municipal tnsfers for health and
education, and would mabe specific
recommendations on when and how to adjust
them.
b.    Analysis of policy altematives for improving the
performance of municipal emplcyees and
internal municipal oizatiOnal units.
Recommendations would be developed on
choices for possible system changes, and on the
appropriate process for their implemenlation.
This subcomponent would be done in
conjunction or close coordination with the
corresponding municipal subcomponent (see
pars. 2.a.i.d above).
c.    Multi-year financial plaming. This
subcomponent would examine national and
intenational experiences in multi-year financial
planning to produce a simple manual for use at
the municipal level. This subcomponent would
be done in conjunction or close coordination



37                        Annex C
with the corresponding municipal subcomponent
(see para. 2.a.ii.a above).
(iii)  Ebaluation of the Impact of Rgional and Stor
lovettns    Muipal Finanee (US$0.5 million),
including the analysis of:
a.   Impact of municipal investments in the areas of
health, education, housing, and infrastructure on
other current expenditures.
b.    Need for further coordination of these
investments within the public sector to prevent
negative effects on local development.
(iv)  Poect E&wutng Unit (US$0.7 million), including
management and operational strengthening. lbchnical
assistance would be required by the PEU related to its
responsibilities for project evaluation and review,
progress monitorng, procurement of consultants, goods
and services, and for certain subject areas (e.g.,
financial management and information technology).
Tuining of municipal staff, including the development of courses and
seminars is included in the respective components and subcomponents
of the MlSPs. Ihe PEU would be responsible for identifying the best
management and optional practices, both within Chilean
municipalities and interationally, and for facilitating the
dissemination of these praces to municipalities and other appropriate
organizations.



38                        Annex D
IX PROJECI SUPERVISION AND MONIIORING
1.   Monitoring and evaluation are particularly important to this project as
it is a pilot opeation. This annex describes the reporting requirements for
supervising and monitoring the progress of project implementation. For a
description of the system for monitoring and evauating municipal
management performance and general project impact, to be carried out by the
Project Executing Unit (PEU), see Annex F.
Reportng
2.    Routine monitoring of the progress of project implementaion requires
the issuing of a number of reports in compliance with Bank regulations.
These include: (i) quarterly progress reports; (ii) a mid-term evaluation of the
project; (iii) a Project Completion Report; and (iv) an analysis of the results
and impact of the project ("Pilot Evaluation") (see Annex F). The prgress
reports to be submitted to the Bank will be based on the same information as
the reports prepared by the PEU for its own needs. Following the mid-term
evaluation, to be done jointly by the Bank and the Goernment at the middle
of the second year of project implementation, any necessary changes in
project implementation would be introduced.
3.    All reports should examine progress in implementing: (i) the
Municipal Institutional Development component, including improements in
municipal management and municipal finance, establishment of municipal
informaion systems, and training of municipal staff; and (ii) the National
Institutional Development component, including improvements in the national
information system on municipalities, improvements in incentives in the
nationalmunicipal transfer system, and evaluation of the impact of regional
and sector imvestments on muncipal finances. The reports should also
examine (iii) the management of the PEU, including its administration and
financial management, the procurement and contracting of consulting
services, the management and coordination of training progams, the process
of disseminating best practices, and municipal perfomance evaluations. In
addition, the reports should comment on (iv) compliance with all legal
covenants.
4.    As an aid to supervision and monitoring, and as a basis for the
qualitative evaluation sections, reports may include matrices with the
following data (i) the number of prediagnostics, diagnostics, and MISPs
initiated and completed to date; (ii) the number of subprojects and
corresponding consulting assignments initiated and completed by each
municipality to date; and (iin) the number of consulting assignments for
national actions and studies initiated and completed to date



39                                Annex D
Supervislon
5.      In addition to reportng requirements, the progress of project
implementation   ould be monitored through bi-annual missions to Chile,
complemented by the quarterly proess reports and by periodic visits (at
least once a year) to WAshington by lky officials from the PEU. The first
Bank supervision mission would be a wproject launch wrkshop'. For a
tentative Supervision Plan of Bank missions, see ¶Ibble D. 1.
Table  I1  Supervion P1a
nDa                hudanb                         Min O*di
ApuMq 1994   Th*k MAnr (aa                 Lmoh Seminalr
OpettOn Spiada
pw_mSpwk
Dsbuewi Offlcer
ssIoet 15   Vby PbUym   sff                Detil vw of t- dffultIes
:ow/Dec 1995   Ta Man                     Revie sabe of WUnefpmn ofprucnn
OpestLcs Specialist         pucedu," of acmatg pnedums, and of
MusICs AdmW"iuh on          Putn Rs.  f
iAWAjV 1995    hk Mn                       Dtae evie of pwSam in ;W iun as w
MuidMAdnidtios
JmiJ* 1995   Vsi by MU staff to  asanu    Revi; of po   an  dUficu  o data; d&nOn
of equired actiom
SepOct 1995   TkM& Manae                   Md-s Reim
(06e  s reurd
PtAw 196   Ihk MAar                        Supevisio ash as rqutd
(odhs as requited
JJ*  1996   Vis by PMU stff to Vsbton    Deaed rviw of imp_em
SqOt996   ITAM _nager                      Genl supeiso aN dicso of Pea
(othe as equied)            C        RUIKRP (



40                         Annex E
E ORGANIZATION OF PROJECT IMPLENMNTATION
ResponshiItIe of the PEU
1.    A Project Executing Unit (PEU) has been established to maage
prqect implemenion. The PEU reports within the Municipal Division of
SUB3DERE (see Chart E.1).
2.    The PEU will have the folowing responibilities:
(a)   Tb assist municipalites in the fomulaon and implemenlaton
of the MIPs.
(b)   lb review and approve the MISPS, agreements with the
mwuncipelites and specific municipal insdtutional dedopment
subpMroects.
(c)   To implement the national instituonal development
subprject.
(d)   Tb monitor and evaluate all prqect elements and the project's
impact on the municipalis pefoirmance and, if requird, to
formlate and implement adjustments
(e)   lb monitor, eWaluate and consolidate all penent prect
epeiences and ecomndations for use in expanding this
pilot project to al of Chile's mic ev
(t)   lb prepare periodic progress reports for the GCvnment and
the Bank based on moniting and valuation carried out
according to points (d) and (e).
(g)   lb procre goods and services for all national institutional
development subprojectL
(h)   lb coordinate with the concerned govenment agencies,
partidcularly the Ministry of Finance.
(i)   lb coordinate within the SUBDERE conceing matters
affecting the municipalities' management and finances.
Oj)   lb identify and disseminate the most scesful pactices.
bIternal Orgaon of the PEU
3.    A tentaive org tion structwe and saffling have been proposed for
the PEUJ. Te PBU will have a total of 15 staff. Genera managment will
be pnwided by the Genera Coordhiat and an opeations manae, to whom
three groups will repor



41                         Amnex E
4.    The Project Adinis on  urop wil be responsible for genesal
admidstMve suport, offce services,  cretai support, and the financial
aspect of proec  mnpoets and subprojec  (eg., rord-kig ad
financial control and reporting). The goup will include to accountants,
two secretre, and an offilce clerk.
S.    A group of ix institutional development cordinato  will assist the
municipaliies assined to them to dvelop their Municipal Institutional
Strengtheing Plans (MlSPs) and to COOdinat the vious activities of the
prqct that flow from the planL Assignment of municipaliies ill occur
eady on in the prqect. It is anticipated ta each coordinator wil be
assigned 4 to S of the 25 pilot municialite
6.    A grop of two secialists will be responSible for supevsing all
aspects of the national studies and sub-projec



42                                 Annex E
Chart E.1  Organoaton of the M istry of Interior
Ministry of
Interior
f                            I ~~~~~~~~~Secretary of
Seretary of   *Regioaal
Interior                                               DOvolopmnt and
A..ulistratlon
modernizatlon and                  Regonal
Administ ratilon               Deve lopmntDllslo
Reform Division                  Division                            Ion 
Project Execution
-



43                        Annex F
F. MONITORING AND EVALUATION STRATEGY
1.    Monitoring and evaluation are particularly important to this prject as
it is being undertan on a pilot basis. Specifically, monitoring and
evaluation information ftom the pilot project is required to:
(a)   Measure the prgress of the project, including progress on the
legal covenants regading project execution monitoring.
(b) Satisfy the Bank's project supervision needs.
(c)   Assess the impact of the project. This information will ensure
that future expansion of the project concentrates on items
which have been shown to provide the greatest benefits
(d) Establish a base of experience on the strengths and weaknesses
of pilot execution so that the project may, in the future, be
expanded in the most efficient and effective manner.
This annex addrsses only points (c) and (d). For a discussion of points (a)
and (b), see Annex D.
2.   In addition to monitoring the progress of project implementation, as
xplained in Annex D, the Project Executing Unit (PEU) will work with
cosltants to design and implement an evluaton system to measure
municipal perfmace mmagement and to ayze project impact. The
monitoring and evaluation tasks will provide the PEU with important
perience for future projects of a similar kdnd. Monitoring and eWaluation
activities to be undertaken, and data to be produced by the evaluation systm,
will be recorded in the Monitoing and Ewaluation section of the Project
Manual, the maintenance of which will be one of the responsibilities of the
PEU.
3.    The principal users of the evaluation results will be: (a) the mayors of
the participating municipalities; (b) the Prqject Executing Unit; (c) the
Gwvenment of Chile (the Borrower), including the Ministry of Hacienda
(DireccOn de Presupuesto) and the Ministry of the Interior (SUBDERE); (d)
inmes and consejos regionaes; and (e) the Bank. Data provided by the
evaluation system will enable these users to answer questions from the point
of view of both project impact and execution, such as: "What went well, and
why?" and "What did not go well, and why?".
Scope of the Pilot Evaluation
4.    The scope of the pilot evaluation includes:
(a)   Evaluation of Project Inpact and Result, an asmet of
the outcomes of various stages of project implementation, i.e.,
evaluating the impact of the project on municipal and national



44                        Annex F
institutional development in support of the goals of Chile's
decentralization reforms. The information provided by this
evaluation will be critical for management decisions on such
issues as whether to extend the project to all remaining
municipalities, or which components of the project should be
curtailed or expanded.
(b)   Evaluation of the Project Execution lProess Periodic
evaluations of the project execution process, as outlined in
Annex D, will assist the PEU and the Chilean government in
adjusting the execution arrangements as required.
5.    The stategy for evaluating project imlpac will include the definition
of management objectives and related peformance indicator  Evaluation
will focus on a variety of organization levels at which project impact may be
felt, including the level of an individual project component in an individual
municipality; of an individual project component in most or aU of the pilot
municipalities; of all components within one municipality or within a subset
of municipalities with similar characteristics; and of the pilot prqect as a
whole (all components in all participating municinalities). Evaluation will
focus on different pkazai of the project, including the project start-up phase,
and on phases during which project components are being implemented. In
addition, evaluation will focus on different levels of  within each
municipality, including the level of the municipal director and the mayr, as
well as on the national level of management.
6.    The process of evaluation will use different kinds of indicators to
measure project impact, including cfalnesand quaIlt measures (e.g.,
the percentage of applicants satisfied with the service of the building pernit
application process); engr measures (e.g., the average processing cost
for building permit applications); and  and demand measures (e.g.,
the number of building permit applications handled or building inspections
undertakn).
7.    Subject to detiled design by consultants in conjunction with the PEU,
it is expected that the Monitoring and EWaluation section of the Proect
Manual will include definitions of:
(a)   Management objectives.
(b)   Performance indicators.
(c)   Control group(s) and how they will be used.
(d)   Ifrmation required and its source(s).
(e)   How to obtain the required information.



45                         Annex F
(t)   Other implementation requirements (e.g., training, and forms
completion).
(g)   Considerations on how to interpret the evaluation results.
8.    Evaluation of the project execution   =sS will require information
on the progress of individual project components (e.g., against planned time
frames and cost estimates), on the progress being achieved in the
procurement and contracting of consulting services, on the number of training
proms run and the number and sources of attendees, and on how many
"best practices3 have been identified and disseminated.
The Design of the Evaluation System
9.    The PEU will contract consulting services for both the design and the
implementation of the ewaluation system. Terms of reference for such an
asignment have been developed, encompassing three stages:
(a) Design of the evaluation system to address the identified needs
for impact and project execution monitoring and evaluation.
(b)   Undertaking initial ('benchmark") measurements to understand
the current situation in:
(i) Participating municipalities.
(ii) A control group of municipalities (all remaining
municipalities or a selected group of comparable
municipalities).
(c)   Undertaing actual evaluation activities during and after the
execution of components of the project.
10.  In addition to its main purpose of providing a basis for decisions
regrding epanded project activities, the eWluation information to be
collcted and analyzed may have fiurther uses in such tasks as:
(a) Clarification of accountability.
(b) Resource allocation.
(c)   Budget formulation and justification.
(d)   Progrm/project evaluation, analysis, and selection.
(e)   Employee motivation (feedback).
(f)   Contactng of services based on performance criteria (e.g.,
minimum quality levels, financial incentives).



46                         Annex F
(g)   Ensuring proper relationships between effectiveness and
efficiency (e.g., service quality and unit cost data).
(O)   Management decisions on individual municipal progrms.
()   Communication between cidzens and local government
officials
The performance Indicators may eventally be used to assess municipal
entitlement to cetmin central govenment funding, allocated as a rward for
outstaig performance. The indtrs will also provide input for the
craon of a rating system for the purpose of assessing municipal debt
capacy, should it be decided to introduce such a policy in the fut.
11.  The success of the evaluation system will be demonstated by:
(a)   Its immediate applicability by the PEU.
(b)   Its reliability (i.e., it measures what it is supposed to
measure).
(c)   The unambiguity of the information it provides.
(d)   Its applicability in different phases of the project (e.g., shortly
after the completion of an individual component, or afte the
completion of all components in one muncity, or after the
completion of the pilot project itselO.
(e)   Its feasibility from a cost/benefit point of view.
(f)   Its objectivity.
12. The following will need to be taken into account when designing the
evaluation system:
(a)   The need to distinguish consequences due to different
variables, such as:
(i)  The degree of particpation and commitment of the
municipal staff.
(ii) The effectiveness of the consultants.
(iii) Unforeseen events (e.g., a change of key personnel, or
an emergency in the municpality).
(iv)  The impact of other initiatives (e.g., a naional priject
in a particular area, or own municipal initiatives being
caried out during the same period of time).



47                        Annex F
(b)   The diffeint degrees of management impwement ptm1ia1 in
different municipalities, due to different municipal conditions
at the saof the poject.
(c)   Participation in the project at different levels of inten   in
different municipalitia (they may execute many or only a few
pnject cogmonents, depending upon their current capacity or
desire tD prepare for and to implement change).



48                        Anne O
G. PROJECT AMANUAL
1.   It was agreed Pr the Projet Manual would be divided into tmain
parts, the first covering the internal procedures of the PEU, and the second
coeing everytbing that those at the municipal level (e.g., mayors and
muncipal offtcials, etc.) would need to know for effective participation in the
project.
2.   Following are the elements that should be included In the Project
Manual.
(a)   Introduction
(b)   Brief Description of the Project
(i)  Introduction
(ii) Objectives
(iii) Components
a. Municipal Institutional Development
b. National Institutional Development
(tv) Participating Entities and Beneficiaries
(v)  Costs
(vi)  Financing
(vii) Global Execution Schedule
(c)   Project Operation
(i)  Handling and Tlnsfer of Resources
a.  Special Account for the Project
b. Municipal Accounts
c.  Direct Payments by Bank
d.  Bank Disbursements
(ii) Participating Municipalities
a. Irvitation, Confirmation and Basic Infomnation
b.  Participadon Agreement
(iii) Institutional Development Process
a.  Municipal Counterpart
b.  Diagnosis
c.  Agreement on Conditions
d. Evaluation of Compliance on Conditions
e. Municipal Institutional Stregtfhening Plan and
Subprojects
f.  Implementation and/or Execution Agrmenfts
g. Municipal Istitutional Strengthening Plan
Implementation and Subproject Execution
(iv)  Municipal Institutional Stngtheing Pln
a.  Typical Content
b.  Execution Arrangements and Stage
c.  Evaluation and Approval
d. Monitoring and Supervision



49                        Annex G
(v)  Municipal Subcomponents
a.  Sectors and lypical Objectives
b. Execution Format and Stages
c.  Evluation and Approval
d.  Monitoring and Supervision
(vi) National Subcomponents
a.  National Actions and Studies
b.  Proposals with General Application to the
Municipalities
(d)   Contracting and Procurement
(i) Selection and Contracting of Consultants
(ii) Contracting and Procurement of Goods
(e)   Monitorng, Evaluation and Audiing
(i) Monitoring and Evaluation
a. Progress Monitoring
b. Impact Evaluation
(ii) Auditing
a. Supervision
b. External Audits
(f)   Project Executing Unit
(i) Responsibilities
(ii)  Duties and lss
Oii)  Oipnization
(iv) PNsonnel
(v) Equipment
(vi) Goods and Sevices



SO                             Annex H
H. ESTIMTED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEIENMS
Table H.1 Disburseent Schedule
(miUions of US dollars)
Calendar      rawul                                         CiUnti
VW          Yea       Quate EAdig  Quart r   FY   TWtd   % of Total
1224        1994       Mar 31, 1994    0.20    0.40   0.20        2
1994        1994       Jun 30, 1994     0.20           0.40       4
1994                   Sep 30, 1994     0.S5    3.10   0.90       9
1994        199        Dec31, 1994     0.60            1.50      IS
19S         1995      Msr 31,1995      1.00           2.S0      25
1995        199S       Jun 30,1995      1.00           3.50      35
1995                   Sep 30, 1995     1.20    S.00   4.70      47
199         1996       Doc31, 199S      1.20           5.90      S9
2991i       1996       Mar 31, 1996     1.40           7.30      73
1996        1996       Jun 30, 1996     1.20           8.50      8S
1996         1997      Sep 30, 1996    0.90    1.50   9.40       94
1996        1997       Dec 31, 1996    0.60           10.00      100



51                         Annex I
L SELECIED DOCUMENN  IN PROJECT FILE
Project Executing Unit (PEU)
(a)   "El Prestario y el Ejecwor" (prepared by the PEU, June
1993)
(b)   Summary documents (prepared by the PPU, July 1993) and
planning documents (prepared by Roberto Samayoa,
consultant)
(i)  'Conclwiones y recomendaciones para la etapa de
ejecucidn del proyecto piloto de fortilecim
nucidpal" (prepared by the PPU, June 1993)
(ii) 'Tareas realizadas por la Unidad de Preparaci6n de
Pryecto pama el Progrma de Fvralecimieno
Institucional Mumcipalw (pWpare by the PPU, June
1993)
(iii)  "P?yecto de Fortalecimiento instiuciona Munkipal
(PFIM). Notas para la preparacion del pmyecto"
Iwepared by the PPU and Roberto Samayoa,
consultant)
(iv) "Notas parm la inplementacidn del progrwna'
(prepared by Roberto Samayoa, consultant, March
1993)
(c)   Ayuda Memoria, Mayo 1993 (Subsecretario Gonzalo
Martner y el Ministerio de Hacienda)
(d)   "Fonnto de Convenio entre la Mumcipalidad y la Unidad
Ejecutora del Programa" (prpared by the PPU and Roberto
Samayoa, consultant)
(e)   Mal on project methodology
(i) "Piepuesia de metodolog(a pemnanente" (document
prepared by the Ministry of Finance, May 1993)
(ii)  "Avw,ce metodoldgico" (March 1993)
(iii) "Fstado de Avance- Desarrollo Metodoldgicou
(iv)  "Metodolog(a de Diagn6stko' (January 1993)



52                         Annex I
(f)   Schematic on Central Coordination and Planning (prpared by
consultants Mat Andersson and Bob Ashford)
2.    Municipalities
(a)    Selecci4n de comuws e indicadores de gesinnfinanciera"
(prepred by the PPU)
(b)   Outines on municipal contacts
(i) Introduction of the pilot project to the mayors (one
page) (suggested contents by Mats Andesson)
(li)  Examples of elibility criteria (one page) (suggestions
by Mats Andersson)
(iii) Schematics of municipal institutional development
(prepared by consultants Mats Andersson and Bob
Ashford)
3.   lbrms of Refmrence (MR)
(a) Initial Municipal Development Actions (Draft TOR)
(1) Deelopment of Municipal Institutional Strengthening
Plans (Mls) ('TUndnnos T&cnvos de Rpencla-
Plan de Desarrollo Insdtudonaipara Muwcipaldades)
(ii) National Information System on Municipalities
Project
(iii) Staff Thining and Development (Draft TOR and Letter
of Invitation)
0)   Project Evaluation and Monitoring System (Draft IOR and
Letter of Invitation))
4.    Diagnostics
(a)    Reuntones en Mudciplos Reglonares" (Ma 1993) (Pte-
dlagndcos reazados en 6mniclpalade por PPUfuem de
la ReglIn Metropolia Roncagua, Lolol, mnilla,
Cartagena, El Tabo,  Mb del Mar, Lora)
(b)   Case materl from the Municipality of Conchalf
(1)  "Pka de finaleckmeno Mwucipal" (drft)



53                         Annex I
ii) "Subproyeao Sistema Inegrado de
Prsupuesto/Contabilidaf (draft TOR)
(iii) 'Subproyecto Sistema de Ifonnaci6n Sodal"
(draft TOR)
(c)   *Dlagndsacos en Co Mwdcpalidas: La Pinta, El
Bosque, Maipg, Isla de Malpo" (pdpre by the PPU,
February/March 1993)
(d)   "Dagid.co en la Mwiucpaidad de San Jaqu" (prepared
by tie PPU, Januay 1993)
5.    Project Components
(a)   "Plan de Desarrollo bIsd*ulonal- Subproyectos Muwddpales.
Perles y Tbmdnos de referencia tpo pam subproyedos
(seprate blue book)
a.    Relacldn entre subproyectos e indicadores de
gestd6n
b.    Trndnnos de wrnrencla para el Plan de
Desarrollo
C.   Instucnal
d.   Trnmnos de refermnda dpo para subpryectos
(prepared by the PPU and Swedish consiltants,
June 1993)
(b)    Fxtudos- Acfvdades GlobaWs, Subproyects mwdcpaks"
PeRfles y T6nnlnos de Rferenda dpo (repared by the PPU
and Swedish consultants, June 1993)
(c)   "Oferta del Programa a los Mwuddpios"; "CapadW n y
doij n del progrma" (proposal prepared by the PPU)
(d)   Subproject descrptions on infbrmation Wstems designs
(i)  ISlma de rnformadn inandera mwucipal- Diselow
(prepared by K. Thamstrom, June 10, 1993)
(i)  "Lneamlentos generaes paM la gest6nJnanlem
nicipal (pepared by I. Umansky, June 7, 1993)
(ifi)  "Sistema de informacidn socil nuaidpal- Disefto
(prepared by K. Tharnstrom, June 10, 1993)



54                         Annex I
(iv)  'Sistema de ifjomtcidn gerencal muwipal- Diseflo"
(prepared by K. Tharnstrom, June 10, 1993)
(e)   Summary reerence material relative to project component
(prepared by Mats Andersson, consultant)
(i) "Project Components and Subprojects" (one page)
(cross-reference to other lists of subprojects)
(ii) "Notes on subproject evaluation ex ante' (two pages)
(iui) -Nols sobre el Plan Insttuclonarw (six pages)
(iv) "Diagndsdcos- Acciones Potencials" (two pages)
(matnz de subproyectos y acciones potecals)
(v)   National training subproject" (fbur pages)
(t)   Tmuwos de Werenaa par estiios generaes (pred by
the PPU)
a.     Diseflo del manual de acceso a fondos
pablicos"
b.    sCooinaci6n inwrmunicpal`
c.    -Sistema de firnf acl6n nunicipda
6.    National Information System
(a)   'Prigruam (SISAU)J: Sistema de Segumiento de Accionar
Municipal (developed by Sandro Raggi, consultant to the
PPU, May 1993)
(b)   "0omne de Lars-Olof Andersson, Consultor" (rabajo
realirdo en Chile del 27 de abzil al 12 de mayo 1993)"
(c)   Departamento de iormarizacidn (document developed by the
systems department within SUBDERE)
(d)   "Lista de mddulos municipales potenciales de iVonimdca"
(two pages) (by Mats Andersson, consultant)
7.    Ewaluation System
(a)   "Efiaencia y poducvidad del secor piblico: Alguas notas
sobre Indicadores de gesd6n y medidas de productividad"
(prepared by Sra. Carmen Celeddn, Ministerio de Eacienda)



55                         Annex I
(b) "Municipal Government: Program Performance Evaluation
Methodology" (material prepared by Robert Ashford,
consultant)
(c)   Draft material for TOR: "Design of an Evaluation System for
the Pilot Project: Fortalecimiento Municipal" (pepared by
Mats Andersson, consultant)
8.    Other
(a)   Organigrama- Subsecretar(a de Desarrollo Regional y
Administntivo
(b)   "Plan Comunl - Conceptos y Lineamientos" (draft) (mateial
prepared by Swedish consultants)
(c)   "Alteniwvas bdsicas para elfinadamtento y administiucidn de
la inversidn municipal (prepared by Sm. Carmen Celed6n,
Ministerio de Hacienda)



>mo  ~~~~~~~~~~~Z 
25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



