Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3668 CH
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Development Pilot Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 26, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3668 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 26, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read: 
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Central Bank" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de 
Chile);
(b)
"Municipal Strengthening Plan" means the institutional strengthening plan 
of a Participating Municipality, satisfactory to the Bank, which identifies the main 
management problems of such Municipality and the Subprojects to be carried out under 
such Plan, their objectives, expected results or outputs, cost estimates and budgets, 
counterpart resources, evaluation criteria and  performance indicators, institutional 
arrangements and responsibilities, and key dates and timetables for their 
implementation, as such Plan may be revised from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower, through PEU, and the Participating Municipality, with the prior approval of 
the Bank;
(c)
"Participating Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Participating Municipality" means any municipality or municipal 
association, acceptable to the Bank, which meets the eligibility criteria under the 
Project Manual to participate in the carrying out of Part A of the Project;
(e)
"PEU" means the Project executing unit referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
regulate: (i) the internal functioning of PEU, and (ii) the relations between PEU and 
the Participating Municipalities,
containing the terms of reference for Municipal Strengthening Plans, the eligibility 
criteria for Subprojects, the operational procedures for the carrying out  of 
Subprojects, the institutional  arrangements within such Municipalities, and the 
supervision, monitoring and evaluation procedures for Subprojects;
(g)
"Subproject" means any of the projects, under Part A.2, A.3 and A.4 of 
the Project, which shall have been approved by PEU in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Manual;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"SUBDERE" means the Borrower's Subsecretariat of Regional Development and 
Administration (Subsecretaria de Desarrollo Regional y Administrativo), within the 
Borrower's Ministry of the Interior.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of ten million Dollars ($10,000,000), 
Page  3
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued 
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
Page  4
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part B of the Project, and shall, through the Participating Agreements, cause the 
Participating Municipalities to carry out Part A of the Project, all with due 
diligence and efficiency, in accordance with the Project Manual and the Municipal 
Strengthening Plans, and in conformity with appropriate economic, administrative, 
management, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with each Participating 
Municipality, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the Participating 
Agreements), providing, inter alia,
for:
(i)
the transfer, when applicable, to the Participating Municipality 
of the portion of 
the Loan and the Borrower's counterpart funds 
allocated for such Municipality's 
Municipal Strengthening 
Plans and Subprojects; 
(ii)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to prepare the 
Municipal 
Strengthening Plan and to carry out its 
Subprojects as provided in this Agreement, 
to comply, in respect of 
its Municipal Strengthening Plan and Subprojects, with the 
provisions of 
Sections 3.02, 3.03 and 4.01 of this Agreement, and to cooperate, as 
needed, with the Borrower in the carrying out of Part B of the
Project;
(iii)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to appoint a 
Project coordinator 
for purposes of liaison between the 
Participating Municipality and PEU;
(iv)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to provide, 
promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for its Subprojects; 
and
 
(v)
the obligation of the Participating Municipality to designate the 
Borrower, through 
PEU, as its agent for purposes of procuring goods and 
consultants' services for its 
Subprojects, in the cases referred to in 
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Participating Agreements 
in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, waive or terminate such Agreements 
or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower, through PEU, shall carry out, on behalf of the 
Participating Municipalities, the procurement of goods and consultants' services, 
Page  5
which, as provided in the Project Manual: (i) requires a common approach for the 
implementation of the Subprojects of different Participating Municipalities; or (ii) 
may be carried out more efficiently by the Borrower, through PEU.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance, respectively), in 
respect of Municipal Strengthening Plans and Subprojects, shall be carried out by the 
Participating Municipalities as provided in the Participating Agreements.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project:
(i)
a special council, with membership structure (including 
representatives of SUBDERE 
and the Direccion de Presupuesto of the 
Borrower's Ministry of Finance), functions 
and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of determining and 
coordinating the main policies in respect of the Project and supervising the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(ii)
a Project executing unit, within SUBDERE, with functions and 
responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank (PEU), including, 
inter alia:
(A)
coordination of the execution of the Project, and assistance 
to the
Participating Municipalities in the preparation and 
implementation of their 
respective Municipal Strengthening 
Plans, in accordance with the Project 
Manual;
 
(B)
procurement of goods and selection of consultants under Part 
B of the 
Project, and for certain Subprojects, pursuant 
to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement;
 
(C)
approval of the Municipal Strengthening Plans and 
Subprojects, in accordance 
with the provisions of the 
Project Manual;
(D)
subject to the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
review and 
approval of all the procurement of goods and 
selection of consultants 
carried out by the Participating 
Municipalities under Part A of the Project; 
and
 
(E)
preparation of the reports referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement, 
and Section 9.07 (c) of the General 
Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that PEU is at all times headed by a Project 
manager with qualifications, experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(c)
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the discharge of the functions of PEU.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review 
and comments:
(a)
by no later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31, of each 
year during the execution of the Project, a report on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project, with regard to the quarters ending December 31, March 
31, June 30 and September 30, respectively, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank may reasonably request, based on the indicators, set forth in the Project Manual, 
for the evaluation of the progress of the Project during the respective period; and
(b)
by no later than January 31 of each year of Project implementation, a 
Page  6
report on the overall progress achieved in the execution of the Project during the 
preceding calendar year, based on indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, about the 
impact of the Project on the Participating Municipalities, any such report to be 
disseminated among such Municipalities and other interested entities, after 
incorporating any comments of the Bank therein.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
by no later than December 31, 1995, undertake a review, in conjunction 
with the Bank, of the progress achieved in the execution of the Project and the 
attainment of its objectives, any such review to be based upon the reports previously 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(b)
promptly take all remedial action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or the attainment of its 
objectives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain and cause the Participating 
Municipalities to maintain, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of: (i) Part B of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part B; and (ii) Part A of the Project, of 
the Participating Municipalities.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
Page  7
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation or restriction to any of the provisions of this 
Agreement, the audit referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall also include:
(a)
a report on the compliance of the obligations of the Borrower and the 
Participating Municipalities under this Agreement and under the Participating 
Agreements, including an assessment of
the fulfillment of the eligibility criteria for Subprojects, as established in the 
Project Manual; and
(b)
a letter to PEU identifying major deficiencies in the carrying out of the 
Project and making recommendations for improvement therein.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that any of the parties to a 
Participating Agreement shall have not
complied with its respective obligations therein set forth.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that PEU shall have been staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
 
(b)
that at least five Participating Agreements shall have been entered into 
between the parties thereto;
(c)
that the Bank shall have approved terms of reference for contracts in 
connection with Municipal Strengthening Plans, Subprojects and/or the carrying out of 
Part B of the Project estimated to cost, in the aggregate, the equivalent of not less 
than $500,000; and
(d)
that the Project Manual shall have been put into effect.
 
Section 6.02. The date April 26, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Teatinos 120
Santiago, Chile
Page  8
Telex:
241334 MHDA-CH
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Treasurer General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Authorized Representative
Countersigned on behalf
  of the Controller General
  of the Republic of Chile
By /s/ Patricio Silva Echenique
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods                     3,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
(2)  Consultants'              7,000,000        50%
     services and
     training
                              __________
     Total                    10,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made:
(a)
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be 
made on account of payments made
for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1993; and
(b)
for goods or consultants' services under Part A of the Project, unless 
the corresponding Participating Agreement shall have been entered into between the 
parties thereto.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for goods and 
consultants' services to cost less than $150,000 and $100,000 equivalent, 
respectively, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase the institutional and 
technical capacity of the Participating Municipalities to carry out the activities 
under their legal responsibility, by: (i) enhancing their ability to generate 
revenues; and (ii) increasing their capability to program, finance,
execute, operate, maintain, and monitor economically and financially sound expenditure 
programs; and (b) improve the Borrower's capacity to accomplish its main macroeconomic 
goals at the municipal level, through the design of incentives for increased 
efficiency and fiscal discipline in the national/municipal resource transfer system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Page  10
Part A:
Municipal Institutional Development
 
1.
Preparation of Municipal Strengthening Plans.
 
2.
Carrying out of Subprojects for management improvement of the Participating 
Municipalities, consisting of the enhancement of municipal organizational structure, 
improvement of services to the public, adoption of sector-specific and human resource 
planning procedures, and pre-investment studies.
3.
Carrying out of Subprojects for financial management strengthening of the 
Participating Municipalities, including improvement of financial planning and 
record-keeping, revenue collection, expense control and cost recovery strategies, and 
the design and implementation of a multi-purpose property cadastre.
4.
Carrying out of Subprojects for the establishment of management information 
systems in the Participating Municipalities, including management-oriented information 
systems and sector-specific information systems.
Part B:
National Institutional Development
 
1.
Upgrading of the national information system on municipalities, and 
establishment of a system to rate municipalities on the basis of identified management 
performance indicators.
2.
(a)
Carrying out of studies on policy alternatives for improving national, 
regional and municipal fiscal relations, mainly in the areas of: (i) the resource 
transfer system to municipalities;
(ii) municipal management performance; and (iii) municipal multi-year financial 
planning.
(b)
Evaluation of the impact of regional and sector investments on municipal 
finances.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1999
through   September 1, 2010
415,000
 
On March 1, 2011
455,000
 
Page  11
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as
a percentage per annum) appli-
cable to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not 
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the 
Guidelines).
1.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 
of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid 
evaluation.
2.
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower shall 
use or cause to be used relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
Page  12
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used standard bidding documents 
based on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
3.
Computer equipment shall be procured, when appropriate, under a two-step 
procedure, satisfactory to the Bank, for technical and price bids, as provided in the 
last sentence of paragraph 2.7 of the
Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Chile may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $350,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent to $600,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; (ii) the first three contracts to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section; (iii) all contracts estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more; and (iv) the first three contracts to be 
awarded by each of the first three Participating Municipalities, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the 
Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of 
such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and the Participating Municipalities in the 
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants 
Page  13
Guidelines).
2.
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be 
employed such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultant's services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been 
agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used other standard forms agreed with 
the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each (other than the first three such contracts under the Project). However, this 
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such 
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, 
to assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, to 
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, 
and to the first three contracts to be awarded by PEU.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective 
Page  14
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for Eligible 
Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),(b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
