Dotmt of
The World Bank
FOt OMCIAL USE ONLY
MlGRPOF'IC$ 1;COPY
Report l0. iO211-H&I Typet (PCR)
SAP.H19NT0,/ X31680 / T9032/ OEDIAl                           Ripm o. 10211
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRM, PEISE IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 1343-M1)
DECEMBER 31, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ased bv necipients only in the performance of
theit official duties. Its contentss may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authoriation,



CURRENCYEOIALENTS
Fiscal Yar                U               Malawi Kwach (MK)
1982/83                 1.0                     1.09
1983/84                 1.0                     1.23
1984/85                 1.0                     1.49
1985/86                 1.0                     1.76
1986/87                 1.0                     1.95
1987/88                 1.0                     2.30
1988/89                 1.0                     2.61
1989/90                 1.0                     2.70
1990/91                 1.0                     2.55
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I hectare (ha) = 10,000 square meters
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADD                Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC              Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CADO                Chief Agricultural Development Officer (MOA)
CARO                Chief Agricultural Research Officer (MOA)
CTO                 Chief Technical Officer
CVO                Chief Veterinary Officer (MOA)
DH                  Dedza Hills (RDP)
DLVW                Department of Lands, Valuation and Water
DS                  Deputy Secretary
DTC                 Day Training Center
EPA                 Extension Planning Area (part of an RDP)
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP              FAO.'World Bank Cooperative Program
FC                  Farm Club
Ha                  Hectare
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
IDA                 International Development Agency
LADD                Lilongwe Agricultural Development Division
LH                  Land Husbandry
LHA                 Land Husbandry Assistant
L-NE                LOlongwe Northeast (RDP)
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
MOWS                Ministry of Works and Supplies
NARP                National Agricultural Research Project
NEAPS               National Extension and Agricultural Planning Support Project
NRDP                National Rural Development Program
PCR                Project Completion Report
PM                 Program Manager (Head of an ADD)
PPAR               Project Performance Audit Report
RDP                Rural Development Project (part of an ADD)
RTC                Residential Training Center
SACA               Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
STO                Senior Technical Officer
TO                 Technical Officer
VA                 Veterinary Assistant
WD                  Water Department (MOWS)
WP                 Water Point



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
06Ze ni N*C!(-.*W1
OpsfAtWm Evakatitm
December 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Malawi - National Rural
Develoiment Program. Phase IV Proiect (Credit 1343-MAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Malawi - National Rural Development Program, Phase IV
Project (Credit 1343-MAI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizstion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP). PHASE IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 1343-MAI)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface  .............................  i
Evaluation Summary .............................  iii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity .............................  1
2.    Background .............................   1
The Agricultural Sector ................................ 1
The Agricultural Development Strategy ............................  2
3.    Project Objectives and Description .............................    2
4.    Project Design and Organization ...............................  2
5.    Project Implementation ...................................... 4
Extension Services.                                                         5
Training.                                                                   6
Research.                                                                   6
Horticulture ............................................. 6
Land Husbandry .......................................... 7
Veterinary Services and Livestock Production ......................... 7
Credit.                                                                     8
Markets.                                                                    9
Water Supplies.                                                             9
Project Administration .10
Procurement .10
6.    Project Results and Inpact .............          ...............  10
Crop Production ............................   11
Credit ..............................                                      13
Livestock Development ..........            ..................   13
Social Services ............................   13
Environment ............................   13
Strengthening Project Administration  ............................  13
Financial and Economic Returns ..............................   14
7.    Project Sustainability ............................  15
Funding by Governmant ...........             .................   15
Crop Production ............................   15
Livestock Production ............................   15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cr                  e         di              t ................................................   15
Maintenance of Buildings ....................................    16
Maintenance of Water Supplies ................................   16
8.      IDA  Performance   ........................................    16
Lessons Learnt .              .........................................    17
9.      Borrower Performance  .....................................    17
Lessons Learnt .              .........................................    18
PART 11 PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 19
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  ............................   21
Table 2 - Project Summary  ......................    ................   22
Table 3 - Project Cost and Phasing . .................................. 23
Table 3A- Project Financing   . ......................................   24
Table 3B- Total Project Cost and Financing .............................   25
Table 4 - Estimated and Actual IDA  Credit Disbursements   ...................   26
Table 5 - Key Implementation Indicators - Dedza Hills RDP   ..................   28
Table 5A- Key Implementation Indicators - Lilongwe NE RDP  .................   29
Table 6 - Project Results .........................................    30
Table 7 - Status of Covenants . ..................................... 32
Table 8 - Use of Bank Resources  .               ..................................   33
ANNEX 1: Tables I to 29
MAPS:   IBRD 16547
IBRD 16548
IBRD 16549



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP). PHASE IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 1343-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National Rural Development Program
(NRDP) Phase IV Project in Malawi, for which Credit 1343-MAI in the amount of SDR 9.80 million
(USD 10.6 million equivalent) was approved on 20 May 1983.* The Project was closed on 30 April
1991, some two years and seven months behind schedule. Disbursements from the Credit totalled SDR
8.84 million (USD 11 million equivalent). At the time of the last disbursement on 20 September 1991,
an amount equal to SDR 0.96 million (USD 1.3 million equivalent) remained undisbursed; this balance
was cancelled as of 20 September 1991.
Parts I and III were prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) for
the Agriculture Operations Division of the Southern Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office.
The Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II. No comments were
received.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a visit by a team from FAO/CP in
February/March 1991 and is based, inter alia, on information gathered in Malawi, discussions with
Project staff and officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Works and Supplies, Bank staff
associated with the Project, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.
* A recent Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) by OED (Report No. 9750, dated June 28, 1991)
includes a cluster of four NRDP projects of which this Phase IV Project was one. This PCR
provides more detailed project-specific data that usefully supplements the Audit Report.



- iii 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPQRT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 1343-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background. Obiectives. Design
Tne NKational Rural Development Program (NRDP) Phase IV Project was the eleventh Bank
Group assisted rural development project in Malawi and was located in two of the Rural Development
Projects (RDPs) which form part of the Lilongwe Agricultural Development Division (LADD). The main
objectives of NRDP are to raise agricultural production, incomes and the standard of living in the
smailholder sector. Following the recommendations of an NRDP Review Mission mounted by the Bank
in 1981, the Project was designed to be less complex than previous projects by keeping the main emphasis
on production-related agricultural activities. The Project included components to strengthen and support:
the extension services responsible for crop production; horticulture; training; adaptive research; the
women's program; land husbandry; and livestock production; and made provision for improved credit
and marketing facilities. Though most non-production oriented components such as roads, health and
forestry were deliberately omitted, a large water supplies component was included to help alleviate the
unsatisfactory water supply conditions prevailing in many parts of the Project area. Provision was also
made to strengthen the management capacity of LADD, including special support for the monitoring and
evaluation unit. A further provision was made to carry out a livestock policy and program review to
determine production constraints in the livestock sector.
Implementation
The Project faced several major constraints which impeded implementation. The more
significant of these were:
(a)    There were severe shortages of qualified personnel to fill key positions, especially
in the earlier years, and even when posted, frequent transfers of staff caused
considerable disruption;
(b)    Procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures was
unsatisfactory and seriously delayed the delivery of essential transport;
(c)    There were considerable delays in the building construction program resulting from
.nadequacies in the preparation and processing of tender documents, the late
payment of contractors, and shortages of materials;
(d)    There were serious shortfalls and delays in the release of counterpart funi^% which,
during the last two years of implementation, seriously impaired the mobility and
effectiveness of staff; and



- iv -
(e)     There was inadequate provision for resolving inter-departmental and inter-
ministerial (lifferences.
Resutia
Despite the many constraints, implementation was generally successful insofar as operations
under the direct control of Project management were concerned. The various extension services were
satisfactorily strengthened, livestock facilities installed, input stores and markets established, an effective
mechanism for the issue and recovery of seasonal credit established, and protected water supplies
provided for around 180,000 people. Despite these achievements, the increase in agricultural production
did little more than keep pace with the increase in population. While it is probable that climatic
conditions, input supply and marketing problems, and sampling errors may have contributed to low
production data, there were other important factors which had a major bearing on production. These
were:
(a)     For the greater part of the implementation period almost two-thirds of smallholders
remained outside the ambit of the extension and credit services and therefore
contributed little to increased production;
(b)     Actual yields of hybrid maize varieties (produced mainly for sale) were less than
predicted mainly because management priority was given to local varieties, grown
for food;
(c)     Land expected to be released through increased production from higher yielding
varieties of maize was not forthcoming and this, in turn, prevented the anticipated
development of cash crops.
Over the last two years there has been a marked increase in the area of hybrid maize, estimated to cover
about 23% of the total maize area in the 1990/91 crop season. Further increases are expecteo,' as a result
of the introduction of new varieties in 1991/92. Due to its reoent occurrence, however, it is too early
to estimate the trend accurately and what role the extension services played to bring it about.
Sustainability
The services/investments supported under the Project are considered essential for sustainable
agricultural growth. The greatest threat to sustainability is posed by inadequate funding under the
recurrent account which, over the last three years of Project implementation, has shown imbalance in
favor of personal emoluments, with relatively low provision for the operational effectiveness of the
personnel concerned. While funding constraints are often encountered in countries having per capita GDP
as low as Malawi's, this has adversely affected the mobility of the extension services from LADD level
through to the field-level workers. Newly introduced extension systems, which show promise of reaching
even some of the smaller farmers, are threatened because the intensive supervision and additional training
essential for successful establishment have been restricted. The introduction and development of
promising new varieties of hybrid maize during the 1991/92 season is at risk. Shortages of transport
threaten credit recoveries since large amounts of cash accrue in field stations, where security
arrangements are often inadequate. IDA has started to address this problem by providing operating funds
through the Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project and funding operating costs for



- v -
extension is an Important issue being addressed during preparation of the proposed Agricultural Services
Projxt.
A further threat to sustainability rests in the depletion of the credit revolving fund which
is administered by the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) and which services credit
requirements including those in the Project area. This fund has been depleted largely because of falling
recovery rates and increases in fertilizer prices over the past two years, and SACA estimates that the
upward trend in issues of seasonal credit will not be sustainable in :991/92 without the substantial
injection of additional resources into the fund.
Findings and Lessons Learnt
The Bank is fully awarm of the imperfections in the design of the Project and, in particular,
of the need for the extension services to reach and influence a greater proportion of the smaller and
poorer farmers, and for the introduction of a more acceptable (flint) hybrid va.iety of maize.
Considerable progress has already been made in both respects through the complementary ---a:rch and
extension projects currently being assisted by IDA. NRDP IV is one of the !ast of the rural development
projects to be funded by IDA since most parts of Malawi are already covered by NRDP projects.
Sectoral projects that have in recent years taken the place of area-based projects can address problems
(such as research to improve technology) that the earlier projects did not cover, whiile continuing to
support NRDP services on a national basis. A further factor which will influence future policy (both of
the Government of Malawi and IDA) and future project design, is the need for resources to pay increased
recurrent expenditure inherited from NRDP projects.



PROJECT C:OMPEINPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRQGRAM (NRDP). PHASE IV PROJECT
(CREDIT 1343-MAD
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Eroect Identju
Project Name:National Rural Development Program (NRDP) Phase IV Project
Credit No.: 1343-MAI
RVP Unit:AF6AG
Country: Malawi
Sector:Agriculture
2. Background
2.1        The Project was prepared by the Planning Division of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and submitted in February 1982 for consideration by the Bank. It was appraised by the Bank in
April/May 1982. The IDA credit was successfully negotiated and the Credit Agreemen; signed on May
20, 1983, and became effective on August 22, 1983.
2.2        The Project was scheduled to extend over five years, starting in 1983/84, and expected to
cost SDR 11.56 million of which IDA would provide SDR 9.80 million by way of credit, and the
Government of Malawi would locally fund the remaining SDR 1.76 million. The Project was extended
three times beyond the original closing date of 30 September 1988 to September 1989, September 1990
and finally to 30 April 1991, mainly to permit disbursement undeir the delayed water supply component;
to utilize a portion of unexpeiued funds remaining under the credit for other expenditures associated with
the Project and approved by IDA to fill construction and equipment gaps overlooked at appraisal; and
to support a newly introduced pilot operation to improve extension work.
The Agricultural Sector
2.3        As is the case in Malawi today, at the time of Pr(,ject formulation, agriculture dominated
the country's economy. It contributed 40% of GDP, 89% of export earnings, and 45% of wage
employment. Export earnings during 1981 included the sale of tobacco (48%), followed by sugar (26%),
tea (12%) and grouadnuts (4%). Maize was not regarded as an export crop because of Government's
established policy of maize self-sufficiency and retention of strategic reserves.
2.4        Though agricultural production derived from both the smallholder and estate sectors, and
the former accounted for 81% of all production, production was largely geared towards meeting the
country's food staple requirements (predominantly maize but including groundnuts, cassava, sweet
potatoes, beans and rice). Within the smallholder sector, average farm holdings amounted to about 1.7
ha per farm family but holding sizes were skewed and about 70% of the holdings were in fact below 1.0
ha. In order to meet basic family food requirements, the overriding emphasis of the vast majority of
these relatively small farmers was of necessity to concentrate on the production of food staples.



-2 -
3he_Ag i!turl Development Strategy
2.S        '_  ament's strategy was a continuance of long-standing efforts designed to achieve and
maintain self-t.-...ciency in food staples, increases in livestock production in order to minimize dairy
imports, increases in agricultural exports, and improvement in rural incomes. In view of increasing land
pressures in many dreas, resulting from an average annual increase in the population of over 3.0%, the
major thrust of Govermnent's policy was towards a sustained rise in productivity from existing cultivable
areas, and increased emphasis on soil conservation and afforestation in order to restore soil fertility. The
proposed Project was to be part of the ongoing National Rural Development Program (NRDP) with the
overall objectives of: raising smaliholder production to meet domestic needs and provide exports; assuring
smallholder access to inputs and services; preserving Malawi's natural resources; and providing basic
social service infrastructure.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The Project, which constituted the fourth phase of NRDP, aimed at increasing agricultural
productivity and improving rural living standards in the Dedza Hills (DH) and Lilongwe Northeart (L-
NE) districts, drawing on the experience gained from previous rural development projects in Maiawi,
while incorporating a number of NRDP Review recomnnendations. The Project was expected to increase
Dedza/Lilongwe Northeast maize production by 10%; tobacco, 50%; groundnuts, 3%; and intoduce
wheat as a new crop. Specifically, the Project over a five-year period, included components to:
(a)    improve and expand district-level extension and training programs;
(b)    strengthen district-level research and horticulture activities;
(c)    support land husbandry including agroforestry;
(d)    construct three new diptanks and seven slaughter facilities, improve seven existing
livestock dips and establish an animal drug bank;
(e)    expand smallholder credit and build marketing facilities;
(f)    provide potable water supplies; and
(g)    strengthen Project management and evaluation capacities.
4. proiect Design and Organization
4.1        The Project was effectively designed to support the strengthening of key agricultural
services. Following the recommendations of an NRDP Review mission mounted by the Bank in 1981,
the Project was designed to be less complex than previous rural development projects, with the main
emphasis on production-related agricultural activities. Though water supplies were still included as an
important component, roads, forestry and health were excluded, and the proposed farmer:extension agent
ratio of 1:800 reflected the unsustainability of that of 1:350 adopted under the NRDP III Project.
Nevertheless, the main Project objective still remained the same as that which the Bank had been
advocating for well over a decade - to reduce the areas under food crops (predominantly local maize) by
the introduction of higher yielding packages (mainly hybrid maize) thereby releasing land for the



production of cash crops. Agricultural production would also be increased through the strengthening of
the support services and provision of seasonal and medium-term credit. Provision was also made to carry
out a livestock policy and program review to determine livestock production constraints.
4.2        MOA had overall responsibility for implementation through the direction of a Deputy
Secretary (DS) in the role of NRDP Coordinator, with the Program Manager (PM) of Lilongwe
Agricultural Development Division (LADD) reporting directly to him. The PM would have day-to-day
operational responsibility for the Project, to be supported by existing and additional technical officers both
at LADD headquarters and in the two RDPs (Lilongwe North East and Dedza Hills), which formed the
Project area. The staff at RDP level were to be headed by Project Officers, though lines of responsibility
in respect of technical matters were to be to specialist staff in the technical departments or ministries.
In this respect, the Chief Agricultural Development Officer (CADO), Chief Veterinary Officer (CVO)
and Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) would respectively retain technical lines of
responsibility for agricultural extension, livestock and veterinary services, and agricultural research
though the Project's administrative linkage would be with the DS. The Project was to have working
relationships with other technical departments and ministries such as the Departnent of Lands, Valuation
and Water (DLVW) in respect of the water supply con)ponent, and Ministry of Works and Supplies
(MOWS) in respect of the building construction program. To assist in the implementation of the building
program, 3 firm of consultant architects was to be appointed to coordinate and manage the civil works.
4.3        rn retrospect, there were various shortcomings in design, notably:
(a)    The statistical data available at the time of project formulation were inadequate
and/or unreliable particularly in respect of agricultural production, with the result
that many targets were either unrealistically low or highly optimnistic. Data on
trends in the uptake of improved crop varieties and the uptake of credit were either
unreliable or, more probably, discounted.
(b)    It was assumed that the extension service coverage would include the majority of
smallholders, yet no measures were introduced to vary the established practice of
channeling extension support to the relatively better-off Farm Club members
(which effectively debarred the smaller farmers from access to seasonal credit for
crop production).
(c)    L1   Husbandry Assistants and Farm Home Assistants were posted to Extension
Plaiading Area (EPA) Centers but only provided with bicycles to cover operational
areas with radii of about 20 km.
(d)    Though NRDP IV was largely production oriented in comparison to previous
NRDP projects, the Project would still result in substantially increased recurrent
expenditure on completion, and while there was full awareness of the mounting
difficulty on the part of Government in meeting the recurrent commitment already
accruing in respect of previous NRDP projects, the magnitude of this was still not
fully appreciated and the sustainability of the Project was not fully addressed.
(e)    There was inadequate specific provision for resolving inter-departmental and inter-
ministerial issues which arise during the impletnentation of integrated rural
development projects. For example, the inadequate communications between



Project management and the Water Department of MOWS that caused delay in
implementing the water component could have been avoided had there been a
suitable forum for Project coordination.
(f)    Implementation targets were overly optimistic. For instance, it was unrealistic to
expect much development activity during year one of the Project, yet physical
objectives were set for this period, which were virtually unachievable.
5. Proj  Implementation
5.1        The Project faced several major constraints which impeded the rate of implementation and,
though most of these were particularly damaging during the earlier stages, several persisted throughout
much of the implementation period. The more significant problems were:
(a)    Shortages of adequately trained staff particularly at LADD management level;
(b)    Frequent changes in the staffing of key posts;
(c)    Serious delays in the procurement of essential transport;
(d)    Inadequ!ate provision for the maintenance and repair of Project transport in general,
and motorcycles in particular;
(e)    Delays in the tendering and award of building construction contracts; cumbersome
lines of responsibility for timely payment of contractors' accounts; and periodic
shortages of building materials;
(f)    Inadequate knowledge of IDA disbursement and reimbursement procedures and
reporting formats, which differ substantially from standard Government practices;
(g)    Inadequate and unpredictable funding by Government;
(h)    Initial unsatisfactory liaison between LADD and the Water Department (WD) of
MOWS which delayed borehole construction; and
(i)    The effective lack of a Project Steering Committee which should have served as
a forum for resolving inter-departmental and inter-ministerial differences.
5.2        Project costs were close to those estimated at appraisal. Overruns in the water supplies
program were due to the expanded program and construction delays. Overruns experienced for the credit
component and IDA financed operating costs were due to extension of the Project period. The notable
underexpenditure by Government is described in par& 7.1 Project investments were all completed before
the original Closing Date, except those for water supplies. The latter program was slow to get off the
ground and required two additional years to complete. During this time, the equipment/vehicle
procurement and construction programs were expanded to fill gaps overlooked at appraisal. The key SAR
targets and the extent to which they were achieved are set out in Part HI, Tables 5 and 5A. The
implementation of individual components is discussed below.



-5-
Extension Services
5.3        During the first two years of implementation almost all of the crop extension effort was
channeled through the well established Farm Club (FC) network which, as today, represented virtually
the only access to seasonal credit for small to average smallholders. Because the vast majority of small
farmers tended not to join the FCs, and were more or less precluded from appropriate extension advice
and support, Government introduced the "block approach" under which every smallholder was included
in an extension area, and extension was effected through group demonstrations within the blocks even
though the FCs still continued to function in parallel. By 1987, with support from the IDA-supported
National Extension and Agricultural Planning Support Project (NEAPS), an extension pilot scheme was
introduced in Mzuzu ADD and later expanded to include parts of other ADDs including some EPAs in
L-NE and DH RDPs. In view of the apparent success of this approach it was further extended to cover
all EPAs in the Project area by the start of the 1989/90 season. Under the system, in addition to the
normal block extension activities, a network of small, on-farm demonstration plots are established,
extension workers' programs are more tightly structured, and regular staff training is intensified.
Despite some operational problems there are indications that, in general, both the extension staff and
farmers concerned support the new approach, which goes some way to widening the coverage of the
extension service to poorer farmers who previously perceived little relevance in its messages.
5.4        It is unfortunate that the extension service was not able to effect this change in emphasis in
approach until the Project was nearing the end of its implementation period. Though the proposed
extension worker: farm family ratios of about 1:800 were achieved in both RDPs and the service was
satisfactorily reorganized, from about 1988 onwards the crop extension service suffered increasingly from
shortages of transport at all levels and from severe limitations on the funds provided for transport
operation. Because the new extension approach initially entails more intensive support and supervision
than the standard block approach, the situation is a cause for considerable concern. Some of the technical
specialists and supervisory staff at both LADD and RDP levels have been office-bound at times and are
sometimes obliged to share transport for field travel. "
5.5        All of the proposed building works under the extension component were completed though
most were well behind schedule. Some of the standard staff housing designs were replaced by low-cost
designs in order to restrict expenditure. There were long delays in the provision of the electric power
supply to the L-NE headquarters complex and, as of March 1991, the supply had still not been connected
because meters remained to be fitted. In addition, the telephone connection to this headquarters, though
completed, is unreliable. Incremental staff were recruited as planned and transferred to the recurrent
budget by 1989/90. This included support for the Women's Program, but the effectiveness of the Farm
Home Assistants has been limited since they operate from EPA Centers using bicycles only and, under
normal circumstances, have restricted impact outside operational radii of about five or six kilometers from
EPA headquarters. (Most EPAs have a radius of about 20 km.)
" Supplementary operating funds are to be provided from the ongoing Agricultural Extension and
Planning Support Project in the first place and from the proposed Agricultural Services Project later,
until the Government's capacity to fund the services improves.



6-
Training
5.6        The proposed construction of Day Training Centers (DTCs) was duly effected (under the
extension component), and proposed improvements to the Residential Training Centers (RTCs) in both
L-NE and DH RDPs were undertaken satisfactorily but, as with most of the Project's building
construction program, completion of these works was well behind schedule. Until 1987, throughput of
farmers and staff at the RTCs was reasonably satisfactory apart from disruptions to courses caused by
the dry-season failure of water supplies at Dedza RTC (not rectified until 1989). After 1987, breakdowns
of the ageing personnel carriers, provided under the training component, affected the throughput at the
RTCs in both RDPs. This also restricted training of extension staff under th. pilot-scheme extension
system. Just over 12,700 farmers and staff were trained at DH RTC between 1983 and 1990 (25% were
women) and 8,125 at L-NE RTC (33% women). Attendance at the DH DTCs over the same period was
almost 23,500 (of whom 28% were women) and that for L-NE DTCs was 26,825 (33% women)
respectively. The DTCs were used mainly for training farmers. Course content appeared to be
satisfactory in both the RTCs and DTCs and included agriculture, the women's program, primary health
care, leadership, administration, credit and marketing, and evaluation procedures.
Research
5.7        Research diagnostic surveys were conducted as proposed and established a basis for annuai
adaptive research trials programs in both RDPs. The programs were established after close liaison
between the RDPs, LADD management, and staff of Chitedze Research Station's Commodity Research
Teams. Though only one Field Assistant (Research) was posted at each RDP, most trials appeared to
be well conducted and generally reflected practical problems being encountered by farmers and extension
staff. Whereas it was expected that Dedza Hills RDP would concentrate on horticultural trials, apart from
several trials on Irish potatoes, the main emphasis was on wheat, maize and maize/legume mixtures.
Trials on soyabean helped to pioneer the successful establishment of this crop, which now appears to have
good potential in many parts of the Project area.
5.8        The additional Senior Technical Officer (STO) and Technical Officer (TO) were not
recruited since these were provided by the Chief Agricultural Research Officer under funding from other
sources. By 1988/89 transport problems were affecting the mobility of LADD and RDP adaptive
research personnel. Despite this, the research component appears to have contributed significantly to
improvements in crop technology in both RDPs.
Horticultur
5.9        There was little activity under the horticultural component until 1984/85 in DH RDP and
1986/87 in L-NE RDP but progress since then has been good. The main focus of attention has been the
production of fruit-tree seedlings - mainly of tropical species at L-NE and temperate species at DH RDP -
and the demonstration of improved cultural practices for both fruit and vegetables at RTCs and DTCs.
The DH RDP nursery distributed over 3,470 improved seedlings between 1984/85 and 1990/91, and L-
NE over 9,950 between 1987/88 and 1990/91. Vegetable production (tomatoes, onions, cabbages, greens
and Irish potatoes) in DH RDP has increased from around 570 ha in 1984/85 to 7160 ha in 1990/91,
benefiting an estimated 10,000 growers.



-7-
Land Husbandiy (LH)
5.10       Because of staffing constraints, the posts of Chief Technical Officer (LH) and Senior
Technical Officer (LH) were never filled. The DH RDP Land Husbandry Section is headed by a
Technical Officer (LH) who is supported by four LHAs - one per EPA. In L-NE a Technical Officer
(LH) was appointed together with five Land Husbandry Assistants (LHAs) - one per EPA. Because the
LHAs were only provided with bicycles much of their effectiveness has been restricted because of
logistical constraints. This effectively ruled out the introduction of a long-term plan to control the
degradation of the highly erodible and ecologically fragile areas along the hills and escarpments, which
came under increasing pressure throughout the implementation period. Planning has, of necessity, been
on an ad hoc basis and has been largely based on an extensive campaign of pegging contour marker
ridges, and encouraging farmers to plant live buffer-strips along the contours, mainly in conjunction with
crop extension workers and through the training centers. Catchment conservation took place in several
areas and farmers were encouraged to use compost and FYM. In retrospect, the component suffered
from under funding in relation to its imporiance, particularly in view of the relentless increase in the rural
population which is forcing farmers iJlto areas which should not be cultivated in the absence of
appropriate soil conservation measures; and from inadequate pressure from the national level to date, to
mobilize the commitment and resources for a major soil conservation effort that is needed to protect the
endangered Dedza Hills area.
Veterinary Services and Livestock Production
5.11       Stallfeeding progra . Whereas the supply of stallfeeders in DH RDPs exceeded the SAR
target (target 750 - actual 755) there was a considerable shortfall in supply in L-NE RDP (target 1,500 -
actual 966). Most of the stock was supplied from Dzalanyama Cattle Ranch, and the remainder came
from local cattle markets, other farmers and Likadzi Breeding Station but this proved to be inadequate
since demand far exceeded supply in both RDPs. Transport of stock was often a problem since the onus
for providing this rested almost exclusively with LADD, which experienced periodic breakdowns of its
cattle transporters. The program was popular because, apart from the profitability relative to the short
fattening period (normally 4 -5 months), stalifeeding is normally a dry season operation when there is
spare labor as well as a supply of crop residues. (See Part III Annex I Table 7 - Stallfeeder Model.)
5.12       Daiy cattlg. As in the case of stallfeeders, the supply of dairy cattle was inadequate to meet
demand. Only 102 pairs of half-bred dairy cows were provided in L-NE RDP against a target of 525
(no provision was made for DH RDP). Milk production was often adversely affected by the reluctance
of farmers to relinquish adequate areas of cultivable land for the production of essential forage/fodder
crops even though planting material of Napier and seed of Rhodes grass were generally available. The
program also suffered because of breakdowns of cooling equipment at the collection centers, shortages
of suitable feeding concentrates, and the losses incurred from East Coast Fever in the early years of
implementation (until the successful introduction of a vaccine). Lack of experience in the management
of improved stock resulted in low average annual yields (about 1800 lit, s). The cost to farmers of
improved dairy animals (normally Malawi Zebu x Friesian) was, and continues to be, subsidized almost
to the extent of 50%, even though the enterprise is still profitable at unsubsidized rates. (See Part Im
Annex I Table 8 - Dairy Cow Model.) There still remains considerable scope for increased milk
production in the Lilongwe catchment area which has an annual shortfall in the supply of fresh milk
(about 20% in 1987/88) which is made up by imported skimmed milk powder.



-8 -
5.13       Drugs and vaccines. Though animal drugs and vaccines were provided under the Project
the drugs revolving fund failed to operate effectively because of lax control and accounting procedures
and the consequent shortfall in revenue necessary to effect the replacement of supplies.  The
unsatisfactory situation was exacerbated through the inability of Veterinary Assistants (VAs) to issue
receipts to farmers for drugs provided. Furthermore, drugs were often held until well beyond expiry
dates.
5.14       Diptanks. slaughter slabs and poultry houses. These structures were constructed as proposed
using LADD building construction teams operating under force account, and have been operated
effectively. The proposed additional VAs, dip attendants and laborers were recruited and have since been
transferred to the recurrent budget. Low-cost staff housing was also constructed under force account.
5.15       National livestock development study. Considerable divergence of opinion on the need for
the proposed National Livestock Development Study and difficulties in agreeing on Terms of Reference
delayed the execution of the study, and the final report was not issued until August 1988. The total cost
was US$ 194,224. It remains to be seen how much this study will contribute to improvements in the
livestock sector.
5.16       Transport. From 1989 onwards, the transport situation was becoming critical in terms of
both vehicles and operating funds. For example, as of March 1991, six senior members of staff of
LADD's Veterinary Division reportedly had only one vehicle between them, and the 14 Al Technicians
and Dairy Assistants were reliant upon highly unreliable motorcycles.
5.17       Seasonal credit. The Project was successful in establishing an efficient organization for the
issue and recovery of seasonal credit. The only data available from LADD, however, are in respect of
issues of credit which include some which were funded from sources in addition to the Project and it is
not possible to isolate the amounts and cost of the various inputs attributable solely to the Project. This
has resulted from the operation of the National Credit Fund which is controlled by the Smallholder
Agricultural Credit Administration (SACA) and which forms a pool for all sources of credit. Because
of this, some RDPs may have their credit funds supplemented by others having funds surplus to their
requirements. SACA asserts that the Project area (and L-NE RDP in particular) was in fact assisted in
this way, but it has not been possible to ascertain the extent to which this has occurred. The following
information should be regarded with this situation in mind.
5.18       In L-NE RDP the number of recipients of seasonal credit packages rose from 9,120 in
1983/84 to 16,500 in 1990/91. Issues of fertilizers sold under credit rose from 485 tons to just over
3,000 tons in the same period, and inputs of hybrid maize seed from 36 tons to 158 tons. In DH RDP,
seasonal credit recipients rose from 2,590 in 1983/84 to 7,870 in 1990/91 (but reached 11,000 in
1989/90). Fertilizer inputs rose from 680 tons to 1,800, and hybrid maize seed from 21 tons to 83 tons
over the same period. Recovery rates were exceptionally good between 1983/84 and 1987/88 (being at
or near 100% in most seasons) but, in common with the national trend, rates began to fall in the 1988/89
and 1989/90 seasons. During 1989/90 the recovery rates had fallen to 85.1 % in L-NE RDP and 87.6%
in DH RDP. This increase in default was largely attributable to depressed yields caused by adverse
weather conditions, increases in the costs of inputs (fertilizers in particular) and the raising of the credit
charge from 10% to 12½h%. The minimum hectarage for most seasonal credit packages was 0.4 ha up
to the 1988/89 season. Thereafter packages for 0.2 ha were introduced to meet the needs of smaller



-9 -
tarmers. LADD offered 299 seasonal credit packages during the 1990/91 cropping season, many of
which were in respect of the reduced hectarage, together with a wide range of single item packages of
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, again packaged in quantities to suit the smaller farmers. Details of
seasonal credit issues are provided in Part III Annex I, Tables 26 and 27.
5.19       Medium-term credit. The medium-term credit subcomponent was not successful, with
considerably less than anticipated issues and generally unsatisfactory recovery rates. General farming
loans over the implementation period only amounted to 69 ox-carts, 7 ox-implements and 331 hand
sprayers. Recovery of loans in respect of these items was always unsatisfactory, this being attributable
to the one-off nature of such loans when the denial of further credit does not pose an imminent threat as
in the case of seasonal credit. In addition, medium-term loans are normally to individuals and thus social
pressures to repay do not apply. The recovery of medium-term loans for dairy animals was more
successful because repayments were deducted by the chairmen of dairy groups from receipts from milk
sales. DH RDP had a better record of repayment than L-NE and ach-eved over 91% in 1986/87.
Recoveries fell sharply thereafter, however, to reach 54% in 1989/90. L-NE recoveries rever exceeded
55.2%, and fell to 34.4% in 1989/90. Details of medium-term credit are provided in Part III Annex I,
Tables 28 and 29.
Markets
5.20       The four permanent input stores were constructed under the supervision of the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), using ADMARC's standard design. Construction
was well behind schedule and structural faults occurred but these were not serious and were subsequently
corrected. ADMARC has assumed control over the staffing and operation of the stores.
Water Supplies
5.21       Funds were provided for 880 water points (WPs) in L-NE and 600 WPs in DH RDP (a
borehole represents two WPs and a dug well one WP). The program was implemented through the Water
Department (WD) of MOWS. Implementation was considerably delayed and Project extensions were
primarily requested to allow completion of this important program. Initial delays were caused by WD
staffing problems; liaison difficulties between WD and LADD; materials shortages and some difficulties
in sorting out and monitoring the flow of funds for the program. After a liaison committee was
established and met regularly and return of WD staff from training, implementation went smoothly. With
Project extensions, 1810 water points were provided, exceeding the target of 1480 water points. Of
these, 342 boreholes (684 water points) were constructed in Dedza Hills by three different contractors,
while 1126 water points (481 new boreholes, 43 rehabilitated boreholes and 78 shallow wells) were
constructed in Lilongwe N.E. by WD, by force account.
5.22       It is probable that this component is the one above all others which the vast majority of the
rural population in the Project area would have accorded top priority prior to implementation.



- 10 -
Project Administration
5.23       The Monitoring and Evaluatio.. unit was duly established and LADD was fortunate in the
quality of its staffing even though this changed fairly frequently. The output and quality of a wide range
of surveys and management information has been, and continues to be, commendable. Field enumerators
operated in both RDPs as proposed. All equipment and transport was procured as proposed but delays
in the replacement of vehicles caused logistical problems from about 1988 onwards. An effective
computer system was established under the control of the unit but, as of March 1991, this had not been
linked to the systems in MOA or the other ADDs. In addition to its support for LADD operations, the
unit is involved in national statistical data collection, After initial problems a format was established to
meet the Credit Agreement reporting requirements. These reports differ from those required by MOA,
and their use was more or less restricted to IDA and supervision missions. Despite intermittent
divergences and anomalies, reporting has been above the standard of most other ADDs.
S.24       LADD management assumed tighter control over the two RDPs than was envisaged at
appraisal, and the RDP managements were restricted largely to implementation of day-to-day operations.
LADD controlled most of the civil works and major procurement while the RDPs implemented the field
components. This was probably inevitable in view of the structure of MOA but LADD's obligation to
manage RDPs under both development and recurrent budgets posed difficulties which compounded
administrative problems. Annual work plans were evolved during implementation but there remained
room for considerable improvement in these since little reference appeared to be made to them once they
hacs served their primary purpose of supporting annual budget requests.
Prcurement
5.25       Inadequacies in the procurement of goods under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures contributed towards delays in the implementation of almost every component. Despite
assistance provided by the Bank to establish a centralized procurement unit within MOA, constant changes
in the staffing of this unit resulted in repeated irregularities which were unacceptable under the terms of
IDA's procurement procedures and which resulted in long delays in the preparation of tender documents,
the analysis of bids, and award of contracts. It is indicative of the malaise which continues to afflict
MOA ICB procurement that the final NRDP IV tender for the replacement of vehicles (No. 3234) was
issued in September 1989 but, as of March 1991, delivery had still not been completed.
6. Project Results and ImDact
6.1        Despite managerial, operational and financial problems and the attendant delays imposed
by these, implementation was generally successful insofar as operations under the direct control of Project
management were concerned. Project results and impact, however, were adversely affected because of
conditions, policies and decisions largely outside the control of management. It was expected that the
major impact would derive from substantially increased crop and livestock production. This did not
transpire within the timeframe predicted, but there was a considerable increase in the area planted to
hybrid maize in 1990/91, and further increases are likely.   On the other hand, the Project has
significantly improved the organization and potential of the agricultural extension services, which are now
capable of timely delivery of new messages/technologies; established a successful system for the issue
and recovery of seasonal credit; improved the administrative capacity at LADD and RDP levels; and
provided vastly improved water supplies for much of the rural community in the Project area.



- 11 -
Crop Production
6.2         Before considering crop production, it should be appreciated that the vast majority of
holdings in the Project area are below 2.G ha in area - 95% in DH and 92% in L-NE - 66% of holdings
in DH are below 1.0 ha with a mean holding size of 0.57 ha - and 61% of L-NE holdings are below 1.0
ha, again with a mean holding size of 0.57 ha. It is also important to understand the implications of the
supply of staple food (predominantly maize) on many households. The precarious situation in respect
of food security can be illustrated by quoting from LADD's Food Security and Nutrition Monitoring
Survey of 1990:
"By December 1990, 86% of households (within LADD) had no staple food
left. The hardest hit RDPs are Lilongwe East (91 %) and Dedza Hills (88%)"
This statement does not imply that households without supplies of staple food are necessarily starving
since most have alternative means of procuring food. The main method of doing so, however, is to sell
labor under a system known as "ganyu" and, unfortunately, this mostly takes place at times when labor
should be applied to the production of the household's own crops. The extent of this reliance on other
sources of income can be judged from the following comment from the same survey:
'48% of households simply do not have enough cash to buy staple food"
The widespread obligation on many smallholders is to sell their labor at critical periods during the
growing season, and the consistently low yields brought about by continuous cropping in the absence of
organic and/or inorganic inputs has edged the majority of such farmers into a hazardous situation which
permits little scope or incentive for manoeuvre or speculation in efforts to extricate themselves. The
majority of such smallholders are subject to considerable constraints on their agricultural options and
practices which, in turn, prejudice their relationships with the extension and credit services, and have a
direct bearing on their productivity.
6.3        Though the extension service was effectively strengthened under the Project, up to 1988 it
still continued to work mainly with the larger farmers, and few of the smallest farmers sought extension
advice since the extension messages were perceived by them to be irrelevant to their subsistence systems.
Apart from their lack of exposure to extension advice, they were largely ineligible for seasonal credit,
either through their inability to satisfy credit criteria (the 0.4 ha minimum hectarage requirement for most
crop packages prevailed until 1988/89) or the justified fear of not being able to service loans. This
combination of factors has resulted in most of the smallest farmers contributing little or nothing towards
increased crop production.
6.4        A further factor which affected production was the management system of hybrid maize
adopted by many farmers. Though the issues of improved seed exceeded SAR estimates, and the
recommended packages of seed and fertilizers were issued under seasonal credit, a sizeable proportion
of the fertilizer was diverted to local maize which has considerably less response than hybrid maize. The
net result was that the fertilizers were less effective than they would have been if applied to the hybrids
at the full rates. In addition, frequently, priority of planting is given to local maize (as the preferred
staple food) and the consequent delay in planting hybrids depresses their yields. Because of these factors,
the average yields of hybrids were short of SAR predictions. The expected uptake of composite maize
failed to materialize and production was negligible throughout implementation.  Hybrids have been
generally regarded as cash crops and mainly produced on holdings large enough to permit production of



- 12 -
maize in addition to the essential area of preferred local maize. It is interesting that farmers would
sacrifice hybrid yields to ensure food security. Unsatisfactory pounding qualities; poor palatability;
susceptibility of the growing crop to insect attack; and poor storage qualities are the commonly cited
reasons for rejection of the available hybrids for food production by many farmers.
6.5        Cropping trends during implementation were probably influenced more by pricing policies,
the vagaries of the weather, the availability of inputs, and marketing conditions than by the intervention
of the Project. The 66% increase in maize prices in 1987/88 resulted in a predictable and substantial
increase in maize production but simultaneously reduced production of other crops - particularly
groundnuts. ADMARC's deteriorating financial situation from the mid-1980s onwards created marketing
problems for smallholders and influenced cropping trends because late payments for produce restricted
the uptake of inputs in the following season. Late arrival or inadequate supplies of fertilizers and seeds
frequently obliged farmers to switch out of hybrid maize and groundnuts into alternative crops.
Production in 1986/87 and 1988/89 was adversely affected by poor rains. Yields tended to be extremely
variable over the implementrcion period and there was no discernable upward trend in these. Indeed,
most yields in 1988/89 and 1989/90 were considerably less than those of 1984/85 and 1985/86.
6.6        It is difficult to quantify crop production because some of the available data appear to be
suspect. For example, production trends in DH RDP do not reflect the increases necessary to support
a population which is estimated to have increased by about 25% since 1983/84. Despite this, there are
indications that cropping trends were beginning to change during 1989/90 and 1990/91. Extension staff
reported that timely availability of seed and fertilizers had resulted in considerable increase in the area
planted to hybrid maize though this trend could have been influenced to some extent by the serious
shortage of groundnut seed and poor yields of groundnuts during 1988/89 and 1989/90. There has also
been a marked increase in the production of soya bean since its introduction (1987/88 in L-NE and
1989/90 in DH RDP). Production of Northern Division Dark Fire-cured Tobacco was controlled under
a quota system and the Project's influence was restricted more to improving quality though it is difficult
to assess the Project's impact in this respect.
6.7        In respect of the Project's main objective of increased crop production, the situation can be
summarized as follows:
(a)    For most of the implementation period almost two-thirds of farmers remained
outside the ambit of the extension and credit services and therefore contributed
little to increased crop production;
(b)    Yields of hybrid varieties were less than predicted, therefore the land expected to
be released through increased production of higher yielding varieties of maize was
not forthcoming and this, in turn, prevented the development of cash crops; and
(c)    A major increase in the adoption of hybrid maize varieties appears to have
occurred towards the end of the Project which is likely to be reinforced by the
introduction of new varieties and this could result in realization of Project
expectations although later than anticipated.
Details of crop areas and incremental crop production are provided in Part Im Annex I Tables 14 and 15
respectively.



- 13 -
6.8        The difficulties of assessing the extent and effectiveness of the Project's credit component
have been raised in para 5.17 above. In the absence of a breakdown of the credit issues (by funding
source) it has not been possible to determine the impact of the component with any degree of accuracy.
The Project, however, most certainly strengthened the capacity of the credit services to issue and recover
credit, and contributed significantly to the substaptial increase in seasonal credit issues in particular.
Livestock Development
6.9        The Project's impact on livestock production was constrained through the short supply of
both stallfeeders and dairy animals. While the impact on animal health resulting from improved dipping
facilities and an improved supply of livestock drugs is not quantifiable it must be significant. Estimates
of incremental livestock production are given in Annex 1, Table 16.
Social Services
6.10       Whereas it is not possible to quantify the impact of the water supplies component, there can
be little doubt that, in the eyes of many living in the Project area, this was by far the most important
contribution to an enhanced quality of life. Some 1,810 water points were provided or rehabilitated by
the time the Project closed in April 1991 (330 above the SAR target). On the assumption that each water
point has a design capacity to serve 125 people, and the capacity is utilized only to the extent of 80%,
it is probable that about 180,000 people out of a total population of just under 500,000 (36%) have been
provided with clean and reasonably accessible drinking water. Though relevant data on health are not
available, there can be little doubt that the incidence of water-borne diseases must be less prevalent.
6.11       The extensive civil works programs in the Project area contributed significantly to r-aral
employment while these were being implemented. On the conservative assumption that 5% of the total
cost of the building construction and water supplies components were attributable to locally employed
labor, this still amounts to some MK 550,000.
Environment
6.12       The most important ecological effect within the Project area has been the markedly increased
encroachment into areas of steep slopes and friable soils, brought about by the rapidly increasing rural
population, and degradation of soils in the extensive areas where continuous cropping is practiced. The
land husbandry component was not adequately supported nationally or furnded to tackle this rapidly
deteriorating situation and though considerable areas were provided with contour marker ridges and buffer
strips, these were not provided on a sufficient scale in those areas at greatest risk, which, in any case,
require more sophisticated conservation measures.
Strengthening Project Administration
6.13       Strengthening of the LADD and RDP administrations has resulted in an increased capacity
to meet changing needs in the future. An effective monitoring and evaluation system has been established
which, if used to full advantage, should serve as a useful aid to management, and provide a sound basis
for future planning and policy decisions.



- 14 -
Financial and Economic Returns
6.14       To facilitate comparison with SAR estimates, financial returns are presented in terms of net
return per ha and income per day for both the without and with Project situations. The results of this
analysis are summarized in Part III, Table 6, and are given in detail in Annex 1, Tables 1 to 13.
6.15       The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) to project investment was estimated at appraisal to be
17%. The primary benefits of the project included increased crop and livestock production deriving from
expanded and improved extension, land husbandry, training, credit, marketing activities and improved
animal disease control. For the purpose of estimating the ERR of the Project, ex post, no changes in the
total cropped area liave been considered in the with Project situation, although data provided by LADD
indicate that, in both Dedza Hills and Lilongwe NE, there was a considerable increase in the total
cuiltivated area between 1982/83 and 1990/91. On the assumption that such changes would have occurred
even in the absence of the Project, only actual changes in the cropping pattern (Annex 1, Table 14) and
real increases in yields deriving directly from Project-related activities, have been taken into account in
estimating the total Project incremental production (Annex 1, Tables 15 and 16). On the basis of the
above main considerations and other assumptions as detailed in Annex 1, Tables 17 to 24, the overall
ERR of the Project has been reassessed at 12.3% (Annex 1, Table 25).
6.16       The difficulties of collecting accurate data to quantify the benefits of this type of project are
well known.' Consequently the results are subject to a wide margin of error. Evaluation of this Project
is particularly difficult, because production changes expected for the major commodities are too small to
measure, and even with an accurate database, would be within the sampling error of the necessary
observations; in addition, the impact of exogenous factors such as weather conditions or of price or policy
changes cannot be separated from the impact of Project investments. For these reasons, ERR estimates
are not a good guide to the success of this Project. While the realization of the production impact has
been slower than anticipated, the Project did put in place an advisory service, an effective credit system
and marketing (both input and output) facilities that are well poised to serve the farming community and
help to improve farming technology. The rapid expansion of fertilizer use and the successful switch to
high nutrient content fertilizers (to reduce high transport costs) are important achievements. In addition,
in the last Project year, there has been a marked expansion of hybrid maize production which now
accounts for about 23% of the maize area nationally. There are good reasons to believe that the increase
is a part of a trend but it would be difficult to quantify the contribution of the extension services
accurately.
V The difficulties of re-estimating ERRs ex post for the series of NRDP projects are summarized in
a recent OED Audit Report - PPAR, Malawi NRDP projects, Report No. 9750, dated June 28,
1991, Annex 1. The Annex reviews the series of attempts that have been made, ex ante and ex post,
to estimate the ERRs for the various phases of the program.



7. Project Sustainability
Funding by GovernMent
7.1        While implementation of most of the Project components was generally successful, the
sustainability of many of these components is open to considerable doubt unless funding by Government
improves substantially or further support from donors is forthcoming. Government's contribution towards
the financing of the Project was recorded as 1.5% instead of the proposed 15% (see Part III Table 3A),
but this may be an underestimate. All staff salaries and wages were paid by Government and this
expenditure may not have been fully recorded in the Project accounts. Nevertheless, indications were
already becoming apparent during the latter stages of implementation of the Project that inadequate local
funding was adversely affecting several of the Project's components.  In particular, shortfalls in the
provision for vehicle operation increasingly affected field activities of the extension services (notably crop
and livestock extension, land husbandry, training and the women's progranr.) during 1989/90 and
1990/91. This is discussed in Section 5 - Project Implementation. In addition to inadequate provision
for transport operation, it is doubtful if, given the country's financial constraints, Government will be
able to sustain in the near future, the level of transport provided under the Project without extemal
assistance. Even though some procurement of transport was still outstanding as of early March 1991,
this will merely postpone the onset of the problem of replacement. In view of this situation, unless there
is support from external sources, it appears likely that there will have to be cutbacks in the levels of
extension support provided for smallholders in the Project area in the foreseeable future. 3
Crop Production
7.2        It is probable that the new generation of hybrid maize varieties (MH17 and MH18 and
others in the pipelinie) produced through commendable efforts by the Chitedze Research Station with
assistance under the National Agricultural Research Project, will begin to replace part of the local maize
crop with effect from 1991/92 onwards. The rate of change will depend on several factors including the
extent to which the extension service will be able to demonstrate and promote the varieties (bearing in
mind the logistical constraints outlined above); acceptance of the varieties by the majority of farmers as
replacements for local maize; and the ability of the National Seed Company to meet demand.
Livestock ProdE[ go
7.3        There is unlikely to be an increase in the availability of stallfeeders and dairy animals in the
foreseeable future. In fact, there could be even fewer animals available as competition from other areas
increases. The availability of seasonal and medium-term credit will also have a considerable bearing on
production.
7.4         Though the credit component resulted in the establishment of an effective mechanism for
the issue and recovery of seasonal credit, falling recovery rates (although they are still very high by
international standards) and increases in fertilizer prices in recent years have seriously depleted the
3 As indicated with regard to para. 5.3, IDA plans to support the operating costs of improving extension
operations, including the replacement or repair of defective vehicles and equipment.



- 16 -
national revolving credit fund controlled by the Smallholder Agricultutal Credit Administration (SACA).
SACA indicated in early March 1991 that it will be unable to maintain the 1990/91 levels of seasonal
credit without a substantial injection of funds to replenish the fund, and estimates that an additional MK
41.7 million will be required prior to the 1991/92 cropping season to sustain the upward trend in the issue
of seasonal credit. SACA's additional requirements for the period 1991 to 1996 are estimated at MK
75.0 million, excluding any provision for inflation. There is little need to stress the implications of this
situation on future production, which is receiving the attention of the project preparation team for the
forthcoming Agricultural Services Project, that would have a major credit component.
Maintenance of Buildings
7.5        While the 1990/91 provision for maintenance of buildings in the Project area appeared to
be adequate (MK 280,700) this was not released to the RDPs until early March 1991, almost at the end
of the fiscal year. In order not to lose the provision, Project Officers will be obliged to convert it i.to
materials since there is inadequate time left in which to employ labor to implement the maintenance
program. However, the LADD construction unit that built most of the minor structures, including low
cost housing, is in place to utilize the maintenance materials.
Maintenance of Water Supplies
7.6         The WD estimated the 1990/91 average cost of borehole maintenance to be MK 500 per
annum/per borehole. Provision for maintenance during that year amounted to MK 381 per borehole,
representing a shortfall of about 23%. The appointment of "village caretakers" to undertake simple
preventative maintenance is being promoted by the WD in both RDPs and, when this system becomes
fully operational, there should be some reduction in maintenance costs on Government's account since
dte village caretakers' wages are to be met by local contribution. However, there is still likely to be an
appreciable shortfall in maintenance funds, which will become greater with the passage of time, as the
pumps and casings deteriorate and need to be renovated or replaced. It is, therefore, fortunate that as
the District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program did for road construction and maintenance,
a rural water supplies organization with IDA support, will become responsible for improving the
maintenance of rural water supplies.
8. IDA Performance
8.1        Details of staff inputs by the Bank during appraisal, negotiation-and supervision, and data
on supervision missions are provided in Part III Table 8.
8.2        Tne Project was supervised as one of a group of inter-related agricultural projects supported
by IDA, and benefitted from the interaction between several of these projects. This applied especially
in the respect of the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) and National Extension and Planning
Support Project (NEAPS) which had been established in part to address two of the major problems
recognized by the Bank as serious constraints in the implementation of NRDP projects - i.e. the lack of
an acceptable flint hybrid maize variety, and the inability of the extension service to influence the poorest
farmers. As a result, during the last two years of the Project, implementation focused on participating
in the program to improve agricultural extension that had been initiated under the NEAPS project.
8.3        With the benefit of hindsight it is clear that there were some deficiencies in the Project's
design - these are listed in Section 4 (Project Design and Organization). Despite this, the Bank's



- 17 -
performance in the supervision of the Project was of a generally high standard, and the input of missions
and the Bank's Resident Mission (which was established at about the half-way stage of implementation)
proved to be an effective adjunct to Project management, and contributed significantly to the successful
achievement of the majority of objectives. The sanctioning of three extensions to the Project's closing
date enabled the Project to exceed the original objectives of the water supplies component, as well as
introduce improved extension methods.
Lessons Le
8.4        The Bank is aware of the imperfections in the design of the Project and there is no need to
labor this point further. NRDP IV is one of the last of the rural development projects to be assisted by
IDA, since virtually all parts of Malawi have been covered by NRDP projects. In the recent past, lending
emphasis has switched to sectoral projects, which can solve problems that could not be solved by area-
based projects (such as introduction of new technology), and can provide support to NRDP throughout
Malawi at the same time. A further important consideration which will influence future policy (of both
Government and IDA) and donor support, is the burden of increased recurrent expenditure, inherited by
Government on the completion of integrated rural development projects. Steps to provide IDA finance
for incremental operating costs have been initiated under the NEAPS project and are an important
consideration for the preparation of the forthcoming Agricultural Services Project.
9. BoroerPdmn
9.1        There were some areas in which the Borrower found it difficult to provide adequate support
to the Project, which affected the rate of development. These have been discussed elsewhere in this
report but can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Funding of Government's contribution amounted to only 1.5% of the total costs
instead of the 15% required under the Credit Agreement ". This situation still
prevails and threatens to affect the sustainability of several of the key components;
(b)    Postings to several key management positions were delayed and there were
frequent transfers of staff particularly within LADD's management;
(c)    Procurement of items under ICB procedures was unsatisfactory and delayed the
delivery of essential transport; and
(d)    There was inadequate provision for resolving inter-departmental and inter-
ministerial differences because the Steering Committee responsible for this rarely
met.
9.2        Final disbursements amounted to about 90% of the total Credit. Details of estimated and
actual disbursements are shown in Part Im Table 4. As can be seen, disbursements always lagged behind
4  As indicated in para 7.1, Goverment contribution may have been higher, but may not have been fully
recorded in the Project accounts. However, it is true that without donor support for operating costs,
the services will deteriorate.



- 18-
SAR estimates, largely because of delays under the civil works programs and procurement of vehicles,
and partly because of devaluation of the Malawi Kwacha.
9.3         Compliance with the legal covenants of the Credit Agreement is shown in Part III Table
7. The submission of audited Annual Accounts and Statements of Expenditure was invariably delayed
beyond the stipulated six-month grace period but the standard of accounting was generally satisfactory.
Lesons Lnt
9.4        It is doubtful if the Borrower will be able to resolve the budgetary problems threatening the
sustainability of the Project in the short term. These are far reaching and affect virtually all departments
of all ministries, and call for support from donors. It is, however, hoped that staffing constraints will
moderate gradually as staff return from training. The inefficient procurement of items under ICB
procedures has affected almost all of MOA's donor-assisted projects and the need to resolve the chronic
problems p!aguing the Procurement Unit is imperative. MOA has sent several officers for specialist
overseas training on procurement, but these officers have invariably been transferred to other duties
shortly after their return. A further important lesson to be learnt is the need for regular meetings of the
Steering Committee(s) responsible for development projects of this nature. These should be held
quarterly, be supported by formal agendas, and should be formally minuted. Most of the problems and
delays surrounding the implementation of the water supplies component could have been avoided with
firm intervention by the Steering Committee.



- 19 -
PApRT u: PRJCT gEyIE FROM TEOOWER'S PERSpT1E
The comments from Government on the contents of this PCR have not yet been received.



- 21 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/Credit Title      Purpose                 Calendar Year        Status       Comments
of Approval
(1) National Rural           Very similar                1981       Closing date       Third IDA project to
Development              components to NRDP                     September 1986    support rural
Program Phase IlI       [V. Main objectives to                  extended to       development in Karonga
(Credit 1183-MAI)        increase agricultural                  September 1988.    Agricultural Division
production, income and                                   (ADD) in North
welfare of the                                           Malawi.
smallholder sector. It
also included forestry.
(2) Smallholder Fertilizer   Improve fertilizer          1983       Closed 31 March    Ensured fertilizer
Project (Credit 1352-    procurement and                        1988.             supplies for the project
MAI)                     distribution.                                            area, following a period
when supplies were
erratic.
(3) National Agricultural    Improving national          1985       Under              Strengthening
Research Project         research policy.                      imnplementation.    agricultural research
(Credit 1549-MAI)                                                                 should accelerate
finding technology that
would enable the
services instaUed by the
project to help farmers
increase production and
raise their income.
(4) Agricultural Extension   Improving extension         1985       Under              This project should
and Planning Support     work nationally.         (December)   implemnentation.    improve the
Project                                                                           effectiveness of the
(Credit 1626-MAI)                                                                 extension service
established by the
NRDP III and IV
projects.



- 22 -
Table 2 - Project Summary
A. Proiect Identity
Country:                      Republic of Malawi
Sector:                       Agriculture
Project Name:                 National Rural Development Program
(NRDP) Phase IV Project
IDA Credit Number:            1343-MAI
Credit Amount                 SDR 9.8 million (USS 10.6 million)
Local Counterpart Funding:    SDR 1.76 million (USS 1.9 million)
B. ProEict Timetable
Date Planned                        Revised Date         Actual Date
Preparation                   February 1982                                             February 1982
Appraisal                     April/May 1982                                            April/May 1982
Board Approval                                                                          April 5, 1983
Loan/Credit Sigqature                                                                   May 20, 1983
Loan/Credit Effeetiveness     August 22, 1983                                           August 22, 1983
Loan/Credit Closing           September 30, 1988                  September 30, 1989    April 30, 1991
September 30, 1990
Loan/Credit Completion        March 1989                           March 1991           October 1991
SAR Issued in March 17,
1983
C. Exchanue Rate Movements
(USS 1.00)
At Appraisal (May 1982)                     MK 1.07
First IDA Disbursement (March               MK 1.23
1984)
Final IDA Disbursement (Sept.               MK 2.75
I991)



Table 3 - Project Cost nd Phasing
- SAR Esti ate-
Coanpotews                          1983/84      1984/85      1985186      1986/87      1967/88      19S8189      1989190       1990191      ToWa        b of Base
ExtensionServices                     796          748          339           174          161           -            -            -         2,218          22
Training                              233          106           83           84           85            -            -            -           591           6
Reerch                                137           70           75           61           57            -            -            -           400           4
Horticulture                           25            9            8            9            7            -            -            -           5S            1
Lnd Husbandry                         119          211           78           59           59            -            -            -          526            5
Ivetock and Veterinay Servics         221          192          104           90           84            -            -            -          691            7
Credit Supervision                     57           79           17            19          17            -            -            -           189           2
Credt Fund                            ISO          187          272           198          149           -            -            -           956          10
Marketing                             171          174            7            7            7            -            -            -           366           4
Water Supply                           85          433          457          364           380           -            -            -         1,719          17
Moitoting and Evaluation               72           60           28           28           28            -            -            -          216            2
Projwct Headquatcs                    594          355          167           174          168           -            -            -         1,458          IS
LADD Hedquarker                       290          140           37           30           30           -             -            -          527            5
Toal Base Cods:                   2,950        2,754        1,672        1,297         1,232          -            -            -         9,915          100
CoSingencies                          383          748          616          721          997           -             -            -         3,465          35
Tota Coot SAR:                    3,333        3,512        2,288        2,018        2,229           -            -            -         13,380         135
Toa Cost Actu:                     478         1,414        3,268        2,079        2,245        3,544        6,889        4,127       24,044
"   Curmnt MK (see Table 3B).



Table 3A - Project Fmancing
Planned                                               Fmal as a % of
Credit Agreement                   Fmal                      Planned
(SDR '000)                     (SDR '000)      %                      %
A. IDA Expenditure Category
1. Civil works (cxci. Part J)                             2,700                           1,799                             67
2. (a) Civil works (under Part J)                         1,920                           2,206                            115
(b) Vehicles, spare parts, equipment (Pat J)              75                             209                            279
(c) Opeating costs (Part J)                              120                              6                               5
3. Vehicles, sparm pats, equipment (cxcl. Part J)           760                            460                              61
4. Consutnt's services                                      220                             146                             66
5. Incr. seaonal credit and increm. medium-tern credit    1,140                           1,662                            146
6. Agriral inputs                                           460                             36                               8
7. Incram. operating costs                                1,480                           2,316                            156
8. Unallocated                                              925
Total Extenal                                          9,800       85                 8,840      98.5                   90
B. GOM Contribution                                       1,760       15                   130 11   1.5                      7
TOWal                                                   1,560     100                 8,970     100                     78
1/ May be an underestimate because salaries and wages of Project staff may not have been entered into Project accounts.



Table 3B - Total Project Cost and Financinge
(MK'OOO)
1983/84     1984/85       1985/86      1986/87       1987/88      1988/89      1989/90       1990/91           Total
Category                                                                   A.  IDA
1              297.7            -       1,088.5        655.2            -         495.8        468.0         315.6           3,320.8
2a                -          125.2        109.0        400.0        904.2       1,721.0      2,382.2       2,143.8           7,785.4
2b                          218.4            -            -                                        -            -              218.4
2c                             8.5          0.9           -             -                          -            -               9.4
3                 -             -          33.9        112.1         241.8        247.0         62.6         572.8           1,270.2
4                 *             -            -            -          265.0        247.0            -            -              512.0
5                 -          200.0        930.9         10.7           7.6         11.8      2,644.2            -           3,805.2
6               64.6         753.5         20.8           -            2.9           -             -            -             841.8
7              108.7            -        956.9         796.0        796.2         759.5      1,325.3       1,054.7          5,797.3
Total:        471.0       1,305.6       3,140.9      1,974.0      2,217.7       3,482.1      6,882.3       4,086.9         23,560.5
8. GOVERWrENT CONTRIBUTION
1                0.2            -         120.9         72.8            -           7.0           -                           200.9
2.                                           -
2b                -          24.3            -          19.4            -            -            -             -              43.7
2c                              -            -            --                         -            -             - 
3                 -             -           3.8         12.5         26.9          27.4          7.0          40.3             117.9
4                 -             -            -            -             -          27.4           -             -              27.4
5
6                7.2         83.7           2.3                       0.3                         -             -              93.5
7
Total:           7.4        108.0         127.0        104.7         27.2          61.8          7.0          40.3            483.4
C. TOTAL PROJECT COST
1             297.9             -      1,209.4         728.0           -          502.8        468.0        315.6           3,521.7
2a                -         125.2         109.0        400.0        904.2       1,721.0      2,382.2       2,143.8          7,785.4
2b                -         242.7            -          19.4                  -                   -             -             262.1
2c                -           8.5          0.9            -            -             -            -             -               9.4
3                 -             -         37.7         124.6        268.7         274.4         69.6        613.1           1,388.1
4                 -      -            -                   -         265.0         274.4           -             -             539.4
5                 -         200.0        930.9          10.7          7.6          11.8      2,644.2            -           3,805.2
6               71.8        837.2         23.1            -           3.2            -            -             -             935.3
7              108.7            -        956.9         796.0        796.2         759.5      1,325.3       1,054.7          5,797.3
Total:         478.4       1,413.6     3,267.9       2,078.7      2,244.9       3,543.9      6,889.3      4,127.2          24,043.9
Source: LAD - Finamcial Controller.
" The accounts for the Project are based on disbursement categories rather than Project components.



Page I
Table 4 - Estimated and Actual IDA Credit Disbursements
SAR Estimate                          Actual
IDA           Quater Ending            Quarter         Cumulative         Quadtr         Cumulative          %        Actual as % of
Fisl Year                              Disbursement      Disbursement     Disbursement     Disbursement     Disbursed       Estimates
------------------- (SDR'000) ----------------                        ----      (%) - -------
1982/83        June 30                    185               185
1983184        Sepember 30                185               370
December 31               370                740
March 31                  555              1,295             175               175            1.8            14
June 30                   647              1,942               8               183            1.9             9
1984185        September 30               647              2,589              -                183            1.9             7
December31                647              3,?36             509               692            7.1            21
March 31                  647              3,883              79               771            7.9            20
June 30                   555              4,438             263              1,034          10.5            23
1985/86        September30                555              4,993             383             1,417           14.5            28
December31                555              5,548             504              1,921          19.6            35
March 31                  462              6,010              66             1,987           20.3            33
June 30                   462              6,472             467             2,454           25.0            38
1986/87        September 30               462              6,934             308             2,762           28.2            40
December 31               462              7,396             305             3,067           31.3            41
March 31                  370              7,766              21             3,088           31.5            40
June 30                   370              8,136             345             3,433           35.0            42



Pagc 2
Table 4 - Edimat  and Actual IDA Crodit Disbursemets
SAR Estimate                             Actual
IDA            Quarter Ending             Quafter            Cumulative          Quarter          Cumulative      % Disburwd      Actual as S of
Fal Year                                   Disbuemnwa          Disbuwement       Disburwement       Disbursement                      Fsimates
- (SDR'000) -----------------                         -------- ( )-------
1987/88         September 30                 370                8,506               460              3,893            39.6              46
December31                  277                8,783                181              4,074            41.6             46
Mach 31                     277                9,060                172              4,246            43.3             47
June 30                      277               9,337                 -               4,246            43.3             45
1988/89         September 30                 185                9,522               168              4,414            45.0              46
December31                   185               9,707               254              4,668             47.6             48
March 31                     93                9,800               223              4,891             49.9             50
June 30                       -                9,800               389               5,280            53.9             54
1989/90         September 30                   -                9,800               206              5,486            56.0              56             s
December 31                   -                9,800               380               5,866            59.9             60
March 31                      -                9,800               262              6,128             62.5             63
lune 30                       -                9,800              1,053              7,181            73.3             73
1990/91         September 30                   -                9,800              383               7,56A            77.2              77
December 31                   -                9,800               133              7,697            78.5              79
Mach 31                       -                9,800               344               8,041            82.1             82
June 30                       -                9,800               211               8,252            84.2             84
1991/92         September 30                  -                 9,800              588               8,840            90.2             90



- 28 -
Table S - Key Implementation Indicators - l'idza Hills RDP
Unit        SAR Eatimate           Actual             Variance
1. Credit (Seasonal Items)
Maize seed                                          mt                270                150                -120
Groundnut seed                                      mt                 27                n.a
Wheat seed                                          mt                  9
Bean seed                                           mt                108                 -
CAN fertilizer                                      mt               1,306                n   "
20:20:0 fertilizer                                  mt              2,087                n.e
Dipterex insecticide                              packets          214,800             1,698             -213,102
Feeder cattle                                       No.               750               755                  + S
Value of sasonal credit                           MK'000             1,567             1,631                 +64
Value of medium-term credit                      MiK'000               55                58                  + 3
2. Incremental Credit Area
Improved nuize                                      ha              8,590              3,750               -4,840
Inproved maize/beans                                ha              2,150                n.a
Groundnuts                                          ha                352                n.e
Potatoes                                            ha                300                n.a
Wheat                                               ha                300
3. Civil Works Consucted
Staff houses                                        No.               126                101                 -25
Offices                                             m'                352                n.a
Training centre (mcl. offices)                      No.                -             I renovated              + I
ADMARC input shed                                   No.                 2                 2
Livesockdips - new                                  No.                 0                 3                   + 3
Livestock dips - renovated                          No.                 9                 9
Slaughter slabs                                     No.                 2                 3                   + I
Poultry distribution houses                         No.                 3                 6                  + 3
Water points                                        No.               600                684                +284
Water supply, maintenance stores                    m'                 55                55
" Including 2,495 tons of Ure, 2,816 tons of CAN and 32 tons of S/A (not all applicable to the project).
2i Including 2,799 tons of 20:20:0 and 1,209 tons of DAP (no; all applicable to the project).



- 29 -
Table 5A - Key Implementation Indicators - Lilongwe NE RDP
Unit      SAR Estimate        Actual          Variance
1. Credit (Seasonal Items)
Maize seed                                    mt              184            225               +41
Groundnut seed                                mt              180             n.a
CAN fertilizer                                mt            1,214            n.a
20:20:0 fertilizer                            mt            1,786            n.a
Dipterex insecticide                        packets        148,320            -
Daconil fungicide                             ha              165             120              -45
Tobacco nursery inputs                        ha            1,200           1,300             +100
Feeder cattle                                No.            1,500            966              -534
Dairy cows                                2-cow units         525             102             -423
Value of seasonal credit                   MK'000           1,482           3,006            + 1,524
Value of medium-term credit                MK'000             172            190               + 18
2. Incremental Credit Area
Improved maize                                ha            7,416           5,625            -1,791
Groundnuts,                                   ha            2,250             n.a
Tobacco                                       ha            1,200           1,200             +100
3. Civil Works Constructed
Staff houses                                 No.              120             120
Offices                                       m2              345             n.a
Training centre (incl. offices)              No.               -         1 renovated            + 1
ADMARC input shed                            No.                2              2
Livestock dips - new                         No.                3              3
Livestock dips - renovated                   No.               18             14                - 4
Slaughter slabs                              No.               S               S
Poultry distribution houses                  No.               3               3
Water points                                 No.              880           1,126              +246
Water supply, maintenance stores              m2               70             70
" Including 5,931 tons of CAN plus 3,501 tons of Urea and 97 tons of S/A (not an applicable to the project).
2/  Compound fedilizer: 23:21:0+4 (4,640 tons) and DAP 1,883 tons (not all applicable to the prject).



-30                                          Page I
Table 6 - Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
SAR                                Actual
1. Incremental Production (MT)
Maize local                                    628                               2,360
Maize improved                               12,106                              4,800
Groundnuts                                     141                                210
Beans                                          199                               1,430
Soya beans                                      -                                  425
Potatoes (including vegetables)                515                               5,030
Tobacco                                        207                                 161
Wheat                                           80
Meat                                           n.a                                 406
Milk (I'000)                                   600                                 367
2. Yields (kg/ha)
Maize local (Dedza Hills)                     1,200                                900
Maize local (Lilongwe NE)                     1,500                              1,300
Maize hybrid (Dedza Hills)                    3,000                              2,500
Maize hybrid (Liongwe NE)                     3,400                              2,700
Groundnuts                                     480                                 400
Tobacco                                        450                                 423
Beans and/or soya beans                        400                                 250
Potatoes                                      6,000                              4,500
B. Economic Imoact
Economic Rate of Return:                         17%                              12.3%
Underlying Assumptions:
Benefits                      Crop and livestock product        Crop and livestock product
Crop Prices                   Import/export parity prices       Import/export parity prices
at farm gate for all the crops
excluding potatoes and vegetables for
which local farm
gate prices have been used.
Livestock Production              For milk and meat import         Same
parity prices at farm gate
Fertilizer                        Import parity prices at          Same
farm gate
Family Labor                      One-half minimum wage            40% of minimum wage = (MK 1/day)
Shadow Exchange Rate              Equal to official exchange rate  Same



- 31 -                                        Page 2
Table 6 - Project Results
C. Financial Impact
Net Return Purchase (MK)             Without Project     Appraisal Estimate      PCR Estimate
Local maize (Dedza Hills)                232.5                314.5                  262.5
Local maize (LUongwe NE)                 340.5                404.5                  382.5
Hybrid maize (Dedza Hills)                  -                 491.6                  318.0
Hybrid maize (Lilongwe NE)                  -                 611.6                  378.0
Groundnuts                               212.0                381.0                  301.0
Tobacco                                  505.4                992.4                 1,010.4
Beans and/or soya beans                   93.7                281.2                  168.7
Net Return Per Manday (MK)
Local maize (Dedza Hills)                  1.9                  2.4                    2.6
Local maize (Lilongwe NE)                  3.4                  3.9                    3.5
Hybrid maize (Dedza Hills)                  -                   3.0                    2.8
Hybrid maize (Lilongwe NE)                  -                   4.2                    3.3
Groundnuts                                 1.13                 1.94                   1.67
Tobacco                                    1.44                2.68                   2.73
Beans and/or soya beans                    1,56                3.12                   2.11
Dairy fanners                              2.6                  n.a                    3.9



- 32 -
Table 7 -  tas   ovenan
Credit Agreement    Contents                                                    Status
Section
3.02          Employ consultant for livestock study.                      Complied with
3.03          Maintain position of NRDP coordinator at deputy nccretary   Complied with
level.
3.04 (a)        To help maintain farmer to field assistant ratios of about 750:1    Complied with
and other sta.ing levels the borrower will transfer staff to the
project area and furnish a schedule specifying the position by
September 30, 1983.
3.04 (b)        Ensure funding from the revenue account for staff transferred as   Complied with
a result of Section 3.04 (a) above.
3.05 (a)        Provide work plan for extension and research work, to IDA for   Work plans prepared regularly
review.                                                    but usually submitted for
review late,
3.05 (b)        Each work plan to set out the proposals for the work, in details   Complied with
satisfactory to IDA.
3.06          Lending terms                                               Complied with
3.07 (a)        Insurance of imported good in transit.                      Complied with
3.07 (b)        Goods and services financed by the credit to be used only for  Complied with
project purposes.
3.08 (a)        Borrower to provide plans specifications reports, procurement  Complied with
and contract documents.
3.08 (b i)       Borrower to maintain records to monitor progress (including  Reporting system has been
costs and benefits and to identify goods and services financed by  good but benefits evaluation
the project.                                               has not been covered.
3.08 (b ii)      Enable IDA representative to visit all parts of the project area.    Complied with
3.08 (b iii)    rFurnish the Association with information as reasonably      Complied with
requested.
3.08 (c)        Enable the Association to publish details of any contracts  Complied with
awarded.
3.08 (d)        Borrower to prepare PCR.                                    Part n of the PCR is under
preparation by GOM.



Page 1
Table 8 - Use of EBank Resources
A. Staff Input (staff weeks)l/
19822      118t984                    1985        1986         1987        1988         1989         1990        1991        Total
Preparation      14.9          -           -             -            -           -           -           -             -        -             14.9
Appraisal        41.1         16.0                -            -            -           -           -            -               -             57.1
Negotiation        -           4.0          -            -            -     -           -           -            -           -                  4.0 1
Supervision        -           0.5         9.4          10.3        13.8         11.5         8.2         4.1           6.5       6.2          70.5   L
PCR                -           -                         -            -           -           -            -            -        10.5           10.5
Toal              56.0        20.5         9.4          10.3         13.8        11.5         8.2         4.1           6.5      16.7         157.0
1/ These data are more recent updates than the data shown in the July 25, 1991 Project Performance Audit Report (Report No.
9750).



Page 2
Table 8 - Use of Bank Resources
Bl. Minion Data
Stae of Pnrc*t Cycle       Sct by;       DaMe of Repw                No. of Peoon'         Period in te FielW                           Rating         Trcad w      Type of Probkms
Appras                       IDA          March 1933                        5               April/May 1982                                  -              -
Supeviaon I                  IDA          December 1933                    1 (A)            October 1933 (5)                                2              2               MF
Supervisioan                 IDA          Angus 19S4                     3 (A,A,E)          July 1984 (10)                                  2              2               MT
Supuvision 3                 IDA          July 1935                      3 (A,A,E)          June 19SS (9)                                   2              2               MT
Supezvim  4                  IDA          September1935                   2(A,E)            OctoberI985(5)                                  2              2               MT
Supervision5                 1DA          April 1986                       1 (A)            March 1986 (N/A)                                2              2               MT
Supe*iaion 6                 IDA          November 1986                    1 (A)            September/October 19S6 (5)                      2              2               MF
Spevim?                      IDA          May 1987                         I (A)            Marh 1987(8)   -                                2              2               MT
Superviaoc a                 IDA          Deccmber 1937                  6 (N/A)"           October/November 1937 (25)                      2              2
Supervisio9                  IDA          June 193S                    4 (A,A,A,E)a'        May/June 19S8 (24)                              2              2
Sevison 10                   IDA          Jamay 1939                   4 (A,A,A,E)M         October/Noveiber 19SS (30)                      2              2
Superviion II                IDA          July 1939                    4 (A,A,A,E)          February/March 1939 (30)                        2              2
Supervision 12               IDA          Febmary 1990                  3 (A,A,A)"          November/December 1939 (25)                     2              2
Supervision 13               IDA          August 1990                     2 (A,A)           July 1990 (N/A)                                 2              2
PCR                        FAO/CP         March 1991                      2 (E,A)           February 1991 (18)
a    Ik brskseclirbn: A   Agriut  H; E  E          i
I barkast Nuamer ddays.
' I - prmn foer 2 - moere prmbk; 3 = maor peble.
P - F_ww; It - Muanaerali; T  - Technical; P   Political; 0 = Other.
'   Miim suprviuim for NRDP il, NRDP IV, Reacr, euiasio. ptoject Al the sae time.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM £NRDP) PHASE IV. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 1: Crop Budget - Lilongwe NE-RDP
I Ha Maize
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~va w t*                                                               wr Pt :1
SA            SAt    -     Aa           SA          ActuaWl
&o.qw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Yidm (klh)                               3,160 I,S                 1.3Q0        3,400        2.700        2,600             Not Usn
Nice (MKIka)                            0300          030          0.300        0.300        0.300        0.3Q0
Grt_aaa    Omi                            341          450          390         3,Q00         *10         o730
B. Vui"a co" O)
SIedt"                             .      7.5          7.5          7.5          -40           40           22
Peutilizet'                                *          36.0          -            302t         344          260''
Dipz                                             -                  -             21          -             21
Cmdit                                      -                                     45.4         48.0         37.9
Tol Coda:                               7.5          45.S         7.5         406.4         432          340.9
C.   awsMra                                340.5        404.5         3n2.5       611.6         373          439.1
Labor(mUlday)                             IQ0          305          110          145          3IS          130
D.  1m  OIKdy)                              3.4          3.9          3.5          4.2          3.3           3.4
Acual yields are based on averages for the period 1983-84 to 1989-90 as provided by LADD.
tLoal maize: 25 kg at MK 0.3/kg; hybrid MH12: 20 kg at MK 2.0/kg.
Prices of feftilizers: CAN at MK 42/50 kg bag; 20:20:0 at MK 44/50 kg bag; Sulphate of Ammonia at MK 38/50 kg bag.
4 50 kg of Sulphate of ammonia.
" 200 kg of 20:20:0 plus 150 kg of CAN.
4 200 kg of CAN plus 200 kg of 20:20:0.
100 kg of CAN plus 200 kg of 20:20:0.
4 Interest at 12.5%.



PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 2: Crop Budget - liloprwe NE-RDP ad Dcdza Hills RDP
I Ha Grondaua (Chaiom)
Without Pojc*t                                  With PrMoct
No Spraying with Daconil             Sprmyed with Daconil
SAR             SAR               Actual          SAR                  Acual
A. Outu
Yield (kg&a)                                     300             480                400             800                Not Uscd
Prie (Jkg)                                       1.00            1.00               1.00           1.00
GM"u Revete (K)                                  300             480                400             800                                           w
B. Variabk Cod* ( K
Sed                                               88              88                 88             88
Devil siy                                          -                                -               210
1 Co tof qrsycr                                                                     -               60
CM"dit                                             -              11                 11             45
Toal Cods:                                      88              99                 99             403
C. Om"l4argi/aX                                      212            381                301            397
I.abor (md/day)                                   187             196               180             218
D. _om (MKIdaI) 1.13                                                1.94              1.67            1.82
"   Actual yields are based on averages for the period 1983-84 to 1989-90 as provided by LADD.
21   80 kg/ha at MK  1. I/kg.
31  Interest at 12.5%.



- 37 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVPLOPMENT PROGRM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MA
ANNEX 1: Table 3: Crop Budget - Lilongwe NE-RDP
I Ha Tobacco
SAR      |     SMA|    Actual
A. Output
Yield (kg/ha)"               350             450             423
Price (MK/kg) 2              1.9              3                3
Gross Revenue                665            1,350           1,269
B. Variable Costs
Seed 
Nursery                      13.9            13.9           13.9
Fertilizer                    128            304             216
Credit "                     17.7           39.7            28.7
Total:                  159.6          357.6            258.6
C. Gross Margin               505.4          992.4          1,010.4
Labour (md)                  350             370             370
D. Income (MK/md)              1.44           2.68            2.73
Actual yields are based on average for tbo period 1983/84-1989/90 as provided by LADD.
Higher prices for the with project situadon are due to better quality and grading.
7.4 packets/ha of Daconil at MK 0.92/packet, plus 7.4 packetsha of Dithane at MK 0.96/packet.
With Project: 100 kg of CAN at MK 42/50 kg bag, plus 50 kg of 20:20:0 at MK 44/50 kg bag
With Project SAR: 100 kg of CAN plus 250 kg of 20:20:0
With Project Actual: 100 kg of CAN plus 150 kg of 20:20:0
ittes at 12.5%.



- 38 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 4: Crop Budget - RDP and DHRDP
I Ha Beans (Intercropped with Maize)
Without Project          With Project
SAR             SAR            Actual
A. Output
Yield (kg/ha)                 150             400             250
Price (MKIkg)                0.75            0.75             0.75
Gross Revenue               112.5           300.0            187.5
B. Variable Costs
Seed"                         18.8           18.8             18.8
Fertilizer 
Credit 
Total:                   18.8             18.8            18.8
C. Gross Margin                93.7           281.2            168.7
Labor (md)                     60              90              80
D. Income (MK/md)              1.56            3.12             2.11
At 25 kg/ha at MK 0.75/kg.



PROJECT COMPIllN RISPRT
MALAW
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM MRn e.PHASE iv CREDIT 1343-MA
ANNEX 1: Table 5: Crop Budget - Dedza Hills RDP
I Ha Maize
WV*ma Pijec                                        WI* Pediee
(Lacal Maize)    -      a8 -   ) ''(H*uid)                   -               (Cwuyi)
sAl          SAR         Actual        SAR         Actua         SAR              Actua
A. Om"
ree (4A)                                 sU3         1.200        900         3.0O0        2.500        2.250            Not Uatd
rie (MIka                              030           030          0.300       0.300        0.300        0.300
Gn_ Sever (M)                            20           360          270         900          750          675
S. Vaab emu Om
Seed'                                    7.5          7.5          7.5          40           40           22
-   _  .  -  38.0        -           302'         344'         260'
-  =_   -   -   -         211         -            21
4S.4         4320        37 9
7.5        45.5         7.3         40 .4         432         340.9
232.5        314.5        262.5       491.6         313         334.1
120          130         1O0          165          113          150
.9          2.4         2.6          3.0          2.8          2.2
Actual yields are based on averages for Ihe period 1983-44 to 1989-90 as provided by LADD.
Local maize: 25 kg at MK 0.3/kg; hybrid MH12: 20 kg at MK 2.01kg.
Prices of fertilizers: CAN at MK 42/50 kg bag; 20:20:0 at MK 44/50 kg bag; Sulphate of Ammonia at MK 38/50 kg bag.
50 kg of Sulphae of ammonia.
'  200 kg of 20:20:0 plus 150 kg of CAN.
200 kg of CAN plus 200 kg of 20:20:0.
100 kg of CAN plus 200 kg of 20:20:0.
s Interest at 12.5%.



- 40 -
PROJECT CQMPLETION REPORT
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 6: Crop Budget - Dedza Hills RDP
I Ha Potatoes
Without Project             With Project
SAR               SAP              Actual
A. Output
Yield (tllha)                    3.400              6,000             4,500
Price (MK/kg)                     0.50                0.5               0.5
Grou Revenue                     1,700              3.000             2,250
S. Variable Costs
Seed "                             500                770               770
Ferdlizer"                         38                 176               176
Dithane-                                              66                66
Credit                              -               126.5             126.5
TotaL'                         538             1,138.5           1,138.5
C. Gou Margin                      1.162          .  1,861.5           1,111.5
Labor (md)                         275                336               260
D. Income (MK/md)                   4.23               5.54              4.28
1,000 kg/ha, retained seed without project, purchased seed with project.
2z  50 kg of Sulphate of ammonia for without project, and 200 kg of 20:20:0 for with project. Prices:
sulphate of ammonia at MK 38/50 kg, and 20:20:0 at M1 44/50 kg bag.
2 kg/ha at MK 33/kg.
Interest at 12.5%.



- 41 -
PROJECT CQMPLEIN REPOFRa
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELQPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 7: Stallfueder Model -
Gross Revenue for Finishod Steer Sold at Cold Stomg
A. ASsumP1o1S:
Grade of steer at fimis                          Chois.
Liveweight at star (kg)                             275
Liveweight at rfish (kg)                            422
Cold dressed weight at fiush (kg)                   228
Price (MX/kg cw)                                    4.5
-    GrI s Value of Mat Prodtica (MK)               1,026.
C. Vaale Cost (MK!:
Pwrhs of feeder steer                             440.0
Handln charg                                       70.4
Salt 1.                                            36.0
Feed "'                                            81.6
Credit'                                            SS1
Tookb                                        683.0
D. Gros Ro u (MKX)                                   343.0
AT MK L6/kg 1w.
2l  At 16% of *a l of pwd     eedsO .
31  9 kg d sa  at MI 44/k4
680 kg4  Mad   at MI 0.12/kg
Shoreter loa for the pwchm  of seu, interes    12a5%.



- 42 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 8: Dairy Cow Program -
Two Cow Unit: Estimated Gross Revenue
A. Invustmen Costs
I In-af heifers (two animals UA bred)"                           860
Spray pump                                                       420
Milk chums                                                       120
Total:                                                1,400
B. Opeating Cost
Maize bran                                                     128.4
Daiy ation N                                                    43.0
Sak                                                             60.0
Dmpg                                                           160.0
Rhodes gusa sed                                                 72.5
Manure (fahm produce)                                            -
Labor (I pemant labourer)                                      180.0
Casual labor                                                   100.0
Annual foe to building group and CREMPA                          5.0
Contribution                                                    12.0
Total.                                                961.5
C. Gtou Valu of P    _oduoa:
Milk: 1,800 Wacow/yer at MK 0.54/liL                          1,944.0
MewaL Sthed  (275 kg lw at MK 1.5/k gw)                        440.0
Total:                                               2,3U4.0
At MIK 430/hd - subsidized price - act&al price is M} 800/hd.
,   1,070 k at M       0.12/ks.
8   Two bagp at MK 21.48/bag.
4'  lhre, bapg at M} 20.0/bag.
Includign  4 InjdtIon treaumm   deworming and 4 lit. of supona acaicide at MK 40Ai.
MAt MX 15/month.
71  Medium-term loan to cover invetment costs, interest at 12.5%. Capital recovery factor over 5 year
applied.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE W. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 9: Typical Farm Budget
Lilongwe NE (Maize Farmer)
Wdbo  Prjct                                     fwdh  P                                                                     I
C--p                      crw mmO,.    Labu    G    m                    Iom        C                 C muCop N h)  |IL_       G       M hho
_____________  I   (.01 I~~1K) I}4   1    4d)                          ._____I l(n)  I(MK)   l   (MK/.d
Local Maize                    0.9           90           306.5           3.4       Local Maize           0.6             66          229.5           3.5
Phu,a                         (0.9)'         54            U4.3            1.6      Pula                (0.6)           4U           101.2           2.1
Ial Maize                     0.2           20           68.1            3.4       HybrW Maize           0.4             46          151.2            3.3
Gmndm                         0.2S          46.8           53.0            1.5      Grosadmat             0.3             54           90.3            1.7
Oshen' t0.15                                  9            14.1            1.6      Ohbcu                 0.2             16           33.7           2.1
1.30        219.S         526.0            2.4          ToWl:              I S0          230          60S.9            2.6
3 ine'                                         105.2                                                                       121.2
Based on I ha crop budgets as given in Tables I to 6.
lntercropped with local maize.
" Includes soya beans, sweet potatoes, vegetables, cassava: based on I ha bean budget as given in Table 4.
4 Family size of 5.



PROJECT COMPLETION REORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP} PHASE [M. CREDT 1343-MM
ANNEX   1:  Table 10: Typical Farm  Budget
Lilongwe NE (Tobacco Farmer)
________________  Wi*bosas Project                __________                        Walh Prcjccm
Crp                         Cp A    ()           bo       GroMrg           lacom     Crrp                Crop A     a)       Labo      Grlu Margin  Inan oc
(rnd)       IMK)         (MX/ind)                                            (mdj         (MK)          (MKIuW)
Lcla                             1.2             120         40S.6          3.4      Local Maize              1.0             110          382.5          3 5
Pulses                           (1.2)>           72         112.4          1.6      Pulses                   (1.0)"          60            93.7           1.6
loclMaize                        0.35             35         119.2          3.4      HybridMaize              0.4             46           151.2          3.3
Tobacco                          0.35           122.S        176.9          1.4      Tobacco                  0.4             148          404 2           2.7
Grour                            0.35           65.5          74.2          1.1    GCoundauu                  0.4             72           120.4           1.7
Okhen "                          0.25           15:0          23.4          1.6      OLhers                   0.3             24            50.6           2.1
ToW:                           2.50          430.0         914.7          2.1         Total:                2.50            460         1.208.6          2.6
Per Capita Jcoome *                                          132.9                                                                        2N0.
U Based on I ha crop budgets as given in Tables I to 6.
2'  Intercropped with local maize.
I   Includes soyabeans, sweet potatoes, vegetables, cassava: based on the bean I ha budget as given in Table 4.
l   Family size of 5.



PROJECT COMPLLTON REPORT
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PtOGRAM  (NRDP) PHASE IV. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 11: Typical Farm Budget
Lilongive NE (Tobacco/Dairy Farmer)
Wdhout Pjecl                                                                      Web Pwj.cl
Csop                  Cop Area (ha)     Labor       GoMx Marsin  i|coen            Crop                Crqp JAm (he)     Lab"r     GhM   p           Incme
I (mzd)         OAK)        I  ( aUd)                                                    (      PA (K)       (mdJ)
A. Ciopa'
Laci Maize               0.7             70           238.4            3.4       Locl Maize                0.5           S5           191.3          3 5
Pulac                   (0.7)'           42            65.6            1.6       Pulcs                    ().5)2         40           U4.4           2.1
Local Maize              0.2             20            68.1            3.4       Hybrid Maize             0.4            46           151.2          3.3
Guoundma                 0.15            26            31.J            1.1       Groundnar                 0.2           36           60.2           1.7
Tobacco                  0.25          t7.5            126.4           1.4       Tobacco                   0.4          148           404.2          2.7
Psture"                  1.20           ,                               -        Inpr. Pasure             1.0            -             -              .
Total:                   2.50         247.5           530.3            2.1          Totl:                 2.50         325           391.3          2.7
B. Uvesock                  -             365            94S             2.6                                              365         1,422.5         3 9
Total:                                612.5         1,478.3            2.4          Touta:                             690         2.313.3          3.4
Per Capita Iancone                                     295.7                                                                          462.3
"   Based on I ha crop budgets as given in Tables I to 6.
Intercropped with local maize.
' I Inimprisved palsture.
*   ltjais.a.u N1.eper/KlUiues gr.us. Relative pr4iduction costs and bene-its included in the dairy model as presented in Table 8.
'   lndy %1si, of 5.



PROJECT COMPLETlON REPORT
MALAM
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDPI PHASE IV. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 12: Typical Farm Budget
Dedza Hills - EPA 5 and 6
Crop                   Ctrp Area      Labor  |G naM ua           Income Crep Crop           Co e   )           bo Q., Mar&             I..n
a)       I   (md          O            (O/md) v                                    (old)        (MK)          MKand
Local Maize               0.9           108         2093           1.9      Local Maize          0.6           60         IS7.?          2.6
Pulses                  v(0.9)t         54          U4.3           1.6      rulses              (06)v          4S         101.2          2.1
L4aCl Maize               0.2           24           46.5          1.9      Hybrid Maize        045          50.9         143.1          2.R
Grundauta                 0.2          37.4          42.4          1.1      Pulns               (0.45) -       36          75.9          2.1
Poaoes'                  0.1          27.S         116.2          4.2      Soyabeaa            0.10            6          16.9          2.1
.Grundmus           0.10           la         30.1           1.7
Potatoes            0.15          39         166.7          4.3
Toal:                   1.4         250.9         498.7          2.0         Total:            1.4         259.9        691.4          2.7
Per Capita Incoae                                   99.7                                                                  138.3
"   Based on I ha crop budgets as given in Tables I to 6.
2! Intercropped with local maize.
Intercropped with hybrid maize.
4   Includes vegetables.
" Same as beans.
Family size of 5.



PROJECT COMPLEnTON REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURLAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDPU PFH ASE IV. CREDrr 1343-MAM
ANNEX 1: Table 13: Typical Farm Budget"
Dedza Hills - EPA 7 and 8
_  iP                          .ith Prjc
Crp                   Crp  AM         LArW GFr o    MaqOn   ome              Crqp           Crop Ame (ha)    Labor    Gnrs Mafi,        neorne
_b_) JOLLdL (M14,                                                                   Cud) .  (m            Im
ocal Maize                0.S          96            186           1.9       Local Maize        0.56          56.0        147.0         2.6
Pulses                   (0.3)'        48             75           1.6       Puaea            (0.56)21       44.J         94.5         2.1
Local Meize               0.2          24           46.5           1.9       Hybrid Maize       0.40         45.2         127.2         2.3
Potatoes                  0.2          55           232.4          4.2       Pulses            (0.40)         32.0        67.5          2.1
Po.atoes"          0.24         62.4        266.8          4.3
Tota:                   1.20         223          539.9          2.4          Total:           1.20        240.4        703.0         2.9
Per Capita Incone                                    108                                                                  140.6
"   Based on I ha crop budgEts as given in Tables I to 6.
'  Intercropped with local maize.
Includes vegetables.
"   Intercropped with hybrid maize.
Family size of 5.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAL
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE W. CREDIT 1343-MA!
ANNEX 1: Table 14: Total Project Cfop Afea v
Cropl                            Writheit 1peject                                Wlb Project                     lacremeutal
MD        Hills | Llksbwe NE. |    ltal       Dedt Hills   Lib"gewe NE i    Totll_
Maize local           34,000         30,200          64.200         30,600          28,500         59,100          (5,100)
Maize hybrid            900           2,000           2,900          1,500          2,900           4,400            1,500          00
Beans                 10,000           1,300         11,300         11,000           1,500         12,500            1,200
Groundnuts             1,700           1.600          3,300          1,500           1.500          3,000            (300)
Potatoes               1,300             -            1,300          2,100             -            2,100             800
Soya beans               -               -               -           1,200            500           1,700            1,700
Tobacco                  -             1100           1,100             -            1,300          1,30C             200
Totak           47,900          36,200          84,100        47,900          36,200          84,100              -
t  Dsba rhe wihoulsiuaionderied rom LADD'sprogessfePOs 1990 br bothDedua HisandtIongweNd For thepurposeo eslimatinglheincremenlkproduction derived kom pw>ject
related activities. Oe same aopped aea wr the with project situaion has been maintamed but actual changes mn Ihe aopping pattern have been introduced



- 49 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE tV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Tabl IS: Total loIncrmmdl Crop Production 11
Without Projlct           With Project
Yildd     Productdo      Yield      Productioa    lcremental
(ton/ba) I    (too)      (toe/ha) I    (too)          (ton)
A. Dedan Hils
Maize local           0.8         27,200        0.9        27,540           340
Maize hybrid           2.2         1,980        2.5         3,750         1,770
Bcans                 0.15         1,500       0.25         2,750          I,250
Groundauts             0.3          510         0.4          600             90
Potatoes               3.4         4,420        4.S         9,450         5,030
Soya beaus                                      0.25          300           300
Tobacco                              .
B. LJougwo NE
Maize local           1.16        35,130        1.3        37,050          2,020
Maize hybrid           2.4         4,800       2W7          7,830          3,030
Beans                 0.15          195         025           375           180
Groundauts             0.3          480         0.4           600           120
Potatoes                .
Soya beans                                      0.25          125           125
Tobacco               0.35          385         0.42          546           161
"   Yield 'ampdon daWd h.v  1 ha ap budes (Table 1 to 6) Cropped ae    um in Tble 14.



- 50 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAW
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE rV PROJECT, CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Tabk 16: Total Incremental Elvestock Productlon
Producwoo/Ulit No. ot UnitsI Tota Production
A. Stfadleedr_            _
Meat                    228 kg          1,721            392 tons
B. Dah7 Catte 2/
Milk                   3,600 Ut.          102         367,200 lit.
Meat                    138 kg            102             14 tons
Bad o the ualfd modbl m   m  iA Tab  7.
Vd B a th dairycau co mod Iasm in Ta* &



- 51 -
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEEX 1: Table 17: Financial bnd Economic Prices
Unit         Financial (NM)         Economic (MUX)
A. Crops"
Maize                         ton                 300                    656
Groundnuts                    ton                1,000                   826
Tobacco                       ton        1,900 (without project)       4,848
Tobacco                       ton         3.000 (with prject)          4,848
Beans                         ton                 750                   1,192
Soya bea                      ton                 750                   1,192
Pottoes                       ton                 500                    S00
B. Livestck Product"
Meat                          kg/lw               1.6                    3.7
Milk                          lit.                0.54                   0.80
"   Economic pric  of crops as tha  ued in Malawi NRDP m PCR (May 1990).
u Deailed calculation of economic pice of mam and milk le given in Table 18 and 19 spectively.



- 52 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NABONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT, CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 1S: Ecooomic Price of Meat
(1995 - USS/ton)
1. Projected price in 85 constant terms                     1,790
2. Price in 1990 constant terms                             2,634
3. Cif Blantyre                                             2,719
(1995.MK/ton)
4. Cif Blantyre (MK/ton) 3/                                 6,933
S. Handli  changes (10%)                                     693
6. Transport to market '-_
7. Price at market                                          7,682
S. Conversion factor                                         0.48
9. Price (Iw)                                               3,687
10. Tramport (arm whoesal_at
11. Farm gte prce (MK/toU)                                   3,715
12. Fans gae prce (MX/kg 1w)                                  3.7
13. Farm SW pnM  f&ad (MX/    1w)                             1.6
14. Cowvenia  aca                                             2.3
/  Wol Da k pic p*ow  anuuy 1991
MUV L4717 apple
US U I - MXz2S
4'  400 km rnu    trip at MX 0.14/t im



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM Q4RDP) PHASE W. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX l: Table 19: Economic Price ol Milk
tNo. Fat Dried Milk       Butter Fat       RRecoasiluted Milk
.................................................. 199S...................
1. EEC - Fob price (1985 constant price) USS/lon                            691
2. New Zealand - Fob price (19S5 constant price) USS/ton                                         1,880
3. Fob prices in 1990 terms v                                              1,017                 2,767
4. Cif price Lilongwe (USS/ton)                                            1,167                 2,917
s. cir price Lilongwe (MK/lon) 2v                                          2,976                 7,438
6. Handling changes (12%)                                                   3S7                                                          VI
7. Price ex port                                                           3 333                 ,331
S. Transport to dairy pbant (3%)                                            100                   250
9. Price ex dairy plant of elements                                        3,433                 8,581
10. Cost of non fat dried milk (9.5%)                                                                                   326
I i. Cost of butter fat (3.5%) S3
Sub-total:                                                                                                           626
12. Cost or reconstitution (5%)                                                                                          31
13. Preference bonus for fresh milk (10%)                                                                                63
14. Conversion kg/litre (5%)                                                                                            -1
Prce of Milk Ex Dairy rbodt (MK/1,000 I)                                                                             751
iS. Cost at milk collection centre (7%)                                                                                  51
Total Production Cost (MK! ,O00 1)                                                                                   804
Total Productioe Cost (MK/I Economic)                                                                               0.80
16. Financial Farm Gate Price                                                                                          0.54
17. Conversion Faclor                                                                                                   1.48
"  MUV of 147t1s Fppied
21 USS I - MK255



PROJECT COMPLETlON REPORT
NATIONAL RURAL DELOpm                PROGRAM (NRDPp PfAsE   . CREDIT 1343-MU
ANNEX 1: Table 20: Estimated Production Cost in Economic Tenns
(With Project)
A. Crops                -                                                 I              I '                           I
Maize Local        Maize Hybrid         Pulses       Tobacco       Groundnuts        Potatoes
Seed                                      7.5                40.0              18.8             -            88.0            770.0
Feililizer                                 -                330.0                -          211.0              -             172.0
Chenicals                                   -                   -                -              -              -              66.0
Labor (family)                           110.0               115.0             80.0         370.0           180.0            260.0
Other (nursery cost)                                            -                -           13.9              -               -
Total:                             117.5               485.0             98.8          594.9          268.0           1,268.0
B. Livestock Production               (MKlUnit) '
StaUfeeder unit                           728
Dairy 2 cow unit                         1,126
llawd 4in I fa cntp budgets as given in Tables I to 6.
I n      ro-ir, .4 icnala,cr arc Ibsiac used in the M,lawi NRDP Ill. PCR (May 1990). Family labour costed at MK l1nd.
*Iaesd .m the ondcks as given an Tables 7 end 8; family labour costed at MK I/md.



- 55 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAM
InATONAL RURAL DeVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE tV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANEX 1: Table 21: Project lncrementlal Operatiog Costs (Eeonomic)
Without Project            Wltb Project
A. Crops                       Cost/ha it   Total        Cost/ba t       Total      Increimental
(NiK)     (NItKW0)       (NIK)        ( llK'OOO)    (NIK'OOO)
Dedza 11111l
* Maize local                     105        3,570          118          3,611          41
* Maize hybrid                    400          360          485            728          368
*Beans                            99           990           99          1,089          99
- Groundouts                      275          468          268            402         (66)
* Potatoes                        813         1,057        1,268         2,663         1,606
* Soya beans                                                 99            119          119
* Tobacco                                       *
Sub-total                               6,445                       8,612        2,167
Ulongws NE
* Maize local                     los        3,171          118          3,363          192
* Maize hybrid                    400          800          485          1,407          607
*Beam                              99          129           99           149            20
* Gtoundnuus                      275          440          268            402         (38)
*Potatoes '
Soya beans    .                                             99            S0            50
* Tobacco                         492          541          595           774           233
Sub-lotak                               S,081                       6,145        1,064
TOTAL CROPS:                           11,526                      14,757        3,231
Incrementll
(MK'000)
B. Uveatock  rodi lo31
Stalifeeder uwk (1.721 uIti)                                                         1,253
Dair, 2 cow u.k (102 unh)                                                              115
Subl"                                                                             136
TOTAL PROJECr                                                                    4,599
st DetlA are givem b Table I to 6.
Details ae gien bm Table 20.



- 56 -
PROJECT COMPLETI ,ON UPORT
MALAY
NAONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRORAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MS
ANWEX 1: Table 22: loIuatos/Defiaton 1983/84.1990/91
Consume PrksI    Flnancial      Coususoer    loflator,      Delaton
l     Indexx       |  Year      I Price I       dox
Year          (1983lOO)
1983              75.2
1984              90.5          1983/84         79.0         2.92         1.00
1985             100.0          1984/85         92.9         2.48         1.18
1986             114.0          1985/86        103.5         2.23         1.31
1987             142.8          1986/87        121.2         1.90          1.53
1988             191.1          1987/88        154.9         1.49          1.96
1989             215.0          1988/89        197.1         1.17         2.49
1990             234.0          1989/90        2193          1.05         2.78
1991             221.03'        1990/91        2308          1.00         2.92
*t SOWwu bIm ioa.uL Fbmaa Sa hd  (3M?: March 1991).
V   From AprdI 1. March 3L
3   Bqim.i.t 1991 * (miasma adt"a).



PROJECT COMPLEMION REPORT
!ATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMERT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV. CREDrr 1343MAI
ANNEX 1: Tabl 23: Total Project Cost by Compost
(Cusrmo MK'WO v
(Pg  I)
C_mpoes                     19/3/14    1394/35    1935/6        1986/17     1917/811     193/3        3939/90      19 901       Total
1. Extension                 S6.6        181.6       96.0        132.3       203.4         62.3        41.4         72.7        £511.
2. Training                  40.4         62.7       156.0       99.4        $39.1         74.6        171.5        197.5      1,341.2
3. Research                   0.2         0.1         6.0         31.6        22.0          3.3         4.3           -          68.0
4. Horticulture                -            -         2.2         2.0          2.6          1.9          0.7                      9.4
5. Land husbandry              -          9.3         29.5       33.6         17.4         2.9          9.9           -          102.6
6. Livestock                   -           305.1      61.3       122.0       339:0        263.6         13.9         15.7        921.3
7. Credit and marketint        -         202.0       934.2        10.7         7.6         33.3      2,651.1          -        3,817.4
S. Mon. and evaluation        2.6         14.0        10.3        33.6        2S.0         21.1         7.1          14.2        128.4
9. Programme HQs LADlD       372.6       712.9      1.162.4    1,055.1       932.6       1,641.2      3,168.9     2,225.3      11,977.2
10. Soseboks                    -         125.2      109.0       553.4        151.0      1.460.2       320.5       1.601.t     4,326.1
Total:                     478.4      1,413.6     3,267.9    2,078.7      2,244.9      3,543.9     6,389.3      4,327.2     24,043.9
V As gwu in PM . Ta   3.
Smrre: Figures preoeid by Flsacila Coutretler, LADD.



PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
MALAW
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDPF PHASE Iv. CREDrr 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 23: Total Project Cost by Compomeul
(Constsant £ 99091 Prices) V
(MK'000)
(rage 2)
Co_pients                     3983/34      1934/15      "985/6     1986/37     1937J/3      1933/f        219/0        "991          To;aI
1. Extension                   165.3        450.4       214.1       251.4       310.5         73.5         43.5          72.7       1,551.4
2. Training                     111.0       155.4       347.9        188.9      803.3         97.3         130.1        197.5       2,078.4    00
3. Resarch                       0.6         0.2         13.4        60.0        32.8          4.4          4.5            -         315.9
4. Horticulture                                -          4.9         3.8         3.9          2.2          0.1            -           5.5
S. Land husbandry                 -          23.1        65.8 -      63.8        25.9          3.4          10.4           -         192.4
6. Livestock                                262.4       137.8       231.8        505.1       308.4          14.6         15.7       1,415.8
7. Credit and aurketing           -         501.0      2,083.2       20.3         11.3        13.8       2.783.7           -        5,413.3
4. Mon. and evaluation           7.5         34.7        24.1        63.8        37.2         24.7          7.4          14.2        213.6
9. Programme HQs LADD         1,105.s      1,768.0     4,153.1     2,004.7     1,389.9      1,920.2      3,327.4      2,225.3      17,894.1
10. boreholes                               310.5       243.1      1,061.0       225.0      1,708.4        461.5       1,601.8      6,011.3
Total:                      1,396.9     3,505.7      7,2S7.4     3,949.5     3,344.9      4.146.3      7,233.8      4,127.2      34,9917
'     O h mren ie a hAnne I1, TabGe 21.



- 39 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAW
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT, CREDIT 1343-MAI
.ANNEX 1: Table 24: Total Project locremtenta Gross Value of Production at Full Development
(in Economic Terms)
Price            f          _nat  locremental Gross
(MK/too)        Prod0tou 21    Value of Production
(toes)           (MI4'000+ 
A. Crops
Maize                           656              7,160              4,697
Beans                          1,192             1,430              1,705
Groundtuts                      826               210                 173
Tobacco -                      4,848              161                 781
Soya beans                     1,192              42S                 507
Potatoes 3/                     500              5,030              2,515
. Sub4osls                                                        10,378
-  a  u tok ProducUo.
Meat                      3.7 (MKikg 1w)           405               1,502
MiLk                        0.8 (MK/lie)     367,200 (lt)             294
Sub.tota.                                                       1,796
TOTAL                                                           12,174
As Om in Table 17.
2'  Deai  an pme in Table 1 fo crop pducaio  and in Ta   16 t1 r liwok productn
3/  Icludes otder vegetabke, tomatoes, ono    casva and swlt po _o



- 60 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRA  (NRDP) PHAE IV PROJECT CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 25: Estimated Project Economic Rate of Retum
Years     Investment Costs"       Incremental     Incremental Gross    Balance
Operating Costs       Benefits I
-- .                    ------(MK'000)--------------------
1             1,398                 460               1,217           (641)
2             3,506                 690               1,826          (2,370)
3             7,287                 920               2,434          (5,773)
4             3,950                1,150              3,043          (2,057)
5             3,345                1,380              3,651          (1,496)
6             4,146                1,610              4,260          (1,074)
7             7,234                1,840              4,868          (4,206)
8             4,127                2,300              6,085            (342)
9             1,967                2,760              7,302           2,575
10            1,967                3,220               8,519           3,332
11            1,967                3,680               9,736           4,089
12            1,967                4,140              10,953           4,846
13-20           1,967                4,599              12,174          5,608
Economic Rate of Retum: 12.3%
U  Ais Om i Tab 23.
A gives in Table 21: FuU dkealpms at Year 13 (1995/96).
As Om in Tabl 24: FuU delopmt a Yew 13.
Exiratd aiia openting cos baud on LADD 199191 pnovision.



PROJECT COMPCJTIN REPORT
NATONAL PYUR  DVFELOPMENT P0GRAM  NRMPHASEW.CREDMTI34-MA1
ANNEX 1: Table 26: Seasonal CrediS Uptake - Dedza hillIs RDP
1983/64 - 1990/91 (M. Tons) It
:   .   :   S        :         :        :          : NWrl ~~~~~~~~~~*u .  :      : a                :...~aIIl  :~e   IOau      :
: ~V,5V~VIS  4 :  :  tile:                                     :      ,:   anil  ELM I LU4  IIEI            Valve     I
:23.21.4#45:  W      I SIA       U Ure:   CAN   I SEES  1 6Jluts    Deans:  lSacShetsl: FUNKS I FUNlEK              INK)
k talt  1   330.75 S                                349.751  21.31 i   18.91            :     310         1:     2593:   217,121.10        ;
: 134115: t   t :   101.40 :            2 1.w  :           :  430.0  :  1S.50 :    0.45 :           :       g       :         VIA :  we :   241,t2.00:
:ktal 1  335.50 :                       :        :   121.2 : 20.51 :    12.8 :                 132:       74:    3021 1   31j,719.00:
:1I IU : nteulet :   415. 0         :             :        : 528.75 :  3I.13 :        .7& :         :     945 N:        :     Ni :    S0.9££.7:
k :ktoal I 301.10             :                  1 373.70 :  14.1£ :   40.71 ::                550        I 1 :   3390 :  341,202.00 :
a.                                                                                                                                                :
1911311  :1 taret:   3 3.0  1 42.00 :            I t..00    441.00 :  21.7  :  5.00       3.00 :            :   f15         N1A    421,100.00
k:  al :   311.B5 1   3.10 :   7.60    4 2.Y5    359.15 :   7.314:   1.316         1         50:       II::    4141       401,799.49:
a.     .                                                                            .... .             
:1i"7E0   t .arget   370.00    42.00 :             49.00)  1441.0  : 21.0 :   50.0:   3.00 :                :      A :      N/       1 :   440,059.00
a         : ktval: 1 244.75 : ;SI.tu  :   7.15 : 451.1S  1 311.51 :   9. J :  11.321                :     usa :    is5  :    6421 :   700,05.76
:.                                                                                 .                                         .        .   .
:193813U  ITiget :   31U.50   362.59 1  i2.50 : 188.70 1  488.70 1  31.10 :  123.0:  :  0.i:    11"20 :   N/A S               i/A :   973,170.40
ktal :   371.&U  :195.65 :            : 530.11 : 249.65 :  19.i  :   40.31  :          :      176 :    117 1    9152 :   992,Y44.25
1:1919": Target :   400.00 : 400.00               W. :  6.0t! I: 111.00    34.71 :   51.40   1 l7.34 :  110      221 1    7631   1,893,221.40
:iujl :   305.05 : 43.56 ;          .o :lnlO.a18: I157.65 1.  t.95 :            :   1.02 :    149:    ,77:   11001   1,671,672.60
:                                                                                                                                                 :
:199019111:                             :::::
Actual:   593.50  169.13              :454.75 1 eB.11 1 02.75:   11.07                      tB0.607 1197   1  06 1 .9: I.01,4190.&5
Incluadng hnds koin omsowes  Ksditwo to theprovision made undir lheprojeclt Acitualligures for project support crealit activities were not avi114)le.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NAMONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV, CREDIT 1343-MAI
ANNEX 1: Table 27: Seasonal Credit Uptake - LIIogiwe East RDP
1W3/U4 - 19"/Ol (M. Tons) v
:         :        :           I         :        :         :           Hyhrid            :         :         :         :         :     lo        2
:         :        1 22.20.U:            :        : :                 Ih Ii2e:            :         : lacanil  CIUI!S  HEIIIERS     Vile          :
2         2         123.21.0#45: W       2 S/A       Ur:ta      CAII  : SEE0 : 6Iuts    learns  MiSacketsl: FUDElS I fMlED  :          IHl
2 ::s:5::2 :smzsatSsStasaazzaaau:sa::a22a:::::::::::::::::=::::::::::                              -:::=       
I kfual I  311.0              :   1.05:          :  95.452  36.112   155.1;:             :      4192    252:    91242   554,ou.h:
:                                                                                                                                                 :
:191/1 S:  argt: 25.W   I                : 111.01:          : 564.0')    20.40:   93. 002                 1i13     1 %/A      NI/A:   417,524.00:
u:klul:   IS04.1 :          :   12.5 :         : 110.15: 25.48:    03.6::    Iles i    340:   11l35:   q,151.23:
:                                                                                                                                            *
i: ,;as,11: largt :  1411.1O:             :        :         :175J.84:  92.51:  130.u8          :          118 :    VIA :       IAu  1,547,021.C  :
1:         3 ktul 2   1".10               : I :                 029.05    52.10 2  15.52:            :    1914 :    324 :    9313      907,211.50 :
' 193UI9 : tuaret 1  1324."0   14?.20:            : 114.00 : 1565.80: 125.55 : 247.00               :    2519      N/A 1      N;A 2 1,652,21l.?O  :
2 k atul 2   411.00 : 13.03 2  61.10: 12 1.28e:   04.90 2 25.21 1  tG9.88                       9I2'   270         7 19511      714,912.80
MIN    I  ptarg      1124.15 2 1.20               1 O4. 0    1165.10 2 64.91 :  241.00            :V :             A :      NIA   1,406,044.00
I kttlaI    2 320.1   2 269.30          t4422 !  414.7   ! 40.09: 234.80                t      80N     411 :   1199 : 1,214,990.35
1: 1019 2 farget 2  561.30 2 561.30 1 55.94 : 914.10 2  94.1  2 103.20: 131.51:                   :     1?2 1   NI/A:  IIIA: 1,985,340.30 1
! ktual 2   451.20 2 501. 4  2          : 917.64 : 511.80 : 26.8?12    222.30 2          :      26 :    481:   15211 1 1,955,154.40
:                                                                                                                                                 :
: 19910 2 Target :  1126.64    MM50.0            9:51.on:  9*4.10   110.00:  327.51                       3 I12u   503 fl  2 1982J    3,115,916.001
ActUal 1  516.28   452.50!              9"0.91 262.80   1'2.19          4.10                           l ed :    390:   12591   2,133,69-2.ML
I9r0191  latlet              2                                                          :
Actual 2  595.90   574. 10 2          29i.l13:  641.21   158.21        31.96           1       t 1     474 : I501   3,562,590.41
V tnctudughndslromsourceskintdnto theprovWson mdeunderIheproleci. Actualliguires for project support credlit activities weic nll av3Sti)ible.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
UI 1: 1* at;   .isl*_1.iu  4iea* - _att altos OM
twtr   t              t9ESJX             l~~~~~~~~toll     11wit             tSImI          =      _. _.        ttt
§t_______________________________     lti.                                                                      l    m            t     e            l    w Atwtm ! t    a   l_wt iActual,  t e  l.m,/t  i  w
faeuarIst                11.                           34                 as       5        2?       24       20                10                54                so        r
PIm*a                    U..          3                12                 10                 4                to        1       10        I        is                Z
AuWin                    us.          I                 it                10                 4                la        S                          IB                2
Cultisators               o..
Isr"k chains             te.                           21                 1S                              4             2                          8 O
wbard  aroe              3o&                                                                20                                                    40
Sole wrfae               a..                  51        i        1       40       28        40       20       so      2z        30       It       61       6        so      20
umK  "n                  pirs                           &                 17                          4 66              3        3                11
Dairyc                    t..        10                20        2        20        2       20        2       20                2a O              20        2        2
Daily Wapieu  POP        so.                         I_____                                 to                                            4     10t         I     -     - -
tstsine   Zw:                         U.2 7.tO          43020.1I           34.596.O0         44.67l.70         S5.109.10         1340 12           144.2452 U. ..1 . So
*Uml 4p*t :                             3.91,                        S 0.  V7.054.14         26e042.40     I     .5S5.43         14. I. 24           2.689.00          .160. 0
S   t      _ * IiS



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAW
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDPI PHASE IV PROJECT. CREDIT 1343-MAI
I 1: IfM*D: Ilte29mierr  _iInt4 1 - Li&    Eert t
-a              - MM                  ii                                                                -                - stu - "tp"I/oMf
It_  lttu                                                                 1  t  ActueA l It  Actuti lte iActual                               larvaetlt |ctual t  Taret  AtV
F        Wt              mlo. e.                                         90                47       25       65                65               25                20      1I
Ptes4e                   se.          3                is                20               2U                 35                is                5                 5
licowr                   so.          2                Is                20               2U                 35                35                5                 5
Cultivteors              Me.                                              I?                                                                                                         4-
Ireak chains            go.                                              20                                  34                34                                  5
gabed wire               flts                                            140               70
SDID oprors              Ml.         20       14       40                80       44       95       13      115      43       115       19      S0        8       5o
bbeet borrow              lo.
work amen                Patir                                                                       1                         33        1       s                 5
Dairyco"                 so.         70       52       70       4        70 r      0       70       37       70       8        70       2f      70       10
Dairy &proingPAe         me.                  14                 3       3S        a       3s                                           12      10
f *t  iV_e1 War                       14.960.01         27,207.10        118655.00          80,529.70        1a2,3a6.93        191,l87.38        s9,3  . 70      69,352.20
ctmA tda:                               MO27M6           8,241.91         1,S556.00         32,277.S          14,794.50         13,558.50          5,492.00       25,925.00
Stace: LAM  t-1iu



IBRD16547
32-                                                               34s                                                MALAWI                              AUGUST 19M2
:~   (   Xj>L><  ,>NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INROP IV]
-IoLILONGWE NORTH EAST/DEOZA HILLS PROJECT
LILONGWE NORTH EAST AND DEDZA HILLS           le-
PROJECT AREA (NROP IV)
BOUNDARIESOF AGRICULTURALOEVELOPMENT DIVISIONS
I                                                     3!  <  <    ' t   < t   }    7   *  ADD HEADQUARTERS
\K Ro1 rGA ICChRI\ T                                                             EXISTING MAJORAG ICULTREPROJECTAREAS
IDA FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
va  s g p _ Of.lo             f~.ea         .z/   /  DTHER AGENCIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
1IAIN9ROADS
?-E-.-D+---1,RAII WAYS
)-,-Y----~    RIVERS
IL  R-P                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INITE RNATIONIAL BU1NDARIES
P ORTS
\ n \ \ (/XIRIJUVU KuASITLJIi 
z  A  M. B  I A
-12-                   '/                                      A                                  ? 'f1
)                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'-..
<   )         ;            j C~~~~~~~HIZUMULy
ISAN
.  LONGWE              h,ooko          M  O  Z  A  M    B  I Q  U  E
J'M                                              '',                       NkhotO 
/   gZ,    (  j        9 1 !L       >        X       t    zS         l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V VlC.bro
r >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. k1.  5  
,11     10  Z     A          Ul  0  I         40   RD   40   10 l_   14    1                        i                        L
,   C  Z   A  M   BIE      I                E.>                                                 /2FoB  
i ,,. .~~~--,,L,  . D> 7
[  2nV5JA-+ ~    ~     0        2         40)       60       I'l      100%        tl 
>)rH ^F-rfA   /  't   N  0     20      40      60             dO14   1600                         _3



IBRD 16549
MALAWI 34430'            AUGUST 1982
ZAIRE       TAINIZANI1A
r_ ZAIRE  XANzAN,A                      NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT
r. g  >>    \                           PROJECT IV (NRDPIV)
ANGOLA 1                    ?                         DEDZA HILLS SUB-PROJECT AREA
\.:J    t1MkAWI       R      -13°45s                                                 13-45'
ZAMBIA  K¶4: * ongwe
I -i.g                   e-                           Sub-project area boundary
k J .< . / +os v ~~~~~E PA bc zndaries
INAAIV                             Project Leeadquarters
NAMIBIA'       \. .ZIM8BWE             OC EA  [AA                         EPA centers
!BOTSWANA>                                                  ®      Marketing centers
34011 1   Slaughter slabs
This map has been prepared by the  3415                         A      Poultry distribution houses
World Bank's staff exclusively for       (
the convenience of the readers of                     [ /__
the report to which it is attached.                                     M     r
The denominations used and the                                     _   Main roads
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the                )Minor roads
World Bonk and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of    /             \                '-   Rivers
any territory or any endorsement  "  /                                   a
or acceptance of such boundaries.                                      Railway
.-.        -International boundaries
z          ~~~/  IN\
140 00                                 EPA  6                                   ToC hpok Lt                 1400A
/ N
/     (g   '^t yoni  /    /  \                  0/44 AIAlW
EPA5                 I (l,/                                                   -
t A l /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'1 -  1>1 
ME                               '''I\ r;J i c , J\t
int'h                                              -           w       f peZ 
Kile om                             5   10(\2tCr/
l  _._        ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ ~M O Z A M BlIQ                         o \kNeheu                ro 8/ok 



IBRD 165
33-45 'roKostvgv                              34.00                                      AUGUST 19
MMALAWI
/                    ( -.^. ,2  NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IV (NRDP IV)
{_--t              8 -:l1 9                     LILONGWE NORTH EAST SUB-PROJECT AREA
Chonde )[                                                                                                   So,;,
13'4S5) 1 3v . H < < \ z-4
N  4%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ au                                              Th gS a/ 2
,SEPA~~~~~~~ 23          <          >              <    iOtio
~~\-~~'    IornbDzud2.'                                        bona
EPA 2
.14-00   Lil                                                                                 ileo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
E                                       M kkhuzak
photo'
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' IS
,/~ ---Su6-project area boundory               o hi   is 1aa                          ZAMBIA
n                                                         h-- E PA boundaries  h   o hi a {|
zdProject headquorters                      i   o t p  of the                                          .
F13   EPA centers                                                            
@Dip tanks                                     a ,tsO atdeay                                       fioDe/ e 
1on15'  0   ~~Slaughter slobs                  L                               Kilometers o      s        to      ,5   14 IS'
d Poultry distribution houses                                                   e sn Mle s O  5 I10
(n Marketing centers                                     a
Nation capital\
Main roads                                         <<345
-0                                                 acetnefscudMinor roads  /           ZAIRE
Rivers                                                                   .  BrANA    >
.Swamps S.  t__
._ .International boundaries                 Wotrld Bank's stadff ePxclusrievely yfor  JN°A    -1   !t{W
_     ho convenience of the readers of    *        ZAMBIA   ilnr
.ne ,epott to wehicht is atta7ched                   A, Se^u~
The denom,netions used and the          I                  of sp 
boundanies shown on th, s map                         ) J  
do not imply on the pantof the   _    *>~        
Jufdgment nk tnhe legal status of  F&, IAN  8Aw       °s     
any lerrntory or anyendorsement  NAMIBIAi  \1                  CF A XN
-14-30'                    334'o/acceptence ofsuchbo7undaf1e**ot                           _BOSAN i-v 



