Document of
The World Bank
FlLE COPY-
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3382-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAIL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
PHASE IV OF TH{E
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
MARCH 17, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK 1.00         =  US$0.93
US$1.00         =  MK$1.07
SDR 1.00       =  US$1.08995
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare                     =  2.46 acres
1 kilometer                   =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)   =  0.39 square miles
1 kilogram                    =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton                  =  100 kg = 2204 pounds
1 liter                       =  1.03 US quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC        -   Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation
DLVW          -   Department of Lands, Valuation and Water
ERR          -   Economic Rate of Return
LADD         -   Lilongwe Agricultural Development Area
MOA          -   Ministry of Agriculture
NRDP         -   National Rural Development Program
SAP          -   Structural Adjustment Program
FISCAL YEAR
April - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
PHASE IV OF THE NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                Republic of Malawi
BENEFICIARY:             Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
AMOUNT:                  SDR 9.8 million (US$10.6 million equivalent)
TERMS:                   Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project, which would constitute the
fourth phase of the National Rural Development
Program (NRDP), aims to improve the socio-economic
status of the smallholder farmers in the project
areas by increasing productivity and providing some
social services. Project components would include:
(a) strengthening and expanding extension, training
and research activities; (b) assisting with farm
planning and the introduction of conservation
measures; (c) improving and extending livestock
dipping and slaughter facilities and programs; (d)
providing marketing facilities and expanding credit
activites; (e) providing potable water supplies;
and (f) strengthening project management,
monitoring and evaluation capacities. MOA would
have overall responsibility for project
implementation. About 10,500 farm families would
benefit directly from the project. The project is
subject to some risk from erosion and overcrowding,
particularly in Dedza Hills. However, the
project's emphasis on land husbandry/conservation,
adaptive research and improved extension efforts
should minimize the adverse effects of any such
developments.
ESTIMATED COST:                 Local       Foreign       Total
…US$millions---------
Extension and Training            1.3        1.3           2.6
Research and Horticulture         .4          .5            .9
Livestock Development              .3         .4            .7
Credit and Marketing               .6         .8           1.4
Water Supplies                     .8         .8           1.6
Management and Evaluation          .8        1.2           2.0
Base Costs             4.2         5.0          9.2
Physical Contingencies             .2         .3            .5
Price Contingencies               1.7        1.1           2.8
Total Project Costs          6.1         6.4          12.5
(Taxes and duties are
negligible)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
FINANCING PLAN:                  Local        Foreign       Total
… -----   US$million---------
IDA                                4.4         6.2          10.6
Government                         1.7          .2           1.9
6.1         6.4          12.5
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
------------------US$million--------------
1983  1984   1985   1986   1987   1988 1989
Annual                              .2    1.9    2.7    2.2    1.8    1.3   .5
Cumulative                          .2    2.1    4.8    7.0    8.8   10.1 10.6
RATE OF RETURN:                    17 percent on 62 percent of project costs
for which benefits have been quantified.
APPRAISAL REPORT:                  No. 4087-MAI, dated March 4, 1983.
MAP:                               IBRD No. 16547



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLC OF MALAWI
FOR A PHASE IV OF THE NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
I.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 9.8 million (US$10.6 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the fourth phase of the
*           National Rural Development Program (NRDP).
PART I - THE ECONOMYI
2.        A report entitled "Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report" (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about six
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a cli-
mate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$200 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant. GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During the same period, real
growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing exceeded 10 percent per
annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per annum. A steadily
increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP at independence to
33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows of official and
private external capital as well as by a significant increase in domestic
savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's development success has been due largely to the realis-
tic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has been
intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly productive
sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and support ser-
vices. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture, as about
90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agri-
culture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a number of
integrated rural development projects, and, more recently, has embarked on
the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious 20-year program
1 This section is the same as Part I of the President's Report on
the Fifth Education Project (Report No. P-3446-MAI).



- 2 -
for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The Government's
decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and infrastructure has
resulted in relatively slower development of social services.
6.        Under the Government's current five-year investment program,
22 percent of total public investment has been allocated for agriculture,
36 percent for transport, 10 percent for education, 11 percent for water
and health, and 22 percent for miscellaneous investments. These
allocations are appropriate and reflect the Government's continued emphasis
on smallholder development and transport, and the increased importance of
manpower development.
7.        The 1977 population census revealed that population grew at
2.9 percent per annum during the previous 10 years. Projecting the same
growth rate for the remainder of the century, Malawi's population would
almost double by the year 2000. This high rate has important implications
for the labor/land ratio, as Malawi's population density, about 140 persons
per sq km of agricultural land, already is among the highest in Africa and,
by the year 2000, will rise to 265 persons per sq km. Only 35 percent of
land area is suitable for cultivation and the available arable land is
almost fully utilized.
8.        Traditionally, the Malawian Government has been pronatalist.
Recently the Government adopted a birth spacing policy which recognizes the
health risks of repeated pregnancies and the right of choice of family
planning. To this end, it intends to permit family planing services to be
provided within the family health context by properly trained staff at
health facilities. We intend to assist Government in its new initiative by
including family planning services, as appropriate, in the proposed health
project and through our sector work, by helping delineate the linkages
between population and development as a foundation for formulating, over
the longer term, a comprehensive population policy.
9.        Malawi's economic performance during the past 15 years was
impressive. However, its economy is heavily dependent on three primary
commodity exports (tea, sugar and tobacco) and is highly vulnerable to
international price fluctuations. Since 1974, there has been periodic
balance of payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a)
rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate
and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar
and tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
10.       While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons outside Malawi's
control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services grew
rapidly. Between 1977-1980 Malawi's terms of trade fell by 40 percent.
While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to falling tea and
tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly because of the
steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The petroleum import bill
more than doubled, raising its share in total imports from 8.5 percent in
1977 to almost 11 percent in 1980.  In more recent years (1980, 1981),



- 3 -
agriculture production suffered from the recurring drought and reducing
export volumes, necessitating large imports of maize, a commodity in which
Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the 1970s. Finally,
duringl979 Malawi lost its principal access to the sea following sabotage
acts on rail lines in Mozambique. Disruptions of the transport system
through Mozambique have continued. Malawi's only alternative has been to
use air freight and road haulage as principal means of transport for
exports and imports, both of which are much more costly than rail
transport. As a result of these developments which started in 1978,
Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated sharply.  From an annual
average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid 1970s, it rose to 18 percent
in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979 before falling to 8 percent in 1980 and an
estimated 12 percent in 1981. Capital inflows did not cover current
accounts deficits and foreign exchange reserves fell from the equivalent of
over five months of imports to less than two months between 1977-1981.
11.       Malawi's fiscal position has also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
8-9 percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth has
outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government deficits
in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978/79-81/82. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around
35 percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of almost 14 percent per annum between 1979 and
1981.
12.       Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms now accounts for about 50 percent of
total borrowing.
13.       By the end of 1981, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$687 million. Debt service in 1981 (including
repayments to the IMF) amounted to over US$100 million, equivalent to
*          almost 30 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services (or
26 percent excluding repayments to the IMF). This compares to a level of
about 10 percent in the mid 70s. As commercial borrowing increased,
*          average terms of borrowing has hardened in recent years.  The average grant
element of external loans is now 40 percent compared with 80 percent during
1971-75.
14.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aims at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April



- 4 -
1982.  The other performance criteria involve phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on Government external commercial borrowing. Implementation of
the standby is proceeding satisfactorily.
15.       These short term measures are complemented by a medium term
structural adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981.
The program's principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base,
encourage efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve
the public sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning
and monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for
US$45 million was made in June 1981. Nonetheless, despite substantial
international support for Malawi, the country's creditworthiness will
continue to deteriorate in the immediate future. On the basis of loans
committed by mid-1981 and of additional capital requirements for the period
1982-83, Malawi's debt service is projected to reach over 40 percent in
1982 (including repayments to the IMF).  To reduce the hump in payments due
in 1982-84 and to keep debt servicing within reasonable bounds, Malawi has
recently rescheduled most of its commercial and official debt. Malawi's
creditworthiness is, however, expected to improve in the medium term if the
structural adjustment program is implemented successfully. While external
borrowing is expected to remain high to make up for the shortages in
domestic funds to finance Malawi's development program (in FY82, e.g.,
domestic contribution to capital expenditures was only 27 percent), export
growth is expected to average about 14 percent a year in nominal terms
during the next five years. This would reduce the debt service ratio to an
average of 25 percent over the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
16.       Over the past 17 years, Malawi has received 26 IDA credits
totalling around US$309 million and six Bank loans totalling US$75 million,
of which two were on Third Window terms. Of the Bank Group assistance,
some US$105.5 million (27 percent) was for agriculture, US$45 million
(12 percent) for structural adjustment, US$107.5 million (28 percent) for
human resources development, US$65 million (17 percent) for highways,
US$38 million (11 percent) for power development, US$3 million
(one percent) for a development finance company (INDEBANK), and the balance
of US$13 million (four percent) for water supply, technical assistance and
to finance feasibility studies for wood industries project. The first Bank
loan to Malawi was made on Third Window terms in June 1976, and the first
standard Bank loan in April 1977. The most recent operation, a
US$34 million credit for the Fifth Education project, was approved on March
8, 1983.
17.       IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 million for the Dwangwa sugar mill, a
US$0.6 million equity investment in INDEBANK, and a US$2.0 million loan to
Malawi Hotels Limited for tourism. A US$262,000 equity investment and a
loan of US$1.7 million for the production of ethanol from molasses were
approved in July 1980; another loan of US$0.5 million of ethanol production
was approved in February 1982. A summary statement of Bank Group



- 5 -
operations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects are provided in
Annex II. Project implementation has been generally satisfactory.
However, due to depressed world sugar prices, the Dwanga Sugar Corporation
is experiencing financial difficulties and has approached IFC and other
project lenders for rescheduling.
18.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy,
especially to improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and
effectiveness of public and private enterprises. Towards this end, a
second structural adjustment operation is planned fo FY84. It is expected
to continue to improve the incentives for smallholders, increase efficiency
in the productive sectors, better mobilize and manage resources and improve
institutions.  Further investments in transport, human resource
development, health and housing are contemplated as well as a wood
processing project and a second line of credit to the INDEBANK. The Bank
Group's economic and sector work will build on the previous studies (basic
economic report, sector work on energy, health and NRDP, etc.) by focusing
on five high priority areas which will, over the medium term, help Malawi
improve its economic performance: (a) agricultural productivity; (b) public
sector management; (c) external transport; and (d) the cost effectiveness
of the social sectors.
19.       At the end of 1981, the Bank accounted for 7.6 percent and IDA
and the Bank combined for 29.6 percent of Malawi's outstanding and
disbursed medium- and long-term public debt. Service on the Bank Group
debt accounted for 5.0 percent of the total debt service. In 1985, the
IDAE>BANK share is projected to be about 15 percent of the total debt
service. Major multilateral creditors, in addition to the Bank Group, were
the African Development Fund and the European Investment Bank. Other
lenders include syndicated groups of commercial banks and South African
suppliers. Bilateral lending has mainly been from Canada, the United
Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States.
Disbursements
20.       Disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally keep close to schedule. As of December 31, 1982, disbursed funds
equalled 76 percent of the total amount of effective loans and credits.
Nine of the 11 Bank and IDA-financed projects yet to be completed were
within six months of achieving the disbursement levels scheduled at
appraisal. Of the two remaining projects, only one -- the US$7.0 million
Blantyre Water Supply Project -- is likely to remain appreciably behind
schedule. As of December 30, 1982, disbursements totalled US$4.5 million
although they were scheduled at appraisal to be virtually complete.
However, all the contracts being financed by IDA now have been awarded and
the improvement in disbursements over the past several months should
continue.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT SUB-SECTOR
21.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the most important
sector in Malawi's economy, providing employment for 85 percent of the
working population, contributing about 90 percent of export earnings and
40 percent of GDP. In 1981, tobacco accounted for 40 percent of export
earnings, sugar for 26 percent and tea for 13 percent. Soils are
relatively fertile and a fairly reliable rainfall permits cultivation of a
wide variety of food and cash crops. Out of Malawi's 9.3 million hectares
of land, only about 3.3 million are considered arable--of which about
3.0 million are estimated to be under cultivation. About 82 percent of the
land is held under customary tenure; about 2 percent, freehold; and
16 percent is public land. The average small farm size is about 1.7
hectares, cultivated by a farm family of five members.
22.       Historically, economic activity has centered on the southern part
of the country, which is mainly lowland, around the commercial centers of
Zomba and Blantyre. Since independence, however, the Government has
concentrated on the central plateau and more recently the largely
mountainous northern region, where levels of income and Government services
are far lower but only 50 percent of the arable land is cultivated.
23.       Malawi's agricultural production derives from the smallholder and
estate sub-sectors. Smallholders account for 80 percent of total
agricultural production, including most food staples (maize, beans,
groundnuts and rice), raw materials for industry, and some export surplus,
which comprises about 30 percent of most agricultural exports. Conversely
the 20 percent of production attributable to estates provides 70 percent of
the principal agricultural export earnings. Maize is the single most
important food crop and is grown throughout the country on a subsistence
basis. Surplus quantities are marketed by private traders or by the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), a parastatal
body which also sells and distributes farm inputs to smallholders
throughout the country.
24.       Livestock raising is important in the smallholder subsector.
Most cattle are raised by traditional grazing methods in the less densely
populated areas and are considered by many farmers more as a source of
wealth than as an industry. However, grazing areas are being steadily
reduced by the expansion of crop agriculture and, unless the present
offtake of 10 percent is increased, overstocking will become a problem.
The national cattle herd is estimated at 900,000 head and the sheep and
goat population at about 800,000. Malawi is self-sufficient in meat, but
still imports one-half of its dairy requirements, even though recent
progress in local production has been impressive. In the past, the
Government has given limited emphasis to livestock and dairy development
and as yet has not clearly defined a long-term development strategy for
this subsector. A study of the development prospects of the livestock,
meat and dairy industries (financed by a Bank technical assistance loan) is
now complete. The findings and recommendations are being discussed with
Government to decide on follow-up actions.



-7-
Rural Development Strategy
25.       The Government's overall strategy has been to remain
self-sufficient in food crops, increase agricultural exports, raise rural
incomes and improve the coverage of essential social services. Until
recently, agricultural production has grown through expanding cultivated
acreage. However, given the arable land constraint and increasingly high
cost of reclaiming marginal lands, the main emphasis now is on raising both
smallholder and estate productivity. Thus, land use planning, land
conservation, and maintenance of soil fertility, through improved extension
and farming techniques, timely supply of inputs and reforestation have
become increasingly important.
26.       The strategy for increasing smallholder productivity has been
based on gradually improving extension, training and land husbandry
country-wide; and through more resource intensive, integrated rural
development projects in the Lilongwe, Shire Valley, Karonga and Central
Lake Shore areas. These provided essential infrastructure (roads, water,
health facilities, markets, etc), land improvement and conservation
measures, improved extension, training and research, and farm credit.
The Bank Group has extended three credits for the Lilongwe Land Development
Projects; three for Shire Valley Agricultural Development Projects; and two
credits and a third window loan for the Karonga Rural Development Project.
The Lake Shore Rural Development Project, is funded by the European
Development Fund. Located in densely populated areas, these projects
encompass about 20 percent of Malawi's population. Whereas the
infrastructural components have been implemented successfully, smallholder
marketed production has been slower to increase. In the 1970's, although
the value of smallholders, officially-marketed production grew at around
three percent per annum, compared with 10 percent annually in the estate
sub-sector, this was still impressive compared to many other African
countries. Low producer prices and inadequate extension have been
important contributing factors (paras. 34 and 42).
The National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
27.       During the mid-1970s it became apparent that these area based
projects needed to be redesigned if larger numbers of smallholders were to
be reached more quickly and effectively. Launched in 1978 with the
objective of spreading the benefits of rural development more rapidly, NRDP
sought to extend ongoing multi-component projects throughout the rural
areas by improving the efficiency and scope of farm extension, input
supply, marketing and credit facilities. Emphasis was initially on
increasing production from existing cultivated areas, coupled with
improved marketing services, instead of developing new technologies. A
phased approach has been adopted to bring each development area into full
productive potential. Administered by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
NRDP features four production oriented services: (a) agricultural extension
based on ecological zones, farm size and population density; (b) training
primarily for farmers (male and female) but also for staff at farm
institutes (of which there are three), divisional residential centers
(currently 16) and day centers (at 180 field offices); (c) agricultural



- 8 -
research by the Agricultural Research Department of the MOA; :-ihe Faculty of
Agriculture at the University of Malawi; the Tea Research Foundation; and
the Tobacco Research Authority; and (d) credit facilities to permit
receptive farmers to adopt new technologies, coupled with improved
marketing services.
Mid-Term NRDP Review
28.       In October 1981, IDA and the government conducted a joint
mid-term Review of NRDP to examine its efficiency in improving smallholder
output and raising smallholder incomes. The review concluded that
investment in rural development continues to be the appropriate thrust of
Malawi's development strategy, provided that increased attention is given
to satisfactory pricing and that needed inputs, particularly fertilizer,
arrive on schedule and in sufficient quantities. To improve the efficiency
and effectiveness of NRDP, it recommended: (a) reducing the complexity of
multi-sectoral rural development projects, focusing MOA's efforts on
production related agricultural activities with NRDP largely restricted to
investments in agriculture and water development; (b) reorganizing MOA's
veterinary extension and agricultural staff at the field and headquarters
levels (para. 41); (c) reducing the unit costs through use of private
contractors and efficient housing designs and a less intensive extension
staff to farmer ratio (paras. 34 and 41); (d) reorienting extension and
research activities towards existing farming systems (para 36); and (e)
developing a national livestock program (para. 37). Most of these
recommendations are being implemented and have been incorporated into the
proposed project. The review proposed that investments in other
sectors--rural roads, health, forestry, etc., be included wherever
practical in ongoing or forthcoming nation-wide sectoral programs. Several
ministries (roads, health, forestry, etc.) have developed or are in the
process of developing national programs for the rural areas. Because of
the past difficulties encountered in the operation and maintenance of
facilities built by the MOA on behalf of other ministries, these
investments were not as effective as intended. These programs will now
become the responsibility of their respective ministries, thereby
permitting MOA to focus on directly-related agricultural investments.
NRDP will, however, continue to coordinate and facilitate planning and
implementation of integrated rural development projects.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
29.       Assistance for NRDP Phase IV project would be the twelfth
loan/credit to Malawi for rural development .  In addition to the eight
operations noted above (para. 26), two credits (Cr. 857 and 1286) for NRDP
have been extended, to complete the consolidation of the Lilongwe and
Karonga phases of the National Rural Development Program and to begin
development, in contiguous areas. NRDP II (Cr. 992) is a wood energy
project designed to establish a national network of nurseries for
production of seedlings for sale to smallholders, to strengthen forestry
management and to carry out studies of alternative sources of energy. With
the exception of seedling sales to farmers, which is going more slowly than
expected, the project is proceeding satisfactorily. NRDP I suffered from
delays in Government's providing sufficient supervisory and technical staff



- 9 -
and recurrent budget funds, but these problems have largely been resolved
since the Government, under its structural adjustment program, first SAP,
provided the funding required to hire the additional staff.
30.       Project Completion Reports and Project Performance Audit Reports
generally have commented favorably on Malawi's area-based projects. The
Completion Report on Lilongwe Land Development Program II found an economic
rate of return (ERR) of 24 percent for the combined three phases. The
Shire Valley Phases I and II were estimated to have ERRs of 15 and 6-12
percent respectively (the range for Phase II depends upon the assumptions
regarding introduction of a new crop in which project staff were
instrumental). Despite a slow start in Phase I of the Karonga Rural
Development Project, the Completion Report and the Project Performance
Audit Report (Cr. 282-MAI, Report No. 2576, June 1979) judged the project
in general successful. There were substantial production increases,
particularly for rainfed rice. An ERR of 33 percent was achieved excluding
the irrigation component which was destroyed by a flood. Phase II of the
Karonga project commenced in September 1976 and included for the first time
the Chitipa district. Although the economic results are as yet difficult
to assess precisely since complete production data are just now available,
the combined impact of the two phases has been considerable in terms of
improved cultivation practices, additional farm output, better animal
health and the improved infrastructure the area now enjoys. However,
weaknesses also became apparent; namely, poor planning; inadequate
coordination among extension, veterinary and research staff; lack of
success in developing appropriate technical input packages for specific
areas, or finding suitable new high-value crops; and overgrazing and soil
erosion. Karonga-Chitipa Phase II (approved by Board in September 1981)
addresses these problems and is strengthening project management
capabilities. The project experienced initial difficulties due to
management and staffing problems. However, the Government has recently
appointed a new management team and the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was prepared by the Government and submitted to IDA
in February 1982. It was appraised in April/May 1982. Negotiations were
held on March 14, 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report is being circulated
separately. Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
32.       The project, which would constitute the fourth phase of NRDP,
would increase agricultural productivity and improve rural living standards
in the Dedza Hills and Lilongwe Northeast districts. It draws on the
experience gained from previous rural development projects in Malawi
while incorporating a number of NRDP Review recommendations. The project
is expected to increase Dedza/Lilongwe Northeast maize production by 10
percent; tobacco, 50 percent; groundnuts, 3 percent; and introduce wheat as
a new crop. Specifically, the project would over a five-year period help:



- 10 -
(a) improve and expand district level extension and training
programs;
(b) strengthen district level research and horticulture
activites;
(c) construct three new diptanks and seven slaughter facilities,
improve seven existing livestock dips and establish an
animal drug bank;
(d) expand smallholder credit and build marketing facilities;
(e) provide potable water supplies; and
(f) strengthen project management evaluation and capacities.
Project Area
33.       The Dedza Hills and Lilongwe Northeast districts represent around
4 percent of Malawi's total land area and have a population of nearly
100,000 farm families. Their location in the Central Region with
moderately good roads, make transportation costs relatively low and
communications good except in the height of the rainy season. In Lilongwe
Northeast about three-quarters of the largely fertile land is suitable for
cultivation of maize, groundnuts and tobacco and cattle is grazed on most
of the rest. In Dedza Hills less than 20 percent of the land is
cultivable. The soils are generally poor and much of the hilly slopes
deforested and cultivated, which has resulted in severe erosion. Maize is
the major crop grown on 75 percent of arable land, while groundnuts, pulses
and root crops, and some vegetables are secondary crops. Only 20 percent
of the rural population has access to improved water supply.
Detailed Features
Extension and Training
34.       Adequate technical packages exist to improve yields of all major
crops in Lilongwe Northeast through better land husbandry (maize), proper
fertilizing (tobacco) and improved seeds (groundnuts). In Dedza Hills
maize, groundnuts, fruit and horticultural crop production can be expanded
but major attention will have to be given to conservation. To help
increase productivity, the project would increase the extension staff:
farmer ratio of 1 to 1,000 to 1 to 800 by hiring 38 additional agricultural
extension workers. New extension staff will, to the extent possible, be
obtained by staff transfers from other project areas where staff have been
made redundant, following the recommendations of the NRDP Review, by the                       )
move to less intensive staffing levels. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that Government would: (a) not later than September 30, 1983,
prepare and furnish to the Association a schedule specifying the number of
staff to be transferred to the project; and (b) take all necessary action
to transfer funds to cover the annual operating costs from its development
account to its revenue account (Section 3.04 (a) and (b), draft Development
Credit Agreement). Since significant numbers of households in the project



- 11 -
areas are headed by women who perform a large share of the agricultural
work, they will be actively involved as extension agents and as
recipients. Farm home assistants, employed by the Department of Community
Services, will complement the work of the agricultural extension workers by
focusing on specific farming and home economic problems faced by women. As
an adjunct to these extension activities, a women's program in agriculture
and handicraft will be developed at the extension area centers. The
farmers' training program at the non-residential day training centers,
would be expanded (approximately 75,000 farmer contacts would be made over
the five year period); residential training centers improved and additional
training personnel employed. Staff training at the residential centers
would focus on extension techniques, communication and management in
addition to technical subjects (livestock management, etc.). Farmers
training would be conducted at day training centers and at residential
training centers.
35.       The extension service, in consultation with other units, would
prepare an annual extension and research work plan outlining the work
program and interfacing of training, research, horticulture and husbandry
activities. The project officers located at Dedza Hills and at Lilongwe
would oversee the preparation of the plan. It was agreed that by June 30,
1983, the Government would submit for IDA's review and approval a detailed
extension and research plan for Dedza/Lilongwe Northeast for the one year
period commencing the following October 1. Thereafter this plan will be
submitted not latter than June 30 for each succeeding year (Section 3.05,
draft Development Credit Agreement). The plan will improve the programming
of mutually reinforcing activities and ensure that necessary expenditures
are appropriately budgeted for the following fiscal year.
Research and Horticulture
36.       Research would concentrate on an applied field trials program for
which the project would finance four additional research staff, a
diagnostic survey, housing, equipment and vehicles. Research and extension
staff would collaborate closely on designing a trials program which is
compatible with local farming needs. This will be achieved by placing
research staff in project areas thereby bridging the research station-field
level communication gap. Time-swapping between the research staff in the
project areas and the research station staff will permit the latter to
actively participate in adaptive research work. A horticulture program
would be introduced in Dedza Hills whose climate and hilly terrain are
suitable for vegetables and fruit trees. The project would finance land
husbandry specialists and supervisory personnel. Land husbandry and
research staff, working in close cooperation, will carry out a crop
diversification program (fruit and forage trees, grasses) designed to
provide much-needed perennial vegetation.
Livestock Development
37.       To redress the major animal health constraints transmitted by
ticks, three new dip tanks would be constructed and 27 existing ones
upgraded. The project would also establish and maintain a vaccine and drug
bank and construct seven hygenic slaughter facilities. The necessary



- 12 -
veterinary supervisory and inspection staff would be hired and credit and
training financed. Over 2,000 animals are expected to be stall fed through
the project. In addition, a livestock policy and program review would be
carried out by Government to provide a basis for developing a national
livestock program (the Livestock Marketing Study would provide an essential
input). The terms of reference for the livestock review have been prepared
by the Government which will employ consultants acceptable to the
Association to carry out the review (Section 3.02, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The study is expected to commence by September 30, 1983.
Credit and Marketing
38.       The majority of incremental credit supplied under the project
would be of a seasonal type to self-accounting farmer groups at a
10 percent annualized rate. Repayment rates from these groups is currently
96-98 percent.  Self-accounting groups are organized farmers, who keep
sufficiently detailed records that they can receive, administer and repay
credit collectively. The group's bookkeeping details the status of
individual farmer credit. Individuals and groups, who do not maintain such
records, are designated non-self accounting and will be charged a 15
percent annualized rate. Medium-term credit would also be made available
at 10 percent and have a five year payback period. Credit would be for
agricultural inputs for tobacco, maize, groundnuts, wheat, potatoes,
feeding steers and dairy cows, fodder, seed and farm equipment. During
negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms, conditions and procedures
for evaluation for seasonal and medium-term loans (Section 3.06, draft
Development Credit Agreement). To administer the credit, a supervisor
(with office space, housing and a motorcycle) and a credit assistant (with
bicycle) would be employed. The Government and ADMARC will finance four
input stores, staff housing and equipment to supplement existing ADMARC
facilities.
Water Supplies
39.       The project would provide potable water to around 50 percent of
the population by constructing bore holes or shallow wells at some 1,500
predetermined sites and rehabilitating some 250 existing water points. The
Department of Lands, Valuation and Water (DLVW), in conjunction with
project staff and the Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza District Development
Committees, would develop an implementation program for the scheme. A
hydrogeologist would be appointed by DLVW and have supervisory
responsibility. Maintenance stores for spare parts would be constructed
and drilling equipment (rig, tractor/trailer and landrover) provided. A
condition of disbursement against civil works would be the preparation of
an area-specific plan, acceptable to the Association, for maintenance
(para. 5 (ii), Schedule I, draft Development Credit Agreement). The plan
would, in addition to specifying the location of the wells, clarify how the
village pump attendants would be selected by the communities and the type
of training they would receive to maintain the wells. It would indicate
how much of a stipend they would be given by the community for upkeep and
purchasing spare parts.



- 13 -
Project Management and Evaluation
40.       The project would strengthen the Lilongwe Agricultural
Development Division (LADD) technical management capabilities by hiring a
senior planning and evaluation officer, a chief technical officer in land
husbandry and a chief executive officer for credit accounts. Management
units in Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza would be staffed by a project
officer, assistant project officer and technical officers. The monitoring
and evaluation section of the management unit will conduct routine surveys
and be responsible for data collection and analysis of project results.
t           They will be supported by the LADD Evaluation Officer and Central
Evaluation Unit in the MOA. Sub-district headquarter facilities are
nearing completion (under pre-investment funding) and vehicles and
C           equipment will be provided.
41.       The organizational structure will be similar to previous NRDP
investments, with some modifications to conform to the NRDP Review
recommendations. The Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza project managers will
report to the LADD program manager who in turn will report to a new NRDP
coordinator instead of the chief agricultural development officer at MOA
headquarters. Under the reorganized set-up, the coordinator, who is a
deputy principal secretary, will assume overall direct responsibility for
NRDP. The Government recently appointed a full-time coordinator.
Agreement wasreached that the position of NRDP coordinator would be
maintained at an administrative level of at least deputy secretary (Section
3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement). The chief agricultural
development officer would retain the technical lines of responsibility as
would the chief agricultural research and veterinary officers but
administrative control would be exercised by the NRDP coordinator. The
coordinator would have a similar working relationship with other
ministries. At the district level, the program manager wouldassume primary
administrative responsibility for coordination of all rural infrastructural
activities, including those funded independently of the project (e.g.
roads). Since a sizeable civil works program will be required in the
project areas, LADD would retain the service of a consulting architect to
coordinate and manage construction activities including developing site
plans and controlling costs. A condition of disbursement against civil
works would be the preparation by MOA-LADD of a civil works program
acceptable to IDA, specifing designs and construction methods (Paragraph 5,
Schedule I, draft Development Credit Agreement). Consistent with the NRDP
Review recommendations, the civil works unit costs have been reduced to
reflect these improvements.
Policy Issues: Smallholder Productivity (Pricing and Input Supply)
42.       The key to the Government's structural adjustment program is to
raise smallholder productivity.  It has made progress in this regard by:
(a) increasing the prices established for the 1982/83 growing season, based
on a jointly agreed pricing methodology based on export parity pricing; (b)
rectifying the underfunding of recurrent expenditures and increasing total
outlays for agriculture from 18 percent in the previous five-year
investment program to 22 percent in the period FY82-86; (c) seeking to
address ADMARC's management and input supply problems by developing a



- 14 -
smallholder fertilizer supply and policy program, to be co-financed by IDA;
and (d) implementing most of the NRDP Review recommendations. In July
1982, the Government increased prices for the 1983 marketing season for
cotton and rice by 15 percent, groundnuts by 50 percent while maize was
unchanged and later announced a second bonus of 15 percent for dark-fired
tobacco. Recently, the Government further raised the guaranteed floor
prices by increasing the dark-fired tobacco and groundnuts prices by 50
percent, cotton 20 percent and pulses about 35 percent. These increases,
which were recommended by ADMARC's Board, represent a positive movement
toward export parity pricing and should further boost production and export
of these cash crops to their former levels. Government has already
developed acceptable international competitive bidding procedures and
invited tenders for the procurement of fertilizer for the next growing
season.  An already appraised smallholder fertilizer project, which is
scheduled for negotiations in mid-March, will assist in financing the
fertilizer supplies and the institutional strengthening of ADMARC to ensure
the timely availability of fertilizer supplies.
43.       To ensure adequate smallholder incentives, the Government would
continue to fix smallholder prices, at levels acceptable to the
Association, on the basis of the methodology agreed on in the first SA loan
(Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
44.       The cost of the project, in mid-1983 prices, is estimated at
US$12.5 million, of which US$6.4 million, or 51 percent, is foreign
exchange costs. Taxes and duties are negligible. The proposed IDA credit
of US$10.6 million would finance 85 percent of total costs, including all
foreign exchange, except for the marketing component, and 72 percent
(US$4.4 million equivalent) of local costs. This level of financing is
justified because of Malawi's low per capita income, difficult budgetary
situation and their better than average implementation record. The
Government would finance the remaining 15 percent (US$1.9 million
equivalent). Physical contingencies of 10 percent were added to the costs
of civil works, vehicles and equipment. -Price contingencies provide for
increases of 8.0 percent of the foreign exchange costs in 1983, 7.5 percent
in 1984, 7.0 percent in 1985 and 6 percent thereafter. Price contingencies
for the local costs of vehicles, equipment and supplies and operating costs
were included at 12 percent per annum and at 18 percent annually for civil
works reflecting the rising real cost of inputs as well as for civil works
construction. The cost estimates include three consultant months for staff
in-service training and a sum of US$200,000 for consultants to review the
livestock sector. The average cost per consultant month (for salary,
international travel, etc.) is estimated at around US$10,000.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       Procurement of vehicles, machinery and equipment (US$.8 million)
for orders of US$100,000 and more would be subject to international
competitive bidding according to Banl- Croup guidelines; orders would be
grouped whenever possible.  Orders which cannot be grouped in packages of
US$100,000 more would be procured in accordance with local procedures,which



- 15 -
are acceptable to IDA provided, however, the aggregate amounts of the
contracts do not exceed US$250,000. Contracts for goods and services
estimated to cost less than US$25,000, but not exceeding the aggregate
US$100,000 equivalent may be procured on a local shopping basis. Civil
works (US$4.3 million), which are of small sizes and dispersed locations,
would be constructed after locally competitive bidding or, if approved by
IDA, by force account. Consultants' services for the livestock sector
review would be procured according to the August 1981 Bank Group
guidelines.
*         46.       Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign exchange and 90 percent of local expenditure for
vehicles, spare parts, equipment and other materials--excluding the
*         marketing component; (b) 100 percent of total expenditures on civil works
if by force account and 90 percent if by private contractor-- excluding the
marketing component; (c) 100 percent of total expenditures for incremental
credit; (d) 100 percent of foreign exchange and 90 percent of local
expenditures for agricultural inputs for research, extension, training,
land husbandry and horticulture activities and veterinary chemicals and
drugs; (e) 100 percent of total expenditures for incremental operating
costs--excluding the marketing and rural water supply components; (f)
100 percent of total expenditures for consultant services; and (g) for the
rural water supply, 100 percent of total expenditures on civil works and
operating costs and 100 percent of foreign exchange and 90 percent of local
expenditures on equipment, vehicles, spare parts and materials.
Disbursements against civil works by force account, agricultural inputs
(items for local shopping only), incremental credit and incremental
operating costs would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Accounts and Audits
47.       MOA would establish and maintain consolidated project accounts
the auditor general, or by the auditor general, or by independent
auditorsacceptable to the Association, not later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year (Section 4.01 (c), draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government would monitor progress and, not later than six
months after the closing date, would prepare and submit to the Association
a full report on the execution of the project (Section 3.08 (d), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
48.       The main objectives of the project are to increase smallholder
productivity, to improve rural welfare by providing potable water and to
actively involve women in the project. A longer term objective of
retaining the soil and maintaining its fertility through land use planning
and conservation is the focus of the land husbandry component. Significant
economic and social impact is anticipated from improved infrastructure,
increased crop and livestock production and better access to government
services.
49.       With the project, production of maize, groundnuts, tobacco,
beans, wheat and potatoes are expected to increase; maize output, for
example, by over 12,000 tons, at full production. In Dedza Hills an



- 16 -
average" maize farmer who participates in the project is expected to
almost double his present gross income to about US$200. The "average"
maize farmer in Lilongwe Northeast who participates would be expected to
increase his present gross income by about 70 percent to US$239. This
income compares most favorably with the average income of farmers in the
Central Region. Farmers with larger arable land areas, that grow
wheat/potatoes or tobacco would be expected to attain even higher income
levels. Less than 20 percent of the farmers in the area own cattle, but
the improved dipping facilities and acaricides would result in greater
weight gain for the animals and facilitate higher off-take for beef and
increased milk production.  The estimated ERR for the project components
with quantifiable benefits are 12 percent in Dedza Hills, 21 percent in
Lilongwe Northeast and 17 percent overall (for both livestock and crops).
This figure encompasses 62 percent of total project costs.
50.       Sensitivity analysis shows that for the ERR to fall below
10 percent, benefits would have to decrease by 17 percent or costs would
have to increase by 20 percent. This could happen only if crop yields or
crop values were 31 percent below expectations, if farmer uptake was
40 percent below expectation, if real fertilizer costs increased by
52 percent or if construction costs more than doubled. If benefits were
delayed by one year, or if the anticipated benefits from conservation
efforts were not realized, the overall rate of return would drop to
12 percent and 15 percent respectively. The Dedza Hills area has a more
fragile environment and there is some risk that some of the benefits
estimated for that area may not fully materialize. However, even if no
benefits accrued for that area (a highly improbable situation) the ERR for
the entire project would still be 11 percent. There is a slight risk of
excessive potato output resulting in reduced prices, but the benefits from
potatoes are a relatively small part of the total.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
51.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
52.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of disbursement are: (a) for civil works,
preparation of an acceptable work program, specifying the designs and
methods of construction (para 5, Schedule I, draft Development Credit
Agreement); and (b) for water facilities submission of acceptable area
specific plan for maintainence and cost recovery (para 5 (ii), Schedule I,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
I                                                              President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 17, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
- 18 -
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             118.5                                      MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       41.4                   1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                        60.0         90.0      230.0                  250.8                    1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)              ..         48.0       67.2                   66.5                     610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        3419.0       4513.0    6050.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        4.4          6.4        9.6                   17.8                      28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                              11.9                      .                        .
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               42.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             28.9         38.1       49.5                  27.7                      54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           90.0        114.3      141.7                  86.7                      129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               45.5         46.8      47.3                   44.8                       46.0
15-64 YRS.                               52.1         50.8      48.9                   52.3                       51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                         2.4          2.4        3.8                   2.9                        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.4          2.8        2.9                    2.7                       2.8
URBAN                                    4.5          6.6        7.0                   6.2                        5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           53.0         51.6       56.1                  47.3                       47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           27.2         23.2       22.4                   19.5                      15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.4          3.4        3.8                    3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                90.0         91.0      96.0                   88.7                      90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        95.2          99.7      96.9/c                 90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                65.5         71.6       68.2/i                53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             13.6         19.0      18.6/c                 18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           49.3         45.4       39.1                   26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          37.2         41.6       44.2                  45.6                      51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                206.8        193.6      171.9                 129.9                     118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..       33.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                     ..           ..       70.0/d                54.9
RURAL                                     ..           ..       29.0/d                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..         ..                  25.8
URBAN                                     ..           ..       15.0/d                63.1
RURAL                                     ..           ..         ..                  20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              35247.4      38429.8   41007.0                 32D97.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          12917.6/e    9051.7    3833.7/c                3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  866.0        649.3      743.8                1225.0                   1036.4
URBAN                                  115.0/e      155.7       82.2/c               249.5                    430.8
RURAL                                 1312.0/e      895.7    1484.4/c               1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..         32.1       39.0
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..          3.4/f
RURAL                                     *-          5- ./g
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..          1.7/g
RURAL                                     ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..         16.0/f
RURAL                                     ..           ..



ANNEX I
19                                                Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                    ..        35.0      59.0                  63.2                     83.3
MALE                    ..        45.0       70.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                   ,        26.0       48.0                  50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0          2.0       4.0                  10.2                     15.3
MALE                   1.0         3.0        5.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 0.3         1.0        2.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 23.6            2.9        7.2/h                 7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            40.9         43.8      60.8/c                47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          13.7         16.2      18.0/h                26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        22.1/i    25.0                   34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9          2.2       1.9/d                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          O.S/e       23.5      42.6                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7           ..        ..                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.3                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..       0.3/h                  1.1                    0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1570.3       1981.5    2527.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   38.7         38.1      36.7                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.0         89.0      86.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0         4.0        5.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.9         43.9      41.8                   41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 57.5         55.3      53.6                   53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               34.8         32.9      30.3                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        32.6/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          50.67T
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        10.4/i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         21.57       . 
PoVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     123.0                 134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      99.0                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      65.0                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                             ''      52.0                  60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      25.0                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976;  /e 1962; /f 1967; /g 1972; /h 1975; /i 1966; /j 1968.
May, 1982



- 20 -                                                                           AiNNEX I
_____________________________                                                                Page    3    of    5
oNtot...t y coatrtl  OtI        ot  ftctw    ftAadditth  Istooosd coo                                  by sdO  diff-.r.r  cuaotc  to  -ol-arte   ra    ro-  r'1w car  arc,
of ohs sbet cojey stn fr                 "itlcm             i   aoco";oroas'iAds   Itos  Urr Afrc   tad fiddle  lce    1,s c                               I---toto  of srtt
colorty of roe od-trrls  L. a   -e   has date for Itr icdlc--o   flot-  0w co -ag   of IoI  trlt    nrl  Ita  lodloeror  lopeod   00 to  anoliabil                         of a  d
too  Is tot atf          ....uoa  soa  Os ca-rited to  eera   a-s.5e   of oct otlao    o.cbr   Teaoeta   o   ty  IatNIt   otyt    h   -eta  of
foa  -ToL ofts soo  coayottto  tstd tosa ro  tot1-  tort    979 dote.                                  athd   a    as)   tts    prsoropo  o   tdle   dbelt    S
dW -artoocteI.f...I         o  artaouuddesa                      -fteoooly or pI -taely                 IelatIoptIt   a    rot   aerlsdeetlld                               WIPeItre  da  r-
foto oo    -erurs.  ero   ecd           -ho t  tardea   or to  lit f.Iot; 1979 dart.                  hosblllosola       cocct     aoIe.. tot aaoblttJloaec  P. -eact,  I.ttaf
by to  Isart Ott poy-suatee.         Psrtebao         protdlog  prL-olall 1  ae,
1075  ma 194)do.                                                                                         elatcaee9      tn.claf.   t.I  fo  ofri-1erso   saoofl
delo   td   rats     lciadoor  o  sdla   loltlc. frPetC
rOttY iOtlfoO Nco   PEt C~Al00-cat  ocoptaoOace soo                                    otottyoyet P-tte   l.'ooert`at  tohoo   tsrlooa/se.thopt
aoaI oo i.   erotot  :tooloe  cd  ydc-.  uc(tt  olctrOcat  ls-          berit)ttt$ca   .tostortae    ca1t1a                       ttic)  thserrod
oroc cy)  0 01licoes o  ustt~atottn   ycoceyloo  190. 170.  rod  979  etret.   Iacla [tedrasptotc500   iLlihI.ct..ad...ore)
POPULMTIII  ca  [Itt.L OTAO?5h1ICO                                                                           -h.t..~-,1    IN
Toa   cotooo.f4-toc  ) r,h-ocaa          of a  a) -iy 1; 1960. 1970. sod 1190            HbyS)90
dat.                                                                                        ttroo   letof   cooheatotraleoattocsbed)- oea)  abe. t-ad-Cue)
acosocat            196 It., 1)70, cad4 19. daoa.!                                                    tts hoorsodfootteih papta
Pro)co os poaoce  (0 sort tr    aotc oe   of  hesI[etitst.                                  iofto -t-dpoort. 
Ir   ostpotcya   00   rrhlo    Ltluty,eptcstabo IN_o   )otoho(aoo    fdaloo(-rt)  cbc   a    te 
Each cocor   Is haI saa a   one of (hts tl    aosioO-oo   of scroaLty                          EDUCdTtd
Tetlt.roh    o   t)ooo    otse                                                                 Ad ).dtd oOrI- Itcr raios
-  ThEa   seao)ard  inlyefoso  rololly..a. sd.. l    to r.....                      sooo-sc   ror -todtt     ooctyLlocibde   ad6-LL
ti,hp.     att   Icos  If oototopot  oort,otoea4ttaooyaeOto)-ed fat diftoyca   lacgtoc of rotary su I                                                                     to;fat
satiated  oINoh  totos of ohs .         tidc.roeiotoo   b   ooloo                                      io   ca   p        Ia  c  taotit  tn   tNI dIttlat lse
'oct..c ilone. toy                                                                                      elahe. o           I
Pt 4o.ls       id-ysa  p-c -tLi   e  our  kilaetoa   1100 hoat     f                       lcatoo   aooot(co-ae   oftcoko) -   Lcastioa   tLotitatton
9 otaso10 ,017  tad 1979 adtI                                                            Loooc    catl   aurit.0   00    reato    ror   ootd
re  t.  0-satoltrl  ea   -lopoLe   o  bot  orC,loloalp-aIattdo   t  oproor  o                                                                                      IoodPyohoitotoa
onlyt 1990. 1970 eb 1d         Iot..Ppdtchrrto-olsy    o  r.ocdoy-   Tt)saeo                                                                                                 eidC
roo,lsooar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ beGtrtatleco)-lldo    dt    er  .ottcae15-                          prIary  oc   moaytet,iia)tycdteoNsePest   o
Sb  tay I.tadostre   (1  ysccetodooo)  e ctasrale o  sd-por  apa           coropoot L       soe
leolo; 10, 197. cod 1900 data.                                   .                             da)  llacyoi  (oca       itrn    lo    -l.t Ia cea  ad  onto)
fioooaooc  rora tot  certoo   - cois   -   -aooL arch   teem  of octet sd-                       Ihapomaeo   oa    dalt pot.a ior gd 15 peer  "e oNor.
yeryoiaLo    o  190A  .160-70. tad 1570-t0.
)cootaotoo Ofron taoa (receot I - ortoo - -aoIa  Ctoeo  ....a  of _rb..  opaP-          OIOO5 -iGIo*
potIctoi.10. 1977.000 -    SO data.                                                            stl~ ira  . osIc lts.                                 .PI.         .
(roo lOtoc tas lto  Scotod  - o,IItoafda        s   hoodo  ed.yta Ledio L ootLotte  Ice   Ihutodrooootoo I                                       o     Nlycrt   .of  omIns -foret
yootacootl 100  190.  ad   )0   Otte                            .. craasto    caclycbt   e  00- oaaoY   of ropaett  ) oLb
roo  totdit 00heotorret  deetofda50ste   tao   il  totto1 caott  soioosIt tiortt  nd04yeroaotareNotttt  o  rdi
Otaln Ocosts -leer  oaroa  ofcrtd ma) -LPt,   mtao   of astriLd  -ta                                   -otLc   abe tN Y..,.fottgtor                of It  ar         IN  fet
ooO  ci cloild-iter to~~~~~~ ap  (11-4. yeert I oso aea tirob-cotoro,  dootoeseo  Ncctoacor Oltoolat too Irta ohotoabe roycleolot)  - Sheen otto afisrage O,ttL,    I C!F It 1 111-  41M M .
IalcrocbeoaPrltoyt   eodt   eso    e                                to  It ooottdet
lodr o  Ood Todotto  ter C.oLoa (I%09-OLtlld) -  bs f P50 capooa ooouel                        Cloam   .o l    Potloo   a  tootl  oa   ao-roe   ate  lero
yrod-orio   of all fad     Lodtiea.   Prdatttoae   ed  o    sdtdooeetld dttog  I00 y-r  tco1aiia   alai-tac   to etactoat
Is 0  ottaaa   rtr baEa.COaditos   cosI        ptey   od   (ta. =cot-ae                      ca   mItts  oottr
loeted   f  mat)   tc Iar  table  cod c_cott  ot ....t  (..S. aoffo  tad
oct eal'aca).oaroceosorbeacic  of teat itOtII- L. beasd 00140000
ohrLoIthlooa   po-odas  Pr,c  atets   1991-65. 1970. tad 1900 deet.                                Tat-i labor Foocs lth -ordc) - aaIclysLr   eta.   utoluiog
cOo -al-  -oaoo  ofcetes(rtaifoiraste 1- l                                  far   Oo                 ta   fort   Nda aooolcyd bat toaldIc hcatia, cere to.
tote   s.[nlerof  -t  food  tpha   ria)   It aoooor  ret otIlectot;poytro    fttta.Oaoc ott   tl                                                                            tte   c
dt a.   ioe-ltblo   oritcntttdac I                    toaatoos, t. oor  teat7111                   toe conar...a)t   1990.  970 sd990 doc-
tPoe.  ta  caItt1  Oc.betppi                       souaodlfeed.  =eth.                              Prel  ltt--ro    - y-Ie  labor force. ua  oront  of o"l tedo  fort.
moot asre -sat t S  by  0  tasa  ot- ptnot0oalosd  foe corn)  wIt-                                     VitiII aetse             of oor-l lte   lo-e; 1.990, 1970 ab   19Cr40th.
oiy  rod ceto  ctaoob    eaio--                                  N oast.. od  ite I. atttatt- (eotet-L.aaofac   t  aab -ctro-n.s.esoo.o
.td .-th  tarly ofi. ofosc  eancr"a)      00m    corofptcpt                                         Peotototte(onol-oale)otd   ofoo   -. Port,, trato   0
aloeaoto  O   rnofctltrtt   otdyta   0s ofof toteal abe                                               19d40. 1970, 1  ofO  1099 beot .  Ibtsaehio  00 I ItOt tlerriaiat.              ae
potte  poooeio, of Atob 1  eras  thealN d he sINt Ip:oareto           .        .sesab-                rn[ouaart    ootoeo   1  cocIio  ae   oo   I    ted
dorl   tco .lroy   1961-65, 1970 sod 1077  et.                                                                   lbo    oca
Pr iootaceboaooy mOo at-ce  044 ci..s Proet   ecoly of foto ds-
-lot  Icc  soe)5hd poLa sto LIot   yer cay; 1961-05, 1970 ta,d 1977 dar.                        1010  nttiTltTit
(hl  (se  -)  eh lace (ott olh-oee     -        Iooa   etsytchar   tPreoaeo    too   th    00   oca   4  cLod   1- oLtd by otohe-
ZlsisooooLrth(st- iotraara-sof                           ofar   cliftrt-ettlo              fcltottc .so or tyercecaacsi ncr                                              Lacto
athth-1t . IO7ao   Ido"Oca taoLtothoti.d   heI )ttPcsooctotoecbsc.cia
of ag  poT th-,td LI1 11cc0hro  (9,0` 190ad10bot.-bttoc.a1o tot   to   ia tat~ (onteLheaehia   a I.ise
occettoSaf  doto   ercto   f corataLoch.   - ttal   oce. 0c  ro-o1 -.....caiictroly adaq-d   di., pli-  otootco-foo   rq                                         Ltseo         isto
tao-oo-hesc I lot  piece   bohoroet..  sptire. abd acoi-et  aell) t                                   ioertcoepstY    lt  Ie   to co-hird of  Inotpttpo
cacaocso    chei   tpcoo    oatoi.            oaooooao LpoortLoetf01ciay. thtacladend(o ofrrL
OroohOot   (caedho   oo  ooo10  stot  ro     (cce  oo  h       (oo  oc  ajoraoefo  tnir  ot  f  trcatoacoIttN
-oedodi    t[ti  toootti= ccs   foothce1t   oa  ees                                              ho ae   oo-oc                       hcooolorPcch  oieLoth-teo(-tt
r-aoottcceoid                09l   ha   hshoaeoeite`eoto -ht hoashe.d                                ao  cora   - OrcoI        ohI Ao-iutrto   (ot0co   oal   b  te0hs
ioo.ch..sbiop--oda-oeytIporootoocect)hh.ey                        Iroh,5h -coot.id,rlId                                                                           -
foo-L(     ?.PL
Oitoy oftt)oh.ir       Eeaec....t oaoodyrorec                      dIIrosola
ctrae     aosfostrtctclt   cplt Iort   tortc   Olpoa  coyocca
p.rateos    oddsacl    i Ph0 oho4~f.aoot ctaN-o   of                      py.1 n-e notate-1
ta   ot.-.c.      i  tst--ota   tt-a00ci -             tt if  _t  ciL                                                                                       N. sod .tDieL-
laoOoace Iletioce_.f 
Poa(ootor  httto     70ldLa  loco   7nie   0    retteiayyt-0:001 a-hoit  se  Llao



- 21 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
MALAhI
ECONCMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, constant prices)
U$ Mln.   %                         1973-1980          1981
GNP at Market Prices           1,257.5   100.0                        5.1             -1.3
Gross Domestic Investment        255.3    20.3                        8.1            -25.9
Gross National Saving             89.0     7.1                       -2.8            -10.8
Current Account Balance         -166.3   -13.2                         -                -
Exports of Goods, NFS            341.7    27.2                        6.0             -2.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            433.6    34.5                        0.5           -16.2
CITPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added             labor Force             V.A. Per 'Worker
U$1M1n.        %         Thousand     %               U$    % of Ave.
Agriculture                      477.1      39.5        2,798.7     93.3            170.5     42.2
Industry                         221.9      18.4           85.8      2.9         2,586.3    642.7
Services                         508.4      42.1          116.1      3.9         4,378.9  1,088.2
Total                       1,207.4     100.0       3,000.6    100.0             402.4    100.0
GOVERENT FINANCE                                                     Central Goverrment
( KMn.)                % of GDP
1980/81     1980/81   1977/78-1979/80
Current Receipts                                                199.2        16.8          17.0
Current Expenditure                                             183.7         15.5         14.8
Current Surplus                                                  15.5         1.3           2.2
Capital Expenditures                                            174.9         14.7         12.0
External Assistance (net)                                        83.3         7.0           9.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                                     1977       1978        1979       1980       1981
(Million K outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Itney                                     122.7      133.2       144.7      177.9     218.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                               44.2       61.9        96.4      128.3     206.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              87.7      122.3       170.8      182.4      191.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money a % of GDP                           17.0       16.9        16.6       17.9       18.4
implicit GDP deflator (1978=100) Annual Percentage
changes in:                                      99.9       100.0      102.7       114.9     137.6
Implicit GDP deflator                                      12.8        0.1         2.7       11.9      19.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                6.1        7.9        11.0       12.9      17.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                              12.2       15.6        19.6       18.3       16.1
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this Annex are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
May 1982



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPIrAL FIOWS
RAIANCE OF P                                                               1SER ANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-1981)
1977   1978   1979   1980  1981                               U$ MLn.    %
(Mllions U$)
Tobacco                123.0    45.5
Exports of Goods, NFS           241.8  220.1  256.7  341.3  341.8       Tea                      36.4    13.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           279.1  387.5  465.5  508.2  433.6       Groundnuts               14.2     5.3
Resource Balance                -37.3 -167.4 -208.8 -166.9 -91.8         Sugar                  46.1    17.1
All Other Comodities    50.6    18.7
Total                  270.3   100.0
Factor Payments (net)           -25.5   -4.7  -42.6  -52.1 -70.4
Net Current Transfers Private     5.5    5.9   -0.4   -6.4  -4.1          EMNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Balance on Current Account      -57.3 -166.2 -251.8 -225.3 -166.3
U$ Mln.)
Direct Private Foreign                                                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   687.0
Investment                      5.5    9.7   13.5    5.9    6.0a   Non-guaranteed Private Debt
Net ET Borrowing                                                           Total outstanding & Disbursed  687.0
Disbursements                  99.7  135.7  125.4  159.9  124.1
Amortizations                  15.3   18.7   19.3   32.9   36.2    NEr DEBT SERVICE RATIOc  for 1981
Subtotal                       84.4  117.0  106.1  127.0   87.9
Capital Grants                   19.9   38.9   46.6   50.0   49.9                                          %
Other Capital (net)              -6.9  -29.4   44.3   35.8  -17.4
Other Items n.i.e.               12.3   11.9   29.9   15.8   19.2    Public Debt, Ir1. guaranteed         26.1
Increase in Reserves (+)        +57.9  -18.1  -11.4   +9.2  -20.7       Non-guaranteed Private Debt       ..
Total Ouitstandinrg & Disbuirsed  26. 1
Gross Reserves (end year)        84.4   72.2   63.2   72.8   55.8b
IBRD/DA Lending, Dec. 31, 1981
Petroleun Imports                23.7   30.1   46.8   55.0   47.2a   (MLn U$)
Petroleun Re-exports               -       -      -      -        -                              IBRD     IDA
(Inc. Third
RATE OF E(CHANG                                                                                Window)
US - K                           .9029  .8437  .8169  .8121  .8953   Outstanding & Disbursed  52.3   145.1
K 1 - U9                        1.1075  1.1853  1.2241  1.2314  1.1169   Undisbursed            22.9   109.1
Outstanding including
Undisbursed           75.2   254.2
Estimate.
Through September 1981.
Ratio of debt service payments to exports of goods and non-factor services excluding repayments to IMF.
. Not available
-Nt applicable                                                             Fay 1982



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                             Third                    Un-
Credit No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose                    Window    IDA         disbursed
t
Four loans and 15 credits have been fully disbursed                  71.20   120.93
711-MAI       1978    Malawi           Water Supply                            7.00        2.54
823-MAI       1978                      Shire Valley
Consolidation                        10.70         .57
1610-MAI       1978    INDEBANK          First DFC                    3.00                  1.43
857-MAI       1979    Republic of       National Rural
Malawi            Development
Program I                            22.00        8.75
910-MAI       1979                      Education III                         14.50        7.09
992-MAI       1980                      National Rural
Development
Program II                           13.80        9.70
1099-MAI       1981                     Highway IV                             33.00a      18.46
1123-MAI       1981                     Education IV                           41.00b      32.30
2027--MAI      1981                      Technical Assistance         1.00                   .91
1183-MAI       1981                     National Rural Development
Program III                          7.30c      6.95
1272-MAI       1982                     Lilongwe Water Supply
Eng. Project                         4.00d      4.00
TOTAL                                                 75.20   275.07
of which has been repaid                                .39      3.20       92.70
amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                        74.81   271.87
TOTAL undisbursed                                      2.34    90.36       92.70
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
c Credit of SDR 6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR 3.6 million (not yet effective)



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
March 31, 1982
Total
Investment                                    Type of                             Held    Undis-
Number         Year      Obligor              Business   Equity   Loan  Total  by IFC  bursed
----------------(US$ Million)-------
326-MAI       1976     David Whitehead       Textiles       -       6.0   6.0    2.8        -
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI       1977     Dwangwa               Sugar          -       9.9   9.9    8.8        -
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI       1978      Investment and       Development  0.6        -    0.6    0.6        -
Development          Finance
Bank of Malawi       Company
502-MAI       1979     Malawi                Tourism        -       2.0   2.0    2.0       1.6
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI       1980     Ethanol Company       Manufactur-
Limited of           ing Alcohol
Malawi               from
Molasses      0.2    1.7    1.9    1.9        -
TOTALS      0.8  19.6   20.4   16.1       1.6



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
October 31, 1982
Credit No. 711-MAI            Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 18, 1978; Closing Date:  September 30, 1983
Initial delays in project implementation occurred due to revision of
the project's scope, but implementation is now proceeding reasonably well.
(     Detailed engineering is complete and awards have been made on all the  contracts
being financed by the Association.   However, due to the initial delay, the Bank
has agreed to a postponement of the closing date to September 30, 1983.   BWB has
also, with the help of the Bank, reassessed its financial position and agreed on a
revision of the covenanted rates of return because of slower-than-anticipated
growth in water demand, a reduced need for debt service, and higher rates of
revaluation of fixed assets than used at appraisal.
Credit No. 758-MAI            Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 29,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing the 52-mile Kasungu-Jenda road to
two-lane bituminous surfaced standard; strengthening three short sections of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (parallel financed by the OPEC Special Fund); and providing
consultant services for the supervision of the road, construction, and for the
feasibility and engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Construction works
on the Kasungu-Jenda road, strengthening works on the Zomba-Lilongwe, and the
studies for the Jenda-Mzuzu road are complete. Final disbursements is underway
and the Credit will be closed shortly.
Credit No. 823-MAI            Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program and includes extension services to support increased cotton
and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforestation programs,
production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health and potable water
supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development study and some rural
roads. It has provided social and infrastructure services to about 70,000
families. The Valley attained self-sufficiency in food crops for the first time
in its history in 1977/78. Crop production targets, with the exception of guar
beans, have not yet been reached, and have been affected in the current season by
the late onset of the rains. Ongoing project works have been recently completed.
An adequate extension ratio has been reached.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1610-MAI             Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The project provides foreign exchange for financing medium- to
large-scale projects in industry and agro-industry and agriculture and is helping
INDEBANK consolidate its policies and strengthen its capabilities in project
promotion, appraisal, implementation and follow-up. The line of credit is now
fully committed; and as of April 20, 1982, disbursements amounted to US$1.23
million and are expected to be completed shortly.
Credit No. 857-MAI            National Rural Development Program,
Phase I; US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 5, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is assisting the Government in implementing the first phase
of Malawi's National Rural Development Program. Over a five-year period it aims
to increase output of maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco and rice, and expand
milk and meat production. The project has also improved basic services (water
supplies, roads and health facilities). It is strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's Central Service and four existing Management Units and has
established eight new development project areas. It is also completing the
consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program. The project is
cofinanced by CIDA, DEG, EDF, and ODA. It is proceeding satisfactorily except for
staffing and recurrent financing problems which have been addressed by the
First Structural Adjustment Loan. The entire NRDP program was jointly reviewed by
IDA and Government in FY1982 and recommended changes are being introduced to
improve its cost-effectiveness.
Credit No. 910-MAI            Third Education Project; US$14.5 Million Credit of
EEC Credit No. 12-MAI         June 19, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  September 4,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding
primary and secondary education and management of education. Its major components
include self-help constructing of primary schools, improving and expanding primary
and secondary teacher training schools, providing primary school textbooks;
expanding technical education; establishing an Institute of Education; assisting
school inspectorates; and providing for educational studies. An EEC Special
Action Credit of US$7.5 million was made available to the project. Implementation
is proceeding well and on time, although some delays have been experienced in the
components for technical education and primary school construction. The Institute
of Education has begun to function. A large number of textbooks have been
delivered to schools. Vehicles have been delivered to school inspectorates. A
specialist has initiated the educational studies.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 992-MAI            National Rural Development Program,
Phase II (Wood Energy); US$13.8 Million Credit of
April 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness June 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in its long-term energy
development program aimed at increasing forest resources.  It has established a
national network of about 80 nurseries to produce seedlings for sale to
smallholders, who are being encouraged to establish their own woodlots; fuelwood
and pole plantations to help meet increasing demands from the commercial and
industrial sectors, as well as from urban dwellers; and an Energy unit in the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources. With the exception of seedling sales
to farmers, which is going more slowly than expected, the project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1099-MAI           Fourth Highway Project; US$33.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 25.9 million) Credit of February 20, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: July 16, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in developing the economic
potential of the northern region by constructing and improving the only remaining
sections of the principal north-south road. In addition, the project will promote
the maintenance of the main, secondary and district road networks and provide
consultant services and training. The Credit was declared effective on July 16,
1981. Tbhe construction of the major paved road sections plus improvements of the
existing road between Luwawa Turnoff and Mbowe to a low gravel standard is
progressing satisfactorily and implementation of other components is underway and
the DRIMP study is about to be completed.
Credit No, 1123-MAI           Fourth Education Project; US$41.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 32.2 million) Credit of March 26, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: October 2, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding secondary
education and the training of secondary school teachers. Five new secondary
schools are being constructed and equipped, and six existing secondary schools
expanded., Additional boarding and teaching facilities of Chancellor College are
being built and equipped. In addition, the project is assisting the Government in
the preparation of a national education plan to provide the basis for future
development of the education system. The study is underway and expected to be
finished in September 1983. Satisfactory progress is being made in constructing
the secondary schools and at Chancellor College.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 2027-MAI             Technical Assistance Project; US$1.0 Million
Equivalent Loan of June 25, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: September 30, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project, which complements the Structural Adjustment Loan, is
helping finance consultant services for studies of the livestock, meat and dairy
industries. The Malawi Development Corporation's financial position and export
marketing capabilities is also being examined and strengthened. Other studies
are being carried out as needed to support the structural adjustment program.
After initial delays, the MDC and livestock studies are nearly complete and the
results will be available for Bank review and comment in December, In addition,
the Government has carried out a study of the Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation to address the major organizational, financial and
managerial constraints hindering its performance. It has also employed a firm of
consultants to develop a restructuring package for the major private enterprise.
Results of that study are being reviewed by Goverment and a plan of action being
developed.
Credit No. 1183               National Rural Development Program (N-RDP) Phase III
Project; US$7.3 Million Credit (SDR 6.5 million) of
October 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 28,1982;
closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project constitutes a third phase of the Karonga-Chitipa Rural
Development Project as part of the activities of the National Rural Development
Program. As such it will benefit from the experience and lessons of previous
years. The project will, over a four-year period (1981/82-1984/85), strengthen
project management capabilities, continue to support the development of the
agricultural production potential of the Karonga and Chitipa districts and
strengthen agricultural extension, training, research and credit and marketing
facilities. It also contains provision for improving water supply and for
improved management and evaluation of project activities. The project has
experienced initial start-up difficulties with regard to management and input
supplies (fertilizer). To improve the situation, Government has recently
appointed a new management team and is addressing fully the fertilizer requirement
for the FY83/84 and subsequent crop seasons.
Credit No. 1272               Lilongwe Water Supply and Engineering Credit;
US$4.0 million Credit (SDR 3.6 million) of
June 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: December 17,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The three-year project is financing master plan studies to determine
the optimum long-term program for water supply and sewerage/sanitation development
in Lilongwe and identify a water supply project that would form the program's
first phase.  The latter project is the subject of the feasibility study, detailed
engineering design and the preparation of contract documents. The project is
preceeding satisfactorily. The Lilongwe Water Board is in the process of
appointing an engineer/manager and a chief accountant. Engineering consultants
are being selected to carry out the master plan, feasibility studies and
engineering designs.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM IV
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA
I.         Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare                   6 months
(b)  Prepared by                             Government
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA             February 1982
(d)  First IDA mission                       February 1982
(e)  Appraisal mission departure             April 1982
(f)  Negotiations                            December 1982/January 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness           90 days after date
of signature
lI.       Special IDA Implmentation Action
None
III.      Special Conditions of the Credit
(a) The Government would maintain the position of NRDP coordinator
within its administration at an administrative level of at least
deputy principal secretary (para. 41);
(b) The Government would not later than September 30, 1984, prepare
and furnish to the Association a redeployment schedule specifying
the number of staff to be transferred to the project and projects
from which they will be transferred; and take all necessary action
to transfer its annual operating costs for the project from its
development account to its revenue account (para. 34);
(c) The Government would not later than June 30, 1983, and thereafter
not later than June 30 in each succeeding year, submit to the
Association for its review and comments a detailed work plan for
the extension and research components of the project covering the
12 month period commencing on the following October 1 (para. 35);



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The Government would make incremental seasonal and medium credit
available to farmers or farmers? clubs in the project areas on the
basis of an evaluation carried out by an extension officer. The
loans would, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, be
on the following terms: (i) for seasonal loans--the interest rate
to the farmer through farmers' clubs to be 10 percent per annum in
case of self-accounting and 15 percent per annum to individual
farmers and a repayment period of less than 12 months; (ii) for
seasonal livestock loans--the interest to the farmer to be 10
percent per annum and the repayment period of less than 12 months;
and (iii) for mediumrterm loans--the interest rate to the farmer
of not less than 10 percent per annum with a repayment period of
up to five years with an appropriate grace period (para. 38);
(e) The Government would continue to fix the levels of smallholder
commodity prices acceptable to the Association on the basis of the
methodology agreed on between the Borrower and Association
(para. 43);
(f) Conditions of disbursement would be that: (i) disbursements on
civil works excluding water supply, would be made after a civil
works program satisfactory to the Association had been prepared
(para. 41), and (ii) disbursements on the water supply civil works
would be made after a proposal for maintenance, satisfactory to
the Association, had been submitted (para. 39).



IBRD 16547
32       ~          *,_OzfTT DAR ES SA IAA                     34d                                                  LA                            AUGUST 1982
,; ro s                                                         ~~~~MA LAWI'
(     NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lNRDP IV]
N 2  tv   irJrongo  \5 LILONGWE NORTH EAST/DEOZA HILLS PROJECT
-10-                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI LONGWE NORTH EAST AND DEOZA HILLS  1
PROJECT AREA (NRDP IV)
/.% \ ,    -e                                                    S BOUNDARIESOFAGRICULTERAL DEVELOPMENTDIVISIONS
- -       P \    ' 4   < t   }   7   7  ADR HEADQUARTERS
)~~KARoPdcdA/CHIT1  ,  ~        Cirlu.nb                            EXSITING MAJOR HEGRICULTURE PROJECT AREAS
)r Ab   I O A   t     Y                 f Chilumbu                              IDA FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
/ /   S2          9             /                    \               , 7$<- '  E .,  OTHER AGENCIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
/              ~~~~~Mlonre  -MAIN ROADS
E - -                                                    |      i      -=-|-DI;-,-,-,  RAIlWAYS
4)                  ~~~~~~HENGA-d<ASTI                        RVR
EDA. D            -F.                    INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES
/  (   )  WI3&OJS Xrwetl  \            4;   PORTS
(                                 N \'   +k khota Bcyt
>RUKMZMIKA  fTU             -
M6B -       A                     A  n             t2D.A SIJU-
Z     A     Mg -B        I   A                  -bo                             /LIKIOMA /
-12                                               J                              /           j NSLAN                                                                12t
~~~~~1 ~~~~~M/ I'~
_U -         >\         R f 'I                 -)  /CHI-MUt, 
,2           J<\@)-1 ~~~Ma/awlJ 
/   yj 1<'   -\  8   M,?O Z A M B I Q U E
)    ~      X )-"             >        Xkh.otckoto
55                                                 ETCH/T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS E.Y
1-v---------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E S. A-f      - -
Thro tap ha s teet prepared by the
World EaoottaI  on-rara for
T dee eor o ,",thr /t sattached (igBlk   
Thhe doho-r,dt,-r -od and he
boodn-eoohowo on th,,tmap
do -ot -A, - an he par of the 
World Hank ad, efnard et.anP                                                                                  /G
,odgntent onrhoeledalttatoo of y_   B*
00v trr,toro or anV endorse eat       K/I                                 I'+                                 A    J        I B
or accoptann-e of oocnaboondar,eo                                                       §                                    <
M  O  Z A M t  I QU                                      /t 
SNOB A  ~ ~ ~ ~                 Tote          A.B.A lit       ~~~h - I
REPJELtC Ktni.PHALOM6E U. H-
RE                                                      O        H O                                                                                16°
/ 3| ZAM                                                           A.   I t 1/   -  
iir Al REPUBICA -,ESH M  A                                   IDA
i-   ~      0    20   40   HO080   100  120   t4O  160 em\  *hStO                                       se3



