Document of
The World Bank ,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4087-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT
(Dedza Hills and Lilongwe Northeast Development Areas)
March 17, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =       Malawi Kwacha (MK)
SDR 1.00              =       MK 0.9487 (pre-devaluation,
26 April 1982)
SDR 1.00              =       MK 0.8249 (15 June 1982)
US$ 1.00              =       MK 1.07
MK 1.00              =       US$ 0.93
WEIGHTS AND MfEASURES
1 hectare             =       2.47 acres
1 kilometer           =       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer    =       0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram            =       2.2 pounds
1 metric ton          =       1000 kg = 2204 pounds
1 liter               =       1.05 US quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -     African Development Bank
ADD     -     Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC  -     Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CIDA    -     Canadian International Development Agency
DA      -     Development Area
DAR     -     Department of Agricultural Research
DHI     -     Dedza Hills
DLVW    -     Department of Lands, Valuation and Water
DRIMP   -     District Roads Improvement and Maintenance Program
DTC     -     Day Training Center
EDF     -     European Development Fund
EPA     -     Extension Planning Area
FHA     -     Farm Home Assistant
FRG     -     Federal Republic of Germany
GOM     -     Government of Malawi
GRAMIL  -     Grain and Milling Company
ISNAR   -     International Service for National Agricultural Research
LADD    -     Lilongwe Agricultural Development Area
LLDP    -     Lilongwe Land Development Project
LNE     -     Lilongwe Northeast
MOA     -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     -     Ministry of Finance
MOWS    -     Ministry of Works and Supplies
MU      -     Management Unit (in each ADD)
NRDP    -     National Rural Development Program
RTC     -     Residential Training Center
RTO     -     Research and Trials Officer
STA     -     Senior Technical Assistant
STO     -     Senior Technical Officer
TA            Technical Assistant
TO      -     Technical Officer
UK            United Kingdom
USAID   -     United States Agency for International Development
Government Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMIENT PROGRAM (NRDP) PHASE IV PROJECT
(Dedza Halls and Lilongwe Northeast Development Areas)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND
A. General ............                                                I1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ...............................,.1
C.  Agricultural Development Strategy .............................  3
D. Government Agricultural Services.                                    5
E. Commercial Services.                                                 7
F.  Bank Group Assistance in Rural Development in Malawi.               8
II.  THE PROJECT AREA                                                         9
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  General Description .......................                        13
B. Detailed Features .15
C. Project Costs ................                                      21
D. Financing .................................                         23
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management .24
B. Implementation Schedule .25
C.  Management and Implementation of Specific Components .25
Extension             ....... 25
Training             .............. 26
Research   ..26
Horticulture    ..27
Land Husbandry...                                                  27
Livestock   ..27
Credit..                                                           27
Marketing    ....... 28
Water Supplies    ..29
D.    Procurement ...................................................  .29
E. Disbursements .30
F. Accounts and Audits .31
G.  Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting .31
H. Policy Issues .32
This report is based on the findings of a appraisal mission comprising Mlessrs. A. Nyberg,
A. Spurling, R. Wallace, Y. Doka and Ms. L. Effron (IDA). The mission visited Malawi in
April/May 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A.  Foodcrops ................ ......   33
B.  Tobacco ..............................                                   34
C.  Horticulture Crops             .....................   36
D.  Livestock .......*s..*........ .....................   36
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Farmers Benefits .....................                                     38
B.  Government Cash Flow and Recurrent Cost Implications .........   40
C.  Economic Analysis ...... ................ ...... so ....                 40
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOM1MENDATIONS    .           ...............  .......   44



- iii -
Annexes, Tables, Charts, Maps
I. Supporting Charts and Tables
Chart 1   - Organization Chart
Chart 2   - Implementation Chart - Dedza Hills
Chart 3   - Implementation Chart - Lilongwe Northeast
Table 1  - Key Indicators - Dedza Hills
Table 2   - Key Indicators - Lilongwe Northeast
Table 3   - Disbursement Schedule
II. Cost Tables
Table  1  - Project Component by Time D.H.
Table  2 - Project Cost Summary D.H.
Table  3  - Project Component by Time LNE
Table  4  - Project Cost Summary LNE
III.  Crop and Farm Budgets
Table  I  - Hectare Budget, Maize D.H.
Table  2  - Hectare Budget, Maize/Beans D.H.
Table  3  - Hectare Budget, Groundnuts D.H.
Table  4  - Hectare Budget, Potatoes D.H.
Table  5  - Hectare Budget, Wheat D.H.
Table  6  - Hectare Budget, Maize LNE
Table  7  - Hectare Budget, Groundnuts LNE
Table  8  - Hectare Budget, Tobacco LNE
Table  9  - Farm Budget, Maize/Pulse D.H.
Table 10  - Farm Budget, Maize/Groundnuts D.H.
Table 11  - Farm Budget, Maize/Potato/Wheat D.H.
Table 12  - Farm Budget, Maize LNE
Table 13  - Farm Budget, Tobacco LNE
Table 14  - Farm Budget, Dairy & Tobacco LNE
IV. Economic Analysis
Table  1 - Farm Input Costs D.H.
Table  2  - Crop Benefits D.H.
Table  3  - Costs for Crop Component D.H.
Table  4  - Benefits from Livestock D.H.
Table  5  - Costs of Livestock/Veterinary D.H.
Table  6  - Farm Input Costs LNE
Table  7  - Crop Benefits LNE
Table  8  - Costs for Crop Component LNE
Table  9  - Benefits from Livestock LNE
Table 10  - Costs of Livestock/Veterinary



- iv -
Maps
IBRD Map 16547 - General Map of NRDP Areas in Malawi
IBRD Map 16548 - Lilongwe Northeast Sub-Project Area
IBRD Map 16549 - Dedza Hills Sub-Project Area
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Project Preparation Report - Lilongwe Northeast
Project Preparation Report - Dedza Hills.



MALAWI
National Rural Development Program (NRDP) Phase IV Project
I. BACKGROUND
A. General
1.01     The proposed Project was prepared by the Planning Division in the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and submitted to the World Bank in February
1982, at which time it was reviewed by a mission from the Regional Mission
in East Africa (RMEA). The preparation mission proposed some alterations
and requested additional data be included in the preparation documents.
These data were incorporated into a set of revised documents and a World
Bank mission comprised of Messrs. A. Nyberg, A. Spurling, Y. Doka, and R.
Wallace and Ms. L. Effron (IDA) appraised the Project in Malawi during
April/May 1982. The Project would be part of the National Rural
Development Program (NRDP) with the overall objectives of raising
smallholder production to meet domestic needs and provide exports; of
assuring smallholder access to inputs and services; of preserving Malawi's
natural resources; and of providing some social service infrastructure.
1.02     Malawi is a land locked country with a total area of approximately
118,900 km2 of which 23,900 km2 is lake surface. It is bordered on the
north and northeast by Tanzania, to the east, south and southwest by
Mozambique, and to the west by Zambia. The land area consists of three
distinct topographic regions: the northern mountainous region, the central
plateau and the southern lowlands. The 1977 census indicated the
population of Malawi was 5.6 million with an annual growth rate of 2.9%; it
also revealed that Malawi has one of the highest population densities in
Africa, 60 inhabitants per km2 and 170 inhabitants per km2 of arable land.
However, the population is unevenly distributed with 24 inhabitants per km2
in the Northern Region, 59 per km2 in the Central Region and 88 per km2 in
the Southern Region.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.03     Agriculture is the most important sector of the Malawi economy,
engaging about 85% of the employed population. The sector accounted for
45% of wage employment, 40% of GDP and 89% of export earnings in 1981.
Tobacco provides the largest share of agricultural export earnings (48% in
1981), followed by sugar (26%), tea (12%) and groundnuts (4%). The
relative importance of various crops have altered in recent years with
sugar assuming considerable importance after the establishment of a second
sugar estate. Maize has been imported and exported during years of deficit
and surplus, but is not expected to be a component of external trade under
the recently established policy of maize self-sufficience and strategic
reserves. Malawi's soils are relatively fertile and fairly reliable
rainfall permits a variety of food and cash crops to be grown. About 3.3
million hectares, 36% of the total land area, is considered suitable for
arable agriculture. Of this area, some 2.9 million hectares are estimated
to be under cultivation at present. Forest reserves occupy 9% of the total
land area and urban, infrastructure and National Parks areas each account
for 11% of the total. Of the remaining 33% of total land area presently
unused, an estimated 60% contains natural, woody vegetation. Over 80% of
the total land area is held under customary tenure, about 2% under
freehold/leasehold and 16% is public land.



- 2 -
1.04     The average farm size is estimated at 1.7 ha and the average
farming family has five members. At this level of cultivated farm holding,
the 3.3 million ha of arable land could probably sustain a population of
about 9 million. At present population growth rates this would be reached
in the quinquennium 1995-2000, when all the remaining arable land would be
utilized. This also assumes that farm production has first claim to arable
land. Over the past decade, increased food requirements for the expanding
population have been met for the most part through expansion in cultivated
area. This has meant that in many areas land more susceptible to erosion
has been cultivated and that fallow periods have been reduced.
Consequently, land use planning, land conservation and maintenance of soil
fertility through the introduction of improved techniques, inputs and
afforestation has become increasingly important.
Crop Production
1.05     Malawi's agricultural production derives from two subsectors:
smallholder agriculture and estate agriculture. In 1981 the smallholder
subsector accounted for 81% of all agricultural production. In most years
smallholder production meets the country's demand for food staples (maize,
beans, groundnuts, cassava, sweet potatoes and rice), provides agricultural
raw materials for industry (cotton and fire-cured tobacco) and some export
surplus (cotton, tobacco, tea and groundnuts). However, the export surplus
from this subsector comprises only about 20% of all agricultural exports.
Smallholder output is estimated to have been expanding at about 3% p.a. in
real terms (equal to the rate of population growth) in recent years.
Better performance by the smallholder subsector has been constrained by (a)
poor incentives provided by low producer prices to smallholders; (b) the
transfer of some 150,000 persons and 470,000 ha of cultivable land to the
estate subsector; and (c) limitation of smallholder participation in the
production of high-value, high cost agricultural export crops such as
burley tobacco, tea, and guar beans by Government regulation. On the other
hand, recent performance of the estate subsector has been spectacular,
averaging a growth of 10% p.a. in real terms since 1973. In 1981, the
estates contributed 19% of the total agricultural production in the
country, but accounted for 80% of all agricultural exports. Estate
production is primarily flue-cured tobacco, burley tobacco, sugar and tea.
Livestock
1.06     The livestock population is estimated at about 877,000 cattle,
800,000 sheep and goats, 200,000 pigs and several million poultry. The
cattle herd is estimated to be growing at 4.4% p.a. and contains
approximately 2,000 grade dairy animals. Grazing areas are being steadily
reduced by the expansion of crop enterprises but there is minimal challenge
from tsetse fly infestation on the grazable land. Most cattle are found in
the less densely populated central and northern regions, although some are
in the Shire Valley. They are typically raised by traditional methods and
they are considered by many farmers more as a source of wealth than as
commodities for sale. However, overstocking is becoming appreciable in
some areas and will probably worsen unless the current offtake rate of 10%
is substantially improved in selected problem areas. Offtake rates have
improved in the Central and Southern regions in recent years. Goats are an
important source of meat in Malawi as are pigs and poultry which are found



in many households. There are no official marketing systems for smallstock
and most of the organized pig and poultry production is, however, supplied
to the urban markets from large commercial producers. Malawi still imports
much of its dairy requirements, though recent progress in local production
has been impressive. Two dairy projects with external support (from Canada
and Denmark) have contributed to this rapid production increase. Milk
throughput at the commercial dairies doubled between 1975 and 1981, to
approximately 5.8 million liters, which is estimated to fulfill 45% of
current demand.
C. Agricultural Development Strategy
1.07     The Government's aim has been to maintain self-sufficiency in food
staples, expand agricultural exports significantly and improve rural
incomes. Given the limitation on high quality land available for new
cultivation, the increasingly high cost of reclamation on marginal lands or
lands exhausted by continuous cultivation, and the high cost of
introducing/expanding irrigation schemes, agricultural policy is focussed
on sustaining productivity increases. It has attempted to provide a growth
climate for both smallholder and estate production.
1.08     Two approaches have been pursued in attempting to improve
smallholder productivity. One has focussed on the gradual improvement of
extension, land husbandry and farmer training services throughout the
country; these effects have been supported by small, low-cost rural
development projects and by special activities and programs such as
ox-training, dairy improvement, and tea development (usually funded by the
United Kingdom (U.K.) or by the United Nations Development Program). These
activities have been relatively successful but have impacted upon
relatively few farmers. The other approach which the Government introduced
in 1968/69 concentrated on relatively expensive and management-intensive
integrated development programs in several areas. Four reasonably large
geographic areas have been the recipients of continuing projects: Lilongwe
with Lilongwe Land Development Projects I, II and III (Cr. 113 MAI, Cr. 244
MAI and Cr. 550 MAI, respectively) followed by the National Rural
Development Program, Phase I (Cr. 857 MAI); Shire Valley with Shire Valley
Agricultural Development Projects I and II (Cr. 114 MAI and Cr. 363 MAI)
followed by Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project (Cr. 823 MAI);
Karonga with Karonga Rural Development Projects I and II (Cr. 282 MAI and
Ln. 1286 MAI) followed by the National Rural Development Program Phase III
(Cr. 1183 MAI), all funded by the World Bank Group; and Lakeshore Rural
Development Project (LRDP) formerly funded by the Federal Republic of
Germany (FRG) and now assisted by the European Development Fund (EDF). All
of these programs provide infrastructure (roads, markets, water, health
facilities, etc.) land improvement and conservation measures, improved
extension, credit facilities and other services. These four comprehensive
programs - which are concentrated in the more agriculturally productive and
densely populated areas - affect about one million persons, or 20% of
Malawi's population. Several other smaller geographic area projects are in
their first phase of development and include Phalombe, Namwera, Kawinga,
Ntchisi and Dowa West.
1.09     Malawi's experience in carrying out these rural development
projects has so far been generally favorable. A number of completion
reports have been prepared by the World Bank on IDA/IBRD financed projects



- 4 -
that have come to the end of their disbursement periods. The first two
reports on LLDP, Phases I and II, found that infrastructural development
and introduction of Government services had been excellent but that
incremental output had proven difficult to measure and probably did not
reach appraisal targets. The report on Phase III of the LLDP, however,
using a number of assumptions, found a 24% rate of return for the three
phases combined. For Shire Valley Agricultural Development Project, Phase
I was considered a success, where farmers' cotton yields incresed
significantly, appraisal production targets were reached and the Project
was credited with successfully mobilizing people at all levels in an area
considered resistant to change. The rate of return was estimated
at 15%. Phase II was less successful in encouraging production and was
affected by several years of severe drought, although again infrastructural
development and provision of Government services were good. The rate of
return for Phase II was estimated at 6-12%, depending on the assumptions
regarding the introduction of guar beans, in which the Project staff were
instrumental. Finally, the completion report for Karonga Rural Development
Phase I concluded that despite misfortunes of some components of the
Project such as an irrigated rice component washed away by flood, a lake
barge that cracked and a jetty that was under water shortly after
completion, the Project was generally successful in achieving its physical
targets as well as incremental output targets and had an estimated rate of
return, without the irrigated component, of 33%.
The National Rural Development Program
1.10     In the mid-1970s, it was realized that such an intensive level of
investment could not be replicated in the rest of the country within a
reasonable time. A strategy redesign was undertaken resulting in the
formulation of the National Rural Development Program (NRDP) to provide a
more extensive level of services to a large population with a concentration
of resources on the more immediately productive aspects of agricultural
investment. NRDP is designed to increase the level of smallholder
production through the provision of agricultural inputs and farm services
and to increase the efficiency and scope of extension, input supply,
marketing and credit services. Emphasis is also placed on soil
conservation, watershed management, and on afforestation.
1.11     The MOA is responsible for the implementation of the program.  The
central services and management capability of MOA have been strengthened;
instead of three regional agricultural areas with four major projects, the
country has now been divided into eight Agricultural Development Divisions
(ADDs).1/ On average, each ADD is divided into five Development Areas
(DAs), containing an average of about 25,000 farm families.
1.12     The Government envisages a 15 to 18 year development period for
each area divided into four phases. The activities would start with a two
or three year preparatory phase. This would include land and agro-economic
surveys, followed by detailed physical and economic planning; the
establishment of agronomic trials where necessary; construction of
1/ Karonga, Mzuzu Kasungu, Lilongwe, Salima, Liwonde, Blantyre, and Ngabu
(Shire Valley3 - see map.



- 5 -
essential additional staff housing; allocation of new extension staff; and
construction of additional water sources, marketing facilities, rural roads
and health posts. The subsequent extensive phase would be implemented over
a period of about five years and would include investments in
production-related items such as improved extension and training,
marketing, supply of inputs and provision of credit. Research would also
be accented as a few years of research are needed to generate the 'new'
technologies for the next phase. During the following five-year intensive
phase, more attention would be given to increasing research and to the
introduction of new crops and processing technologies; intensification of
cropping programs; opening up of new areas where available for settlement;
land conservation and consolidation; animal husbandry; and the construction
of new roads. Finally, the areas would enter a consolidation phase, which
would involve a continuation of more intensive development, further
improvements to social infrastructure, especially education and health and
may also include the development of rural industries. In practice, there
will not necessarily be a clear dividing line between activities in each
phase.  The initial NRDP project (Cr. 857 MAI) began in 1978 for several
DAs and is being co-financed by IDA, EDF, UK, FRG, Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the African Development Bank (ADB). In
addition the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has
a large program to strengthen the country's agricultural research program
(para. 1.15).
D. Government Agricultural Services
Agricultural Extension
1.13     Crop and animal health extension are important services provided
to farmers by the Government. The past performance of the smallholder
subsector tends to indicate, however, that extension efforts provided only
marginal stimulus to agricultural development. This led MOA to restructure
its extension services by instituting geographical units, called Extension
Planning Areas (EPAs), based on ecological principles consistent with
administrative boundaries. These EPAs are as uniform in terms of physical
resources as possible, and number 180, covering the entire country. They
are, in turn, grouped together for administrative purposes into Development
Areas of which there will be about 40 when NRDP is fully implemented
(para. 1.11). Initially, the extension workers made individual farm visits
but his farmer contacts are evolving to working with groups of farmers,
which utilizes his time more efficiently. The extension worker is
supported by district supervisory staff and specialist staff at the ADD
level. The extension service has expanded substantially in recent years
and now contains a number of young and relatively inexperienced staff;
however, they are well disciplined, well motivated and should mature into
an effective service.
Farming Training
1.14     Training facilities for farmers (both men and women) have become
increasingly available in recent years. Three levels of training are
provided at farm institutes, residential centers and day centers. There
are three farm institutes at Mbelwa (Mzuzu), Chitala (Salima) and Thuchila
(Blantyre), with a total capacity of 260 student places for courses lasting
two or three weeks. There are 22 residential centers conducting courses of
one to two weeks' duration for staff and about 17,000 farmers (male and



female) in a year. All centers have demonstration gardens, plots or
farms. Day centers have the use of a room at an EPA field office. The
number of these centers varies annually as some are upgraded and
transferred to specific projects or as new ones are constructed. The
courses are centered on specific topics of current interest or importance.
Only limited evidence exists on the impact training programs have on farm
operation, production and productivity. Evaluation by questionnaire
indicates that RTC participants have adopted, to some extent, some
practices learned in the course(s). However, this has not been translated
into increased production or productivity.
Agricultural Research
1.15     Agricultural research is carried out by the Department of
Agricultural Research (DAR) of MOA, the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Malawi, the Tea Research Foundation and the Tobacco Research
Authority. The University carries out its own research on behalf of MOA at
Bunda College of Agriculture. Its main contribution to date is in the
field of bean and livestock research. The DAR is a full-time research
department with national responsibilties covering all crops and livestock
as well as seed multiplication and certification. Administratively,
agricultural research is organized on the basis of research stations which,
in turn, have substations and district sites. Scientifically, research is
organized under research projects based on crops or disciplines. The DAR
has conducted some very relevant and effective research, although the
Department has established too many research stations to operate them
effectively within their staffing and financial constraints. However, the
research structure and organization is currently under a joint review by
the MOA and the International Service for National Agricultural Research
(ISNAR). In the past the link between research and extension has been weak
but the incorporation of research activities in NRDP projects has improved
coordination. Coordination is expected to improve further as
responsibilities are delineated and the current review is completed. USAID
has a large program to provide graduate training to about 50 researchers
and to provide technical assistance.
Agricultural Marketing
1.16     The Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) is
a statutory company established to purchase smallholder crops (foodcrops
and non-food crops), to sell food crops and to sell and deliver crop
production inputs (seeds, fertilizers, chemicals, and sometimes farm
implements). ADMARC operates a national network of marketing sheds and
storage facilities for these purposes. In addition, ADMARC invests in
agricultural and agro-industrial enterprises and pays/charges prices as
agreed and authorized by the Price Commission of the Malawi Government.
Until recently, the authorized prices permitted ADMARC to realize profits
on a number of its crops, but recently higher transport costs and improper
crop handling combined with higher costs of borrowing for large investments
have resulted in substantial losses. Nevertheless, it is one of the more
effective crop marketing parastatals in Eastern Africa.



-7-
Credit Services
1.17     No central agricultural credit institution exists in Malawi.
Smallholders have access to seasonal and medium-term agricultural credit
through the MOA's rural development projects, which have their own credit
funds and credit staff, settlement schemes under the MOA (which are small
comprising 100-200 farmers at most), or through the Loan Board under the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (negligible amounts in recent years). Under
NRDP, a study has recently been conducted on agricultural credit in Malawi
recommending the establishment of a national agricultural credit
institution, but a decision has not been made on the institutional form
that should be established.
1.18     Most seasonal credit to smallholders is through self-accounting
groups at 10%.2/ Repayment rates have been high, approximately 98-99%.
Repayment is either at the time of commodity sales to ADMARC or refunded by
the secretary/treasurer of the self-accounting groups. In addition, the
credit staff provides strict supervision; seasonal credit is given only to
groups (even where they may not be self-accounting) and no credit is given
to a group where any member has defaulted. The intense supervision by
credit and extension staff contributes to the high level of credit
recovery - a supervision intensity which probably would not be maintained
under an institutionalized credit system. Medium-term credit is available
at 10% per year, repayable over 3-5 years, and repayment is less
satisfactory, at 60-80%, because there is no systematic method of
collection as there is for seasonal credit. Annual inflation rates for the
past four years have averaged about 11% and are projected to be about 12%
for the near future.
Afforestation
1.19     The Forestry Department in the Ministry of Forestry and Natural
Resources has a nationwide program underway, financed by IDA and called
NRDP II (Wood Energy Project, Cr. 992 MAI), to provide fuelwood, charcoal
and poles to both the urban and rural populations. The program includes
the establishment of District Plantations and Forestry Department
nurseries, the latter for production of seedlings for sale to farmers
(smallholder or estate) who wish to establish woodlots. The Project is in
its early stages but promises to be, if successful, an innovative means of
reafforesting the country and providing an accessible source of energy to
the population.
E. Commercial Services
Banking
1.20     The estate farming sector obtains credit from the two commercial
banks - National Bank and Commercial Bank. Credit is primarily seasonal
financing but medium term investment financing is also provided. The
volume of outstanding credit is about MK92 million, most of which is
seasonal overdrafts; at interest rates of 14-15%. However, poor recovery
2/ Annualized rates are higher, however, because farmers pay loans back
after only 7-9 months.



- 8 -
has caused the banks to establish an Agricultural Technical and Management
Service for protection of their estate investments and to screen and reduce
their volume of new investment financing. The banks also provide extension
to tobacco estates as the Ministry of Agriculture's extension staff
services only the smallholder.
Input Supplies
1.21     Fertilizers for the estate sub-sector are imported under monopoly
rights granted to Optichem and other agro-chemicals are provided by
commercial firms. The National Seed Company of Malawi stocks a wide range
of seed available for any purchaser. However, most direct sales are to
estates and ADMARC, smallholders normally purchase their seed requirements
through ADMARC.
Commodity Marketing
1.22     Estate produce is marketed almost entirely through the private
sector. Grain and Milling Company (GRAMIL) is the major maize purchaser
and the tobacco auctions at Limbe and Lilongwe provide the vehicle for
tobacco sales. Tea and coffee are exported through international trading
companies.
F. Bank Group Assistance in Rural Development in Malawi
1.23     The Bank Group has been involved in financing rural development in
Malawi since 1968 and the proposed NRDP IV would be the eleventh such
project. The total cost of these projects were about MK116.1 million
(US$152.9 million) with a Bank Group contribution of US$105.5 million. The
Bank Group has assisted in three geographical areas as noted above (paras.
1.08-1.09). In addition to the Project Completion Reports and Project
Performance Audit Reports written on a number of these projects, a national
rural development program (NRDP) review has been produced on the overall
structure and content of the rural development approach.
1.24     The NRDP Review concluded that, in general, investment in rural
development was an appropriate and economic means of improving
smallholder production, provided the incentives to produce and input
delivery were adequate. The Review did make a number of recommendations to
improve the effectiveness of these projects, however, which are relevant to
the proposed Project. First, in view of the constrained availability of
financial resources the Review recommended that the complexity of
the rural development projects should be reduced and efforts focussed
mainly on production related agricultural activities: extension, land
husbandry, training, research, animal husbandry, and marketing.
Investments in other sectors - rural roads, rural health, forestry, etc.
should be included wherever practical in ongoing or forthcoming national
investment programs. In this way, proper maintenance and staffing of
non-agricultural activities and infrastructure would be better implemented
and operated than if they were administered under the MOA. Agricultural
staff could focus their attention on production and conservation. However,
in some sectors national priorities have not been identified and the
capacity to develop national plans does not exist. Where this prevails,
the appropriate sectoral component should be included if that sector's
participation is perceived to be a limiting agricultural development



- 9 -
constraint. The proposed NRDP IV project follows these recommendations.
Second, to ensure better coordination of veterinary, research and
agricultural staff within an Agricultural Development Division, some
reorganization both at headquarters and at the field level was
recommended (see para. 4.01).
1.25     Third, to reduce the cost of civil works, which have become an
increased proportion of Project costs, the Review identified housing as an
area of potential investment cost savings by using a consulting architect,
greater use of private contractors and more efficient housing designs.
To reduce the recurrent costs, a less intensive extension staff to farmer
ratio was recommended. The proposed Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza Hills
Project has followed these guidelines (paras. 3.03 and 4.01) and has also
recommended, to ease the incremental burden to Government, that new posts
for this Project be transferred from existing projects elsewhere in the
country, thus reducing the intensity of ongoing projects (para. 4.07). The
financing arranagements proposed for this Project are also designed to
facilitate handover to Government's own accounts from donor-financing by
having the Government cover an increasing portion of recurrent costs during
the five years of the Project (para. 3.28).
1.26     Finally, a number of specific recommendations were made in the
NRDP Review on the activities directly related to agricultural production
to rationalize the use of the resources and to improve their
effectiveness. These included, among others, developing a national
livestock program that would set priorities for disease control and
marketing and reorienting both extension and research towards existing
farming systems and constraints faced by farmers. The NRDP IV Project
incorporates these recommendations by including, for example, financing for
a livestock review aimed at establishing national priorities and by
focussing both extension and research efforts on local problems.
1.27     The Bank Group has supported a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
(Loan 2026 MAI) and a Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2027 MAI), both of
which addressed some rural development issues.  The recurrent budget of the
MOA had been inadequate to maintain the rural development projects even at
their reduced staffing intensity, the SAL prescribed and provided funds for
an immediate increase in the recurrent budget for agriculture and
subsequent MOF budget projections for agricultural development have
incorporated future requirements. A pricing methodology to be used in
establishing the prices of crops produced by smallholders was agreed upon,
under the auspices of the SAL. Similarly, two commodity studies, a tobacco
industry study and a livestock industry study, were proposed and/or
financed under these two loans.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
General
2.01     The proposed project area would cover Dedza Hills (DH) and
Lilongwe Northeast (LNE), two of the five development areas (DA) in the
Lilongwe ADD (Map No. 16547). The other three DAs, Lilongwe, Ntcheu and
Thiwi/Lifidzi currently have ongoing rural development projects, all
financed by IDA. Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza Hills cover areas of 1,581
km2 and 1,847 km2 respectively although a forest reserve in the latter



- 10 -
occupies 622 km2. LNE is divided into 5 EPA centers and 2 EPA sub-centers
and Dedza Hills is divided into 4 EPA centers (Map Nos. 16549, 16548). The
area is bounded, to the extent possible, by natural barriers - the
escarpment and rivers - and to a limited extent by a national frontier and
roads. The major North-South road traverses and bounds the area making
communication with Lilongwe and Blantyre relatively easy. Several regional
and district roads also traverse the area but road transport to many
locations within the project area is difficult, particularly during the
rainy season.
Population
2.02     Population was estimated to total about 288,000 people in the 1977
census, composed of 164,000 in LNE and 124,000 in Dedza Hills. Thus, the
project encompasses about 5% of the population and about 3.6% of the land
area. Population densities are quite variable within the areas, but the
overall averages are about 100 per km2 for each of the two sub-project
areas (excluding the forest reserves). The population growth rate for the
areas are reported to be 2.6% for LNE and 2.2% for Dedza Hills (see Table
1).



- li -
Table 1:  Socio-Economic Data and  Indicators
Lilongwe _/      Dedza b/
National a/     Northeast         Hills
A. Demographic
1.  Total population ('000 1989 est.)                                    5,960              178               124
2.  Population density (pop/km  arable land, 1980 est.)                    180              112               101
3.  Average family size (rural 1977)                                      5.0               5.0              4.6
4.  Annual population growth rate (%, 1969-1978)                          2.9               2.6               2.2
B. Economic
i.  Gross Domestic Product (US$ million, 1981)                           1,271               Na              Na
2.  Growth rate of GDP (%, 1980-1981)                                     0.9                Na              Na
3.  Per Capita -DP (1980)                                                  200               Na              Na
4.  Rural Relative Poverty Income Level (1978 US$)                          52               52               52
5.  Rural Family Cash Income (1977 MK)                                                       24                17
6.  Total Land Area ('000 ha)                                            9,500  c/          158              184
7.  Total Cultivable land ('000 ha)                                      3,300  c/          107              123
8.  Total Land Cultivated ('000 ha)                                      2,900  c/           56               34
9.  Average farm size (cultivated ha)                                     1.7   c/          1.3              1.4
10.  Total livestock herd size ('000 animal units, 1981*)                 1,900               Na              Na
11.  Total number of cattle ('000 head, 1981*)                              877               59               23
12.  Farmers per Agricultural Extension Agent (1981)                      1,040             1200             1900
13.  Classified Roads (kin, 1981)                                        10,772               Na              Na
C. Social
Water
1.  Rural Population with safe water (%, 1981)                                               15               19
Health
1.  Life Expectancy at Birth (years, 1981)                                  41  d/           Na              Na
2.  Crude Birth Rate (per thousand, 1970s)                                  56.0 d/          Na              Na
3.  Crude Death Rate (per thousand, 1970s)                                  27.0 d/          Na              Na
4.  Infant Mortality (per thousand, 1970s)                                 190  d7           Na              Na
5.  Incidence of Malaria (% adult population, 1979)                         26  d/           Na              Na
Education
1.  Primary school enrollment ('000, 1980/81)                             810                Na              Na
2.  Secondary school enrollment ('000, 1980/81)                             18               Na              Na
3.  Adult literacy rate  (%)                                                25               Na              Na
4.  Pupil-teacher  ratio (primary, 1980/81)                                 64               Na              Na
- provisional
a/  Source  (unless otherwise indicated)   Malawi Government, Economic Report 1982.
b/  Source  (unless otherwise indicated)   Preparation Reports, April 1982.
c/ World Bank; Malawi, The Development of the Agricultural Sector, May 8, 1981.
d/ World Bank; Malawi, Health Sector Review, November 17, 1981.



- 12 -
Physical Environment
2.03     The Project area encompass a diverse set of topographic and
climatic conditions. About 70% of the LNE area is part of the Lilongwe
plain, lying about 1,150-1,300 meters above sea level. The Dowa hills in
the northwestern portion of LNE range from 650 to 1600 meters in elevation
and the Dedza hills section in the southeastern portion range from 1300 to
1600 meters. Rainfall is roughly 800-900 mm annually with over 95% of the
rainfall occurring between November and April. Soils in the area are
predominately ferruginous soils of various depths except in the hills of
the southeastern portion which are primarily lithosols.
2.04     Topography in the Dedza Hills sub-project is quite undulating with
steep slopes in much of the area. Most of the area is 1000-1600 meters in
elevation and annual rainfall is about 900-1000 mm. Soils are primarily
stony lithosols with some poor ferralitic and fertile ferruginous soils
occurring. Erosion, both potential and actual, is considerable due to the
steep slopes which have been deforested and cultivated. Much of the area
should be in perennial crops and/or terraced.
2.05     Rivers and streams are numerous in the area with two major rivers,
Linthipe and Lilongwe, and several of their tributaries have an all-year
flow. Several other streams are seasonal and cease flowing during the
latter part of the dry season. However, access to clean potable water is
relatively limited, as only 125 boreholes and 160 protected wells service
about 51,000 people. Thus, less than 20% of the rural population has
access to an improved water supply.
2.06     The nation's major north-south bituminized road traverses LNE and
borders Dedza Hills. In addition to this main road (designated M), the
main road connecting Salima and Lilongwe traverses LNE. About 40 km of
secondary roads (designated S) exist in LNE and about 50 km exist in Dedza
Hills. A network of several hundred km of district roads (designated D)
exist in the project area of which about 310 km will be improved under the
IDA supported DRIMP program. Many of the district roads and most of the
undesignated feeder roads are impassable for motor vehicles immediately
after rains. However, when the DRIMP program is completed (scheduled
completion in 1983), transport will be considerably enhanced and should be
adequate for NRDP IV implementation.
Land Tenure
2.07     Although estates are on leasehold or freehold land, this is
applicable to a minor portion of the project area. Most of the project
area falls under customary or communal land tenure where only cultivation
rights rather than ownership is granted by the village headman. Within
most of the project area matrilineal inheritance of cultivation rights
prevail, however, in some locales in Dedza Hills patrilineal inheritance
rights exist. In Lilongwe DA a pilot land registration program exists but
there are currently no plans to extend it to other areas. Average size of
cultivated holdings (in 1977/78) were 1.3 ha and 1.4 ha for LNE and Dedza
Hills respectively. About 25%-30% of total holdings are cultivated.
Holdings are quite fragmented as farmers, on average, have rights to four
non-contiguous plots.



- 13 -
Economy
2.08     Although agriculture is the principal employment activity in the
area, cash income from agriculture is disproportionately low. In 1977/78
cash income from agricultural sources was 65% and 43% of total cash income
for LNE and Dedza Hills respectively, the balance being derived from
non-farm sources. Livestock contributes about 10% of the agricultural cash
income in LNE and only 4% in Dedza Hills. Cattle ownership is relatively
low in the area and the cattle owners have relatively few animals.
However, over 50% of the farmers own goats.
2.09     Lilongwe Northeast has an arable area of 107,000 hectares or
two-thirds of the total land area. The cropping pattern is dominated by
pure stands of local maize occupying almost two-thirds of the cultivated
land (1981). Improved groundnuts are the next most widely grown crop.
Mixed cropping (intercropping) is not common in the area. Tobacco, which
is grown under quota, occupies less than one percent of the cultivated area
but provides the largest proportion of agricultural cash income. The area
is a surplus production area and in 1980/81 ADMARC purchased the following
quantities of agricultural commodities: maize-8,700 mt (net maize purchases
were 7,400 mt as ADMARC sold 1,300 mt of maize during the year),
groundnuts-1,600 mt, tobacco-430 mt and beans-60 mt. Marketed maize has
increased in recent years but marketings of other commodities have declined
- particularly tobacco which has declined to less than one-half of the
marketed tonnage of the late 1970's.
2.10     Dedza Hills has a relatively small arable area as slopes are
severe and the erosion hazard is high. Cultivated area is approximately
34,000 hectares (1977) with a maize-pulse crop mixture being the
overwhelming production pattern occupying over two-thirds of the area.
Pure stands of maize occupy another 12% of the cultivated land. Other
crops produced are groundnuts, pulses, wheat and root crops (sweet potatoes
and Irish potatoes) and some vegetables. The area basically produces food
crops although the food crops can obviously be sold as cash crops. ADMARC
commodity purchases (1981) in the area included maize-3,700 mt, beans-150
mt and groundnuts-90 mt. Maize purchases, although relatively small, have
increased rapidly due to the introduction of hybrid maize. However Dedza
Hills is still a net deficit maize area. Dedza Hills is one of the poorest
agricultural areas in the country although the potential for improvement
exists through increased productivity of maize, groundnuts, wheat and
horticultural crops.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01     Project Objectives.  The proposed activities would be the first
phase of a five-year rural development project for LNE and Dedza Hills.
These are two of the five project areas in Lilongwe ADD and are the only
areas in the ADD that have not previously been the focus of an NRDP
project. LNE has good agricultural potential and the Project would attempt
to increase yields on the principal crops of maize, groundnuts, and fire
cured tobacco and support adaptive research on these and on new crops. The
Project would also improve veterinary health services and increase milk and
meat production. Living standards would be improved through the provision



- 14 -
of potable water supplies. The agricultural potential of Dedza Hills is
more limited as much of the land is quite steep. However, the Project
would attempt to increase maize yields, re-establish groundnuts as a major
part of the cropping system, promote wheat production as a dry season crop
and support research on horticultural crops. Meat production would be
promoted through improved veterinary services. Potable water supplies
would be provided to improve living standards.
3.02     The Project would consist of the following:
(a) Agricultural Extension would be provided with additional resources
including staff to reduce the farmer:extension worker ratio to
780-800:1 from over 1000:1. Additional transport and other
infrastructure (houses and office space) would also be provided.
Financial support would be provided to enable the extension
service to conduct crop demonstration trials. A women's program
would be included to address both agricultural production and
homecraft activities, primarily in female headed households.
(b) Training facilities would be expanded and additional staff would
be recruited to permit increased numbers of farmers and staff to
be trained.
(c) Research funds would be provided to re-introduce a field trials
program and expand the research staff. One of the incremental
staff would concentrate on horticultural crops.
(d) Horticulture would be supported through the provision of
additional staff and attendant infrastructure. The program will
include a fruit tree distribution activity and will involve trials
at EPA centers and on farm gardens.
(e) Land Husbandry would be supported by recruiting staff to be posted
to EPA centers and employing senior supervisory staff to assist in
farm planning and design. An agro-forestry component would also
be incorporated into the unit.
(f) Livestock and Veterinary Services would be improved through the
renovation of existing and construction of additional dipping
facilities and the provision of improved dipping fluids.
(g) Credit would be made available for the purchase of incremental
inputs for crops, farm implements, dairy cows and facilities and
stall-feeders. Funding for incremental credit assistants would
also be provided.
(h) Marketing Sheds for input supply would be constructed together
with housing and incremental staff would not be required.
(i) Potable Water Supplies would be expanded through the construction
of new water points and the renovation of existing boreholes and
wells.
(j) Separate Management Units for the two sub-projects would be
established at Mkuza (for LNE) and Dedza town (for Dedza Hills).
The units would have appropriate staffing, housing, transport and



- 15 -
office space. A monitoring and evaluation component would form a
component of the management unit.
(k) Lilongwe ADD Headquarters would expand their technical support
staff and their land husbandry technical capacity.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension (Annex II, Tables 1 and 16)
3.03     Adequate technical packages exist to improve yields of the major
crops grown in LNE. Yields of both local and hybrid maize can be increased
substantially through better husbandry (particularly improved plant
densities) and correct fertilization. Tobacco yields can be improved
through the increased use of fertilizer and yields of groundnuts can be
improved through the use of properly dressed improved seed. In Dedza Hills
there is some scope for increasing maize and groundnut yields and there is
some potential for expanding fruit and horticultural crop production, but a
major focus of the Extension Service will be on conservation - in
cooperation with the Land Husbandry staff. The transmission of technology
information is a fundamental function of the extension service which, along
with credit for these technical packages, is the key to increased
productivity. The Project would provide funds to support an additional 16
and 22 extension field assistants in LNE and Dedza Hills respectively, as
well as housing, transport and supervisory and support staff. These
additional field assistants would reduce the farmer-extension worker ratio
to 780-800:1 from the current ratio of 1000-2000:1 (para. 1.25). An
Extension Planning Area (EPA) center, consisting of a small office block,
would be established at each of the five EPAs in LNE and the four EPAs in
Dedza Hills. In addition single offices would be established at the two
EPA sub-centers in LNE. Funds would also be included for agricultural
inputs to conduct farm demonstrations and trials as an extension complement
but planned in cooperation with the research component.
3.04     In both of the sub-project areas significant numbers of households
are headed by females and in all households a high proportion of the
agricultural work is carried out by women. The extension staff would make
an effort to involve women in regular extension activity and two Senior
Farm Home Assistants (SFHA) will supervise the women's programs. A women's
program will be developed at each EPA Center as an adjunct to the extension
service. Farm Home Assistants (FHAs) will provide training and advice to
women in both agricultural production and homecraft activities. The
Project would provide funds for an FHA, with supporting infrastructure, at
each EPA center but the placement of the FHAs would be phased over the
first three years of the project to permit a sufficient intensity of
supervision in order to ensure that the program is as effective as
possible.
Training (Annex II, Tables 2 and 17)
3.05     Most of the needed training facilities exist in the sub-project
areas, although some renovations and improvements will be undertaken and
funds will be provided for farm equipment and materials to be used in
demonstrations and trials at the Residential Training Centers (RTCs).
Additional training and support staff will be provided with supporting
infrastructure (housing, transport, etc.). Day Training Centers (DTCs)



- 16 -
will be established at each of the EPAs together with demonstration plots.
Training component activities will focus on farmer training courses devoted
primarily to general agriculture and crop husbandry topics of broad
interest. In addition, special courses on such topics as dairy husbandry
will be conducted periodically.
3.06     Staff training emphasis would be on extension techniques,
communication and management in addition to the technical courses on crop
production, livestock management, horticulture, land husbandry, crop
storage, etc. General management training would include work planning and
budgeting, monitoring and evaluation and NRDP concepts. Training
activities would be conducted by the Training Center staff and by other
selected staff from the Extension Service and the Research Department. In
addition, funds are provided to employ the services of external consultants
for special subjects, including communication and management.
Research (Annex II, Tables 3 and 18)
3.07     Most foodcrop research is performed at Chitedze Research Station,
which is the central research station. Although located outside the
project area it is representative of much of LNE and some of the Dedza
Hills areas. Limited foodcrop trials work has been conducted at Bembeke
Experiment Station in the Dedza Hills RDP. However, applied field trials
have not been carried out in either of the sub-project areas for several
years. The Project will provide funds to reactivate a comprehensive field
trials program covering the major ecological zones of the Project area and
include a greater variety of crops than was previously encompassed. As
noted above (para. 1.15), the research structure is under review by the MOA
and ISNAR. The composition of the research component in this Project
conforms with the preliminary proposals for reorganization.
3.08     A collaborative extension/research diagnostic survey would be
conducted to ensure that the trials programs are designed to provide
solutions to local farming problems. These will be repeated annually to
evaluate the effectiveness and appropriateness of extension and adaptive
trials programs. Additional research staff, with appropriate support
infrastructure, would be employed consisting of a Senior Technical Officer
(STO) who would supervise the research program in the project and a TO (or
STA) and 2 TAs in each sub-project area who would conduct the research
activities. One of the research staff in Dedza Hills would specialize in
horticultural crops.
Horticulture (Annex II, Table 4)
3.09     A wide range of fruit and vegetable varieties are under test at
Bvumbwe Research Station near Blantyre and the Project will provide funding
to enable this program to be extended to the Dedza Hills RDP. Funds will
be provided for an STA post in horticulture with the support
infrastructure. The horticultural program will involve trials with
different varieties at EPA centers and on farmers' plots, in cooperation
with research and extension staff. The extension component will focus on
improving quality and handling of existing production.



- 17 -
Land Husbandry (Annex II, Tables 5 and 19)
3.10     Much of the land within the project area is steeply sloping and
highly erodible and technically is not suitable for crop cultivation.
However, the high population density will result in much of this land being
planted to annual crops, particularly maize. In addition, if the trend
into a monoculture of maize is not reversed, long-term fertility problems
are probable. Specialist land husbandry staff, with supporting
infrastructure will be included at the EPA centers. To assist in planning
and supervision a Chief Technical Officer and a Senior Technical Officer
will also be funded. Land husbandry staff, in cooperation with research
staff, will work on perennial crop diversification which includes fruit
trees (agro-forestry), forage trees and grasses.
Veterinary Services and Livestock Production (Annex II, Tables 6 and 20)
3.11     Tick-borne diseases are major constraints in livestock production
in the project area. East Coast Fever and Anaplasmosis are the most common
diseases. Previous inadequate budgets have resulted in the deterioration
of existing dip tanks in the area, thus requiring renovation and in several
instances improvements (installing roofs, adding calibration tanks, etc.)
are needed and improved acaricides should replace the arsenicals.
Additional animal health drugs and vaccines would be obtained and made
available to farmers at cost recovery prices. Local animal slaughter,
under hygienic conditions would be facilitated by constructing slaughter
facilities. Veterinary services would encompass the following elements.
(i) Dip tanks. The 18 existing dip tanks in LNE and 9 of the 10
existing tanks in Dedza Hills would be renovated. In the absence
of a national program with priorities for livestock investment
three new dip tanks will be constructed in LNE. Renovation would
include roofing, calibration tanks and drainage so that
organophosphate acaricides could be used. (See map Nos. 16548,
16549 for dip locations.)
(ii) Animal health drugs and vaccines. Livestock drugs, including
drenching materials and vaccines would be financed through a
revolving fund managed by the Veterinary Department and sold with
complete cost recovery by veterinary assistants at dip tanks.
(iii) Seven slaughter facilities would be built at the following
population centers: Chimutu, Nkhomo, Nathenje, Nanjiri and
Kamphata in LNE and Mayani and Linthipe in Dedza Hills. This
would support the Animal Slaughter Act and the design of the
facilities would conform to the Central Veterinary Services
standard which would provide a concrete slaughter area, a
structure for hanging and cutting carcasses and a covered
meat-selling area. Animals would be slaughtered under veterinary
supervision and inspection. Administration and maintenance of the
facilities would be the responsibility of the District Councils,
who would levy a user charge.
(iv) Incremental staffing would be provided for the new dip tanks,
including veterinary assistants, dip attendants and tank
laborers. Housing would also be provided for the veterinary
assistants and dip attendants.



- 18 -
3.12     Animal production would be promoted through the encouragement of
stallfeeding beef animals and smallholder dairy units.  Credit would be
available for financing these activities. The on-going program of
distributing improved poultry breeding stock will be expanded by
constructing additional poultry distribution houses which will be operated
by the Veterinary Service. The specific activities would include:
(i) Approximately 1500 beef stallfeeders in LNE and 750 in Dedza Hills
would be fattened by encouraging farmer-to-farmer animal transfers
without LADD being used as a physical intermediary. LADD would
facilitate transporting the animals at cost, to Cold Storage
Company (CSC) where quality price differentials are paid.
(ii) Smallholder dairy would be promoted in LNE. A total of 175 new
farmers would receive, on credit, 2 dairy animals each during the
project period. The animals would be obtained as they became
available, from the Dairy Multiplication Farms. New farmers would
be selected from existing dairy farming areas currently served
with a milk collection service and A. I. facilities.
(iii) Three poultry distribution houses would be constructed at high
population density locations in each of the project areas. The
LNE locations would be Chimutu, Nkhomo and Nathenje. The Dedza
Hills locations would be at Mayani, Linthipe and Bembeke.
(iv)  Six incremental staff would be funded for LNE, including two
Artificial Insemination (A.I.) staff, and one additional staff in
Dedza Hills. These staff would support both the smallholder
dairies and beef stallfeeder units.
3.13     A Livestock Policy and Program Review would be financed under  -e
Project. Developing the Livestock Industry through individual projects ia
the Rural Development Program is difficult as the NRDP focus is crop
agriculture. Therefore, consistent with the NRDP Review recommendations a
study would be conducted focussing on livestock production constraints.
This study would complement and build upon the Livestock Marketing Study
currently underway which is focusing on marketing, pricing, demand and
supply relationships. It would then form the basis for developing a
National Livestock Program. With the incorporation of the Veterinary
Department into the NRDP organizational structure (as agreed in the NRDP
Review) a National Livestock Program could be implemented in parallel with
the NRDP.
Credit (Annex II, Tables 7, 8, 21 and 22)
3.14     Credit supervisory staff would be provided for the two sub-project
areas and incremental credit, both seasonal and medium term, would be
provided. Seasonal credit would be available for crop production inputs to
farmers who adopted technical packages and improved husbandry and to
farmers who engaged in stallfeeder beef fattening. Medium term credit
would be available to new dairy farmers (in LNE) for animal and utensil
purchase and to farmers for the purchase of farm implements.



- 19 -
3.15     In LNE it is expected that the number of farm families adopting
improved maize packages will increase from the current 20% to 28% by the
end of the project.  It is assumed that the incremental rate of adoption
will diminish over the 5 year project period and that approximately 5,450
farmers will adopt improved maize packages during the project. New
adopters of improved groundnut and tobacco packages are assumed to total
3,750 and 1,000 farmers, respectively. In Dedza Hills the number of farm
families adopting improved practices are assumed to be 5,000 for maize, 550
for groundnuts, and 250 for wheat and potatoes3/. A total amount of MK1.1
million would be required during the project to provide seasonal crop
credit. Crop budgets for various types and sizes of farms are contained in
Annex III, Tables 9-14, illustrating potential profitability of the
technological packages. Stallfeeder steers have relatively low gross
margins but require only small labor inputs and, therefore, constitute a
relatively attractive farm enterprise. It is assumed that 100 and 50
incremental animals per year would be stalled in LNE and Dedza Hills
respectively. The incremental credit requirements for stallfeeder
operations is estimated to be MK151,600during the project. A stallfeeder
steer budget is illustrated in Annex III, Table 23. Credit for crop
production inputs would be available only to farmers belonging to farmers'
clubs or groups at 10% (higher on an annualized rate). Individual farmer
credit would be available for stallfeeding at a 10% annual rate.
3.16     Medium term loans, repayable over five years would be available
for the purchase of dairy animals. Dairy animals will be provided in pairs
and it is assumed that 35 farmers will obtain animals each year. Credit
funds totalling MK64,300 will be available for dairy units, all in LNE. A
dairy unit budget is illustrated in Annex III, Table 24. Credit for the
purchase of farm implements such as ploughs and ox-carts has not been
widely used in the past, but based upon recent experience elsewhere in LADD
MK65,800 will be available for this purpose. All medium term credit will
be at 10% annual rate.
3.17     To administer the credit a credit supervisor with office space,
housing, equipment and a motorcycle would be posted at each of the
sub-project headquarters. A credit assistant with a bicycle would be
posted to each EPA center.
Markets (Annex II, Tables 9 and 23)
3.18     Permanent input stores of 350 m.t. capacity each would be
constructed at four locations where either ADMARC currently operates a
seasonal market or where an EPA center would be located and where the
expected incremental input requirements would merit a permanent facility.
The stores could also be used for temporary commodity storage. The stores
will be located at Chimbalanga and Mpenu in LNE and Bembeke and Kanyama in
Dedza Hills. (See map Nos. 16548, 16549). In addition to the storage
facility, appropriate housing and equipment would also be provided under
the project (para. 4.20).
3/ Farmer numbers are based on a farmer adopting a full credit package,
however, if two (or more) farmers wish to share a package they may do
so.



- 20 -
Water Supplies (Annex II, Tables 10 and 24)
3.19     In the absence of a national water plan, funds would be provided
for a potable water component. The Department of Lands, Valuation and
Water (DLVW) would, in cooperation with project staff, determine the
priority areas for providing water points. The DLVW would make site
determination of whether to provide a borehole or a dug well, depending
upon the hydrogeologic conditions. An implementation plan would be jointly
agreed upon between DLVW, the sub-project management and local authorities
which would include the construction program, training of village
attendants and proposals for maintenance cost recovery. Approximately
one-half of the water points deemed necessary would be provided under the
Project.4/ Based upon standard costings, funds would be provided to
construct 880 water points in LNE and 600 in Dedza Hills. In addition, the
project would rehabilitate the boreholes and shallow wells already in
place. It is assumed there are 87 boreholes and 160 shallow wells in the
area.
3.20     Maintenance stores for spare parts, etc would be constructed and
drilling equipment would be provided. The equipment would consist of: a
drilling rig, tractor with trailer and a land rover. With provision of the
drilling/construction equipment, the cost of constructing water points
excludes capital depreciation. A proposal for maintenance and cost
recovery would be submitted as a condition of component disbursement
(para. 7.08).
3.21     Water point construction would be phased with construction in LNE
during project years 2 and 3 and construction in Dedza Hills during project
years 4 and 5. Sub-project management will be responsible for coordinating
the activities of this component. Other commitments prevent DLVW from
initiating construction at the commencement of the project.
Project Administration (Annex II, Tables 11,12,13,25 and 26)
3.22     A Monitoring and Evaluation structure will be established similar
to those found in other project areas. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(MEU) would be responsible to project management but would be coordinated
by the LADD Evaluation Officer and the Central Evaluation Unit in the
Ministry of Agriculture to ensure standard and consistent sets of data are
collected.  Three teams of enumerators-would be established (two teams in
LNE and one in Dedza Hills). Each team would consist of a supervisor and 5
enumerators. Appropriate transport and equipment would also be provided.
Preliminary data analyses would be undertaken at the sub-project
headquarters, although most of the analytical work would be undertaken at
LADD headquarters. Eventually much of the data collection role of the MEU
and many of the staff are expected to be absorbed by the National
Statistical Office (NSO) as part of its nationwide statistical data
collection system, although no timetable currently exists for this
transition.
4/ A water point is defined as a facility with a daily discharge of
approximately 3,375 liters. A dug well is considered a single water
point, a borehole is considered two water points and they will service
125 and 250 people respectively.



- 21 -
3.23     Project Administration.  This Project will support NRDP activities
in two Development Areas (DA), in NRDP nomenclature is also termed project
areas, and which are managed by project officers. In this report the DAs
are identified as sub-project areas as each constitutes approximately one
half of the Project. However, to maintain consistency with NRDP
nomenclature the top managers of the sub-projects will be identified as
project officers, not sub-project officers. The Project activities will be
routinely managed by a team of technical supervisors and administrative
support staff. Each management team would consist of a project officer, an
assistant project officer and technical officers for the components
included in the sub-project. The two sub-project offices will be located
at Mkuza (LNE) and Dedza town (Dedza Hills). Headquarters facilities in
both locations have been partially constructed under pre-investment
funding. The balance of the office space, transport, housing and staff
will be provided under the project.
3.24     Lilongwe ADD Headquarters would provide project supervision on a
general basis. Technical support, financial control, monitoring and
evaluation assistance and policy direction would be provided by LADD. With
the increased activity in LADD, four incremental management staff would be
provided to the LADD management unit. These staff include a Planning and
Evaluation Officer, a Chief Technical Officer in Horticulture and a Chief
Executive Officer for the Credit Accounts. A chief technical officer in
Land Husbandry would be employed as headquarters staff but would be located
in Dedza to supervise work in both Dedza Hills and Ntcheu. Also included
in the LADD headquarters component are technical assistance funds for the
Livestock Sector Review and external training staff.
C. Project Costs
3.25     Total project costs during the five-year life of the project are
estimated to total MK13.4 million (US$12.5 million) of which foreign
exchange costs would account for MK6.8 million (US$6.4 million), or 51% of
the total. The phasing of detailed costs for the respective areas, by
Project component are detailed in Annex 2, Tables 1 to 28 and are
summarized in the following table.



- 22 -
MALAWI
National Rural Development Program IV
Project Costs
'MK I '000)                  (USs '000)             % Of
-------------------------- -------------------------- Foreisn  Z of Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange Base Costs
Lilongwe Northeast
EXTENSION                                   596,65   559.68 1,156,33   555.99   521.55 1h077.54          48.4        22.6
TRAININf                                    125,20   177.30   302.50   116.67   165.22   281.89          58.6         5.9
RESEARCH                                     74.57   110.74   185.31    69.49   103.19   172.68          59.8         3.6
LAND HUSBANDARY                             124.00   134.51   258.51   115.55   125.34   240.89          52.0         5.1
LIVESTOCK AND VETERiNARY SERVICES           234.46   308.56   543.01   218.48   287.53   506,02          56.8         [0.6
CREDIT SUPERVISION                           56.42    39.40    95.82    52.57    36.72    89.29          41.1         1.9
CREDIT FUNDS                                210,12   279.63   489.75   195.81   260.58   456.38          57,1         9,6
MARKETING                                    79,50   103.33   182.83    74.08    96.29   170.37          56t5         3,6
WATER SUPPLIES                              519,91   546.02 1,065.93   484.48   508.82   9?3.30          51,2        20.9
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                    86.19    40.85   127i04    80.32    38.06   118,38          32.2         2.5
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                        294.34   405.54   699.88   274.28   377.91   652.19          57.9        13,7
Total BASELINE COSTS                          20401.36 21705.55 5F106.91 29237.73 2f521.20 40758.94          53.0       100.0
Physical Contingencies                       127.16   162.09   289.26   118.50   151.05   269,55          56.0         5.7
Price Contingencies                          806.20   471,08 1,277.28   751.27   438.98 1190.25          36.9        25.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                           39334.73 3f338.72 6!673.45 3f107,50 3,11123 6Y218.74           50.0       1:30.7
======== =:====== ======== =L====== ======== ======== ======== ====== ===
Dedza Hills
EXTENSION SERUICEP.                  6.10   445.22 17061,32   574.13   414.89   989,03          41.9        22.1
TRAINING                           112O,5      75.53   288.43   105.20   163.58   268,78        60.9         6.0
RESEARCH                           100.83   113,.66   214.49    93,96   105,92   199,88         53.0          4 5
HORTICULTURE                        30.45    2-6.96    57i42    28.38    25.13    53.51         47.0          1.2
LAND HUSBANDRY                     133.58   134,01   267,59   124.48   124,88   249.36          50.1         5.6
LIVESTOCK AND iEhNVETERINAR!Y      45,94  ........... l          Q102.86   148,79    42,81    95.35   138.66  69.1  3-1
CREDIT SUPERVISION                  57.01    3639    93.340    53.13    33.91    87.04          39.0          1.9
CREDIT FLIND                       143.81   323,04   466.84   134.01   301.03   435.04          69.2          9,7
MARKETING                           79.74   103.05   182.79    74.31    96.03   170A34          56.4         3.5
WATER SUPPLIES                     336,72   316.77   653.49   313.78   295.19   608.97           48,5        13.6
MONITORING AND EVALUATION           58.09    31.34    89,43    54.13    29.21    53.34          35.0          1.9
PROJECT HEAiDQUARTERS              340,93   416.93   757.86   317.71   388.53   706.23          55.0         15.8
LADD HEADQUARTERS                   133.99   392i51   526.49   124,86   365.77   490,63         74,6        10.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                 2)190.08 2,618.26 4,808.34 2,040.89 2,439.90 40480,79           54,5       100l 0
Ph2sical Cmntingencies               114.88   139.05   253.94   107.06   129.58   236.64         54.8         5.3
Price Continsencies                 937,11   707.44 1!644,56   873.28   659.25 1532.53          43.0        34.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                  3i242,08 30464,76 6b706.83 37021.22 3,228,74 6,249.96           51,7       139.5
Februtar- 9. 1983  ?20!38



- 23 -
3.26     Project costs have been estimated at mid-1983 prices.  Duties are
levied on vehicle fuels but Government bodies are subsequently reimbursed
by the amount of the duty. Income taxes are levied on the salary
components but are negligible.  Physical contingencies have been included
at 10% on all civil works, vehicles and equipment and are 5% of the base
cost. Price contingencies have been included: (i) on the international
component of civil works, vehicles, equipment and supplies at 8.0% in 1983,
7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6.0% thereafter; (ii) on the local cost
component of vehicles, equipment and supplies and on operating costs at 12%
annually; and (iii) on the local cost component of civil works at 18%
annually, reflecting the continuing inflationary pressure on the
construction industry. Price contingencies total 29% of base costs.
3.27     Project costs provide for a limited amount (3 months) of technical
assistance consultancy to assist in the training activities. These funds
would be used in conjunction with similar funds in other projects whereby a
consultant would assist with training activities in several project areas
during the consultancy.
D. Financing
3.28     Eighty-five percent of the total project costs would be financed
by IDA. The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to GOM and
would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the Project, except those
associated with the marketing component, (US$6.2 million) and US$4.4
million or 72% of local costs. The financing of project costs would be as
follows:
Proposed Financing Plan
US$ Million        Percent
IDA          10.6              85
GOM           1.9              15
Total        12.5             100
To reduce the budgetary impact of transferring large numbers of staff from
development to revenue account at the termination of the project,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that an orderly transfer of
staff would be made and all staff would be on revenue account by the end of
the project period. A list of staff positions to be transferred would be
submitted to IDA by September 30, 1983. Consequently, much of Government's
contribution to the project would be through the revenue account.
3.29     Part of the Government's contribution would be the construction of
input sheds, staff housing and market complexes to be operated by ADMARC at
an estimated cost of MK365,000 (US$340,000). The MOF and ADMARC have
agreed to a financing and lease-back arrangement. Government's
contribution would also include all staff salaries and wages (excluding
consultants).



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     The organizational structure of this Project will be similar to
that of previous NRDP projects although slight modifications will be made
to conform to the NRDP Review recommendations. An organogram indicating
the organizational links to parent ministries and overall NRDP management
are illustrated in Annex 1, Chart 1. The MOA has overall responsibility
for NRDP projects. Under the reorganization, NRDP would be under the
direction of a Deputy Secretary (DS) as the NRDP coordinator and the
Program Managers of the ADDs would report directly to him. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that this position would be maintained at a DS
level (para. 7.01(f)). The Chief Agricultural Development Officer (CADO)
would retain the technical lines of responsibility in the agricultural
extension effort. Similarly, the Chief Veterinary Officer (CVO) and Chief
Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) would maintain technical links with
their respective staff but administrative linkage would be the DPS. The
Project would also have an administrative linkage to other ministries
through the NRDP coordinator but the working relationships would be between
the ADD Program Manager and other technical ministries. Thus, the Water
Supply Component would be implemented by DLVW but coordinated with the
Program Manager. Similarly, the complementary roads development which is
funded independently, would be implemented by MOWS but coordinated with the
Program Manager. Considerable civil works will be required in the Project
and while coordination with MOWS is necessary it is recommended that LADD
management retain the services of a consulting architect, to coordinate and
manage the construction of houses. The architect would develop site plans,
issue and evaluate tenders, develop contracts, supervise construction and
generally exercise cost control in the construction of houses through
design alteration, alternative materials, etc. (para. 1.25). As a cost
control measure civil works procurement would generally be through local
bidding rather than the more common use of force account (para. 4.22(c)).
The Ministry of Works would, of course, be eligible for bidding. A
condition of disbursement against civil works would be the preparation by
MOA-LADD of a civil works program, acceptable to IDA, which specifies
designs and construction methods (paras. 4.23 and 7.07).
4.02     The NRDP IV project includes two sub-project areas, or two
Development areas, and as such the MOA has appointed a Project Officer for
each of these two areas. These project officers would report to the
Program Manager of Lilongwe ADD and would have day-to-day operational
responsibility for the Project. The Program Manager of LADD would have
overall management responsibility and would report to the NRDP
coordinator. The technical officers at the project level would have two
lines of responsibility: one to the Project Officer for daily activities
and coordinating work programs, and one to specialist staff in the
technical departments or ministries.
4.03     Project management and staff would actively collaborate with local
groups and farmers clubs. With all of the credit and increasing amounts of
the extension work done with farmers clubs it is imperative that
collaboration be close. Staff will also collaborate with local groups on
infrastructural development such as livestock dips, slaughter slabs and
water points. Local participation in the Project will be encouraged.



- 25 -
B. Implementation Schedule
4.04     Project investments and financing for operating costs would be
provided over a five-year period. It is expected that the procurement of
vehicles and equipment, staff recruitment and most of the civil works
construction (except for water points) would be achieved during the first
year of the project. The implementation rates of the various components
are shown in Annex I, Charts 2 and 3. Details for each component are shown
in the cost tables (Annex II, Tables 1 to 28). Key indicators are
summarized in Annex I, Table 1 and 2.
C. Management and Implementation of Specific Components
Extension
4.05     The extension service, in consultation with other units, would
develop annual work plans outlining objectives, plans for achieving those
objectives and the substantive composition of the extension component.
Integrated planning with the training, research, horticulture, land
husbandry and veterinary services will ensure consistent objectives are
pursued and mutually reenforcing work plans are designed. The Project
Officers located at Dedza Hills and Lilongwe Northeast Headquarters would
have overall responsibility for the coordination and development of the
work plans. To ensure the program is oriented along implementable lines,
participation of District and Village Committees will be sought. The
annual work plans will be submitted to IDA for comment (para. 7.01(c)).
4.06     To improve the efficiency of the extension workers they will work
primarily with farmer groups/clubs composed of 40-50 farmers. The
extension worker would visit each farmer group about once each two weeks.
Part of the extension workers' time would be devoted to the formation of
additional groups/clubs and this would be specified in their individual
work plans. Each extension worker would be trained to look at farming
problems from a holistic farming systems perspective where the complete
farm enterprise would be considered and advice/assistance would be directed
toward the farm enterprise with due recognition of the competing demands on
labor, land, etc.  Interaction and support would be provided by research,
horticulture, land husbandry, livestock and veterinary services staff in
addition to extension support staff. The extension workers would also be
responsible, with assistance from research staff, for setting up
demonstration plots on farmers' fields. A component of the cooperation
with and assistance from Research would be the incorporation of high
analysis fertilizer trials into these demonstration plots.
4.07     The extension workers would be organized by EPA.  Each EPA center
would have a Development Officer and an assistant who would coordinate
staff and farmer training and the general work program. The ratio of
farmers to field assistants would be improved to about 750:1 (see para.
3.03), in the project area. Assurances were obtained that new staff
would, to the extent possible be obtained by transferring in, from other
project areas, staff made redundant by changing the farmer to field
assistant ratio to recommended levels. This would result in the
acquisition of experienced staff and minimize the incremental Governmental
cost by restricting the recruitment of new staff. Assurances will be
sought at negotiation that staff transfers from other projects would be
undertaken to the extent possible (para. 7.01(b)).



- 26 -
Government will specify the numbers of staff to be transferred and the
projects from which they will be obtained.
4.08     The Farm-Home Assistants will complement the work of the general
extension workers by identifying and focusing on the specific farming
problems faced by women.  To facilitate supervision and evaluation of the
FHA program the incremental number of FHA staff will be phased in over the
first three years of the project. Where horticulture is important (Dedza
Hills) the FHAs would be specially trained in horticulture.
Training
4.09     Both farmers and project staff would be the recipient of
training. The training structure for farmers would be through day training
sessions, both at Day Training Center (DTC) demonstration plots and on
farmers' field and with farmers' animals organized by the Training Center
staff. Emphasis would be placed on increasing the effectiveness of farmer
training rather than increasing the number of trainees, although the
numbers trained are expected to increase slightly. Additional DTCs would
be established at the EPA centers where none currently exist. Training
sessions at Residential Training Centers (RTCs) would be limited to
specialized crop or livestock training and would normally be a one-week
course. Such courses would be practical production and problem oriented.
Crop production on the RTC farms would be intensified to improve the
demonstration value of these farms and to supplement the supply of food to
the RTC kitchens. A special effort would be made to involve more women in
the training program.
4.10     Extension staff would receive refresher courses on crop and
livestock husbandry and emphasis would be placed on the understanding and
interpreting of research results and implementing technical
recommendations. Periodic training sessions by subject matter specialists
would be introduced to complement the regular visit schedule and meetings
with research staff. They would receive technical courses on horticulture,
silviculture, land husbandry and crop storage and general courses in
extension methods, communication and management.   Short term consultant
trainers would be engaged where appropriate and available, particularly in
the generalized methodological courses.
Research
4.11     The Project would support and expand food crops (including
horticulture) research at Chitedze and Bembeke Research Stations. The
Research and Trials Officer (RTO) would be ADD based but will exchange some
of his time for other specialized staff time to participate in the adaptive
research work. A comprehensive field trials program covering the major
ecological areas and encompassing a more diversified set of crops would be
initiated. The field trials would consist of simple single question
replicated trials and farming systems research. The horticultural research
program will consist principally of varietal trials sited at EPA centers.
Research station trials using high analysis nitrogenous fertilizers will be
extended into field trials.
4.12     Annual work plans would be developed well in advance of
implementation, (for budgetary purposes), with close liaison with the



- 27 -
Department of Agricultural Research and in cooperation with other Project
staff. The Research and Trials Officer would have overall responsibility
for developing and coordinating the work plans. Detailed research
activities would be discussed and agreed upon by the end of September.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the annual work plans would
be submitted to IDA for comment by June 30 (para. 7.01(c)). After harvest
the RTO would analyze and interpret the trials results, maintaining close
liaison with the LADD Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to facilitate
management feedback. Research staff would also participate in the training
program for extension staff.
Horticulture
4.13     Although considerable quantities of vegetables and fruits are
currently produced in the Dedza Hills area, production could be expanded.
However, the local market for additional production is very limited and is
a production constraint. Therefore, only carefully planned production
programs would be supported. The fruit and vegetable varietal testing at
Bvumbwe would be extended to Dedza Hills, primarily at EPA centers but also
on farmers' gardens. The objective would be to extend the present
marketing season through the use of a wider varietal selection combined
with improved crop production and protection techniques. Demonstration
storage facilities for potatoes and onions would be constructed.
Land Husbandry
4.14     The land husbandry staff posted to the EPA centers would work with
the extension staff in land use planning and conservation. Conservation
emphasis would be on biological, rather than physical, methods such as
establishing perennial crops on steep slopes. Balanced rotations would be
demonstrated, where feasible, including restorative cropping breaks of
legumes and grasses in conjunction with the livestock program.
Livestock
4.15     The livestock and veterinary staff would liaise closely with the
extension staff and farmers to ensure proper adoption of stallfeeder and
dairy credit packages. Farmers would be encouraged to obtain stallfeeders
directly from other farmers, requiring close supervision by the veterinary
staff to verify farmers met the criteria for credit (para. 4.17).
Veterinary supervisory staff would be responsible for visiting dipping
centers, ascertaining acaricide and drug requirements and identifying sites
for livestock dips, poultry distribution houses and slaughter facilities.
Veterinary assistants would be available for meat inspection on slaughter
days at the slaughter facilities.
Credit
4.16     Seasonal crop production credit for seeds and fertilizers would be
available for tobacco, groundnuts, maize and wheat, with the credit
packages being provided for a minimum of one acre (except for tobacco where
the minimum would be 0.5 acre), although farmer sharing of credit packages
is permissible. Credit would be available primarily in a package and
improved seed would not be provided unless the fertilizer component could
also be provided (inapplicable to groundnuts which do not require



- 28 -
fertilizer); however, partial packages involving only the fertilizer
element will be permitted. Credit would be provided only through farmers
clubs, which if self-accounting would be charged 10% interest and if not
self-accounting would be charged 15% interest.  (Since seasonal loans are
repaid in 6-9 months the annualized rate is considerably higher.)
Repayment of the loans would be through the clubs whereby the treasurer
would collect the funds and turn them over to the credit assistant during
periodic visits. The credit packages are indicated in Annex III, Tables 27
and 28.
4.17     Stallfeeder credit would be provided upon approval by the
veterinary staff, whereby the recipient received the animal and the seller
received the financial resources. The project would collect the finished
animals, after 5-6 months, and transport them to the Cold Storage Company
(CSC) at which time the original loan would be recoverd as well as the 10%
interest and other costs incurred. To participate in the program, a farmer
would need access to a minimum of 2 ha of utilizable crop residue and the
ability to provide an animal pen and feed storage. The number of
stallfeeders estimated under the program start at 150 in the first and
subsequent years of the project.
4.18     Dairy loans would be provided "in kind" to eligible farmers in a
package consisting of two pregnant heifers, spraying equipment and
supplies, utensils and pasture establishment materials. The Livestock
Officers would supervise the dairy credit package adoption and the
implementation of the dairy unit. Criteria for participating in the dairy
program include the availability of a minimum of 1.2 ha for improved
pastures and be located on an existing milk collection route. Loan
recovery would be through milk sales to the Capital Dairy which would
withhold 50% of the value of sales until the entire amount due was
collected. The annual interest rate would be 10% and it is estimated that
recovery would require about five years. The profitability of milk
production is low compared with alternative land use. However, it is an
attractive enterprise as it provides a steady source of funds distributed
over the year.
4.19     General farming loans would be provided for the purchase of oxen
and ox-drawn farm equipment. The loan would be provided "in kind" and
would be repaid over five years at a 10% interest rate. The credit section
has established criteria for selecting recipients of this type of credit
and loan repayment would be directly to the credit assistants.
Marketing
4.20     ADMARC is responsible for distributing improved technical
packages, fertilizer and improved seed, to smallholder farmers. Funds for
constructing additional input sheds would be provided but the
responsibility for construction of the input stores and support
infrastructure, staffing and operating the stores would rest with ADMARC.
ADMARC would be responsible for staffing and operating the stores.



- 29 -
Water Supplies
4.21     The Groundwater Section of the Department of Lands, Valuation and
Water (DLVW) would be responsible for implementing this component. A
hydrogeologist would be appointed to the Project and would have supervision
responsibility. Together with Project management, Development Area and
local officials he would develop a plan for siting water pc4nts with due
consideration given to water deficit areas. Determination of the type of
water point, borehole or dug well, as well as their precise location would
be determined by the hydrogeologist supervisor. A scheme for training
village attendants, pump mechanics, village maintenance and repair, and
maintenance cost recovery would be developed and submitted to IDA and would
be a condition of disbursement for this component (para. 7.08).
D. Procurement
4.22     Procurement under the Credit would be in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Such an assurance would be sought at negotiations (para.
7.01(d)). Specifically:
(a) orders for vehicles, spare parts, machinery and equipment
(US$830,000)5/ would be bulked as far as possible, and orders of
US$100,000 and above would be subject to international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures. The bidding documents would specify
that suppliers will maintain or agree to maintain an adequate
after-sales service and inventory of spare parts. Procurement
bulking for ICB, as well as items for local procurement would be
approved by IDA prior to tendering/purchasing;
(b) orders for vehicles, spare parts, machinery and equipment that
cannot be bulked in packages of US$100,000 and above, up to
US$250,000 in aggregate, would be procured in accordance with
existing local procedures which are acceptable to IDA;
(c) civil works construction, including housing, stores, offices,
wells and boreholes, and rehabilitation and construction of
livestock dips (US$4.25 million), would be too small and scattered
to attract international interest. The largest single item of
construction that could be bulked would be construction of housing
at an estimated cost of US$2.27 million, but at sites in the two
districts which are scattered and somewhat difficult to reach.
Procurement would, therefore, be by contracts awarded following
locally advertised bidding (although embassies would be notified
and foreign firms would be entitled to compete); if approved in
advance by IDA, procurement could be by force account of the
Ministry of Works or of MOA.
(d) consultants' services for the livestock review, (US$200,000) would
be procured according to the August 1981 Bank guidelines; the
consultants would be employed with prior IDA approval.
5/ All figures in this paragraph exclude contingencies.



- 30 -
E. Disbursement
4.23     Disbursements of funds from the Credit would be on the following
basis:
(a) 100% of foreign exchange and 90% of local expenditures for
vehicles, spare parts, equipment and other materials excluding
marketing and the items to be financed for rural water supplies
(US$825,000);
(b) 100% of total expenditures on civil works, excluding marketing and
rural water supplies if by force account and 90% if by private
contractors (US$2.92 million);
(c) 100% of total expenditures for incremental credit (US$1.23
million);
(d) 100% of foreign exchange and 90% of local expenditures for
agricultural inputs for research, extension, training, land
husbandry and horticulture activities and veterinary chemicals and
drugs (US$500,000);
(e) 100% of total expenditures for incremental operating costs
excluding operating costs for marketing and rural water supplies
(US$1.6 million);
(f) 100% of total expenditures for consultants' services (US$235,000
million); and
(g) for the rural water supply component:
(i)  100% of total expenditures on civil works (US$2.08 million);
(ii) 100% of foreign exchange and 90% of local expenditures on
equipment, vehicles, spare parts and materials (US$82,000);
and
(iii) 100% of operating costs (US$130,000).
An amount of US$1.0 million would be unallocated.  A condition of
disbursements against category (b) would be that MOA had submitted
a program for civil works acceptable to IDA, specifying the designs and
method of construction (private contract or force account) to be used
(para. 7.07). A condition of disbursement against category (g) would be
submission by DLVW to IDA of a proposal for maintenance and cost recovery
(para. 7.08). Disbursements against categories (a), (b(i)), (f) and
(g(ii)) would be fully documented. Disbursements against the other
categories would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) signed
by the project officer in charge of the area and certified by the program
manager and the financial controller of LADD and signed by the Principal
Accountant of MOA. The documents for expenditures covered by SOEs would be
retained by the borrower and made available for IDA inspection during
normal supervision missions.



- 31 -
F. Accounts and Audits
4.24     All Project funds would be channelled from the Ministry of Finance
to the Ministry of Agriculture and be budgeted and administered by the
Lilongwe ADD, except for the livestock review, which would be administered
by the Planning Division of MOA. Project financial records would be
maintained at LADD headquarters, except for the account for the livestock
review, which would be retained by the Principal Accountant of MOA. Credit
fund operations would have separate accounts, and although all credit funds
from the various projects are to be pooled into one general account, a
separate record would be maintained at LADD headquarters for credit
operations for Dedza Hills and Lilongwe Northeast. In previous projects,
the accounts have been audited by the Auditor General and this arrangement
has been satisfactory to IDA. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations
that all Project accounts, including statements of expenditures and the
account for the credit operations, would be audited by the Auditor General
or by independent auditors whose experience and qualifications are
acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts together with the auditor's
report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months following the
end of the fiscal year (para. 7.01(e)).
G. Project Monitoring, Evaluaton and Reporting
4.25     The Monitoring and Evaluation unit would conduct annual surveys on
farmers' plantings, yields and output. To permit the inclusion of more ad
hoc studies required by Project management the household composition survey
would be conducted biennially. Three survey teams, two in LNE and one in
Dedza Hills, would be established. To the extent possible these staff
would be obtained by re-deploying staff from other project areas which are
overstaffed. Each team would consist of a supervisor and five
enumerators. The supervisors (SCO) would supervise the units' activities
and perform preliminary analyses, would assist project management to
identify data requirements and would ensure proper processing. The
supervisors would liaise closely with technical staff to ensure adequate
information feedback and monitoring and be responsible to the Senior
Evaluation Officer in LADD.
4.26     The Senior Evaluation Officer in LADD headquarters would provide
professional support and direction to the Monitoring and Evaluation Units
and would, on request, assist in designing ad hoc studies. He would also
monitor the use of survey information and ensure the surveys meet project
and program needs and would assist the planning officer use the survey data
in developing annual work plans. The Central Evaluation Unit in the
Planning Division of the MOA has standardized survey forms and computer
programs to analyze and tabulate the annual surveys. This Unit would
coordinate evaluation activities and provide technical support.
4.27     The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be responsible for
compiling Quarterly Reports. Project and LADD management would revise the
reporting procedure and modify the format of Quarterly Reports such that
comprehensive reports would be prepared semi-annually and only brief
reports highlighting major issues important for management decisions would
be prepared for the other two quarters. The semi-annual reports would
record adequate information for the eventually required Completion Report
but comprehensive detail would not be required quarterly. Consistent with



- 32 -
the NRDP Review recommendations the reporting timetable would be as
follows:
1st quarter (A-J):        Brief report highlighting major
problems - staffing, procurement,
infrastructure, etc.
2nd quarter (J-S):        Comprehensive semi-annual report.
3rd quarter (O-D):        Brief report highlighting major
issues - crop and livestock
situation, credit recovery, input
problems, etc.
4th quarter (J-M):        Comprehensive annual report.
This would free some of the Evaluation Officers' time for assisting
management with interpreting surveys and monitoring reports, particularly
farmer adoption of recommended practices.   A Completion Report would be
prepared no later than six months after the credit closing date (para.
7.01(i)).
H, Policy Issues
4.28     The lack of economic incentives has been one of the constraints to
increased production by the smallholder sector. Although commodity prices
are presently adequate to make crop production profitable, in the late
1970's the profitability eroded and labor income from farm activities was
often below the opportunity cost of labor. Further, producer prices have
often been far below an export parity price.  Smallholder Crop prices
established for the 1982/83 season reflected a movement toward parity
pricing and assurances were obtained at negotiation that prices for the
years of the Project would be set at levels acceptable to IDA (para.
7.01(g)).
4.29     The bases for increased production in this Project, as in other
NRDP projects, are improved husbandry and improved technical packages. The
technical packages are highly dependent upon imported fertilizer which must
be applied in a timely fashion to provide the incremental production. As
the quantity of fertilizers required has increased in recent years, the
procurement and delivery mechanism has become strained and less effective
in the timely provision of these inputs. Without these inputs the
anticipated benefits from the Project cannot be achieved.  A joint IFAD/IDA
cofinanced project has been proposed which will address this issue and if
processed as scheduled such a procedure should be in-place for the 1983/84
crop season. Assurances were obtained at negotiation that fertilizer
procurement would have a high priority in the allocation of foreign
exchange (para. 7e01(h)).



- 33 -
V. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
A. Foodcrops
Foodcrop production
5.01     Agriculture in the two project areas is dominated bv smallholder
production, apart from 34 percent of the Dedza Hills area which is forest
reserve. Both areas are characterized by relatively large areas of
technically non-arable land but on which considerable numbers of families
have settled. Maize, groundnuts and sweet potatoes are the major foodcrops
grown in the LNE area, while in Dedza maize and various types of beans
predominate. Farm sizes are generally small in both project areas and all
the arable land is already intensively cultivated and it is improbable that
much more arable land will be brought under cultivation. There is likely,
however, to be some expansion of cultivation onto the marginal and steeply
sloping areas for reasons of population pressure. In Lilongwe NE where
tobacco and groundnut acreage have been considerably reduced to the benefit
of the maize acreage due to relative price changes, it is possible that
there will be some shifting back to the more traditional cropping pattern
as price relativities are adjusted. It is assumed, however, that the
benefits of the project would be mainly from improved yields resulting from
better husbandry practices, increased use of fertilizer and higher yielding
varieties. Yields in both project areas are currently low and substantial
increases should be possible through application of a more intense and
better focussed extension service; the increased availability of seasonal
credit for fertilizer and seed of improved maize varieties should enable
yields to be increased still further. (See Annex III tables for yield
assumptions.) The incremental production expected by year 7 is as follows:
Incremental Production at Full Development (1990)
Crop              Tonnage
Lilongwe North East          Maize -local         628
-improved   5,665
Groundnuts           126
Tobacco              207
Dedza Hills                  Maize -improved   6,441
Groundnuts            15
Beans                199
Wheat                 80
Potatoes             515
With production in both project areas now being devoted largely to
subsistence requirements, estimates of foodcrop production are
approximate, but these incremental amounts represent an increase of roughly
8%, 3%, and 50%6/ of without-project production for maize, groundnuts, and
tobacco respectively in LNE; and for Dedza Hills the increases are
6/ Tobacco purchases by ADMARC from LNE project area have fluctuated
greatly over the past several years. The 50% increase statistic refers
to a 1979/80 - 1980/81 base.



- 34 -
estimated at 12% and 7% and 4% for maize, groundnuts and beans, wheat would
be essentially a new crop for the area since only a few acres were grown in
1981 and there are no reliable estimates of potato production. Incremental
production of groundnuts are likely to exceed these estimates as some shift
of cropping back to groundnuts is expected to follow from improved crop
price relativities.
Consumption
5.02     At present, maize consumption requirements are met in Lilongwe
Northeast but not in Dedza Hills. The incremental production in Lilongwe
North East would be sold, on both the informal market and to ADMARC. In
Dedza Hills it is expected that most of the increased production of
composite maize will be consumed within the area while the hybrid maize
will be sold to either ADMARC or to the informal market.
5.03     It has been assumed that the incremental groundnuts produced in
both areas would be sold to ADMARC for eventual export.
Marketing
5.04     Although ADMARC is responsible for buying surplus smallholder
produce, it is a residual buyer of foodcrops. Local markets provide the
major foodcrop marketing channels in both project areas. In 1980/81 ADMARC
purchased 8700 tons of maize in Lilongwe North East, or about 11% of
estimated production. For groundnuts in Lilongwe Northeast the
corresponding figures were 1600 m.t. and 35%. Although Dedza Hills is a
net maize deficit areas, ADMARC purchased 3700 m.t. of maize or
approximately 7 percent of production. Groundnuts purchased in 1980/81
were 90 m.t. approximately 42 percent of production.
Prices
5.05     Prices are panterritorial and fixed, they are agreed by a Price
Commission and announced prior to the planting season. Price levels
reflect the need to provide production incentives to farmers as well as
permitting ADMARC to earn profits. The Government has introduced a pricinEg
methodology which considers economic export and import parities, ADMARC's
profits, and gross returns to farmers. This was used for the 1982/83 rouncl
of producer prices and should have a beneficial effect on stimulating both
foodcrop and cash crop production in both Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza
Hills. Better relativities between crop prices should assist the extensiort
service in their efforts to introduce a more balanced cropping program
within both areas and so reduce the risks associated with the drift to
monocropping of maize.
B. Tobacco
Production and Exports
5.06     Tobacco production is critical to Malawi's economy.  Although
lower in 1981, tobacco typically provides about 55% of export crop
earnings; it provides the major source of cash income to approximately 20
percent of Malawi's farming families either as smallholders on their own
plots or as labor on estates. The composition of production has changed in



- 35 -
recent years. Typically estates have produced 55-60% of the tobacco
(fire-cured and burley) on 40-45% of the tobacco area whereas smallholders
produced 40-45% of the tobacco (fire-cured, sun or air cured and oriental)
on 55-60% of the land. However, estimates for 1981/82 production indicates
production was 36% flue-cured, 46% burley, 15% fire-cured and 2% sun or air
cured. (Oriental tobacco production while important in some locales is
unimportant nationally.) A small percentage of the flue-cured tobacco is
grown by about 900 smallholders under the Kasungu Flue-Cured Tobacco
Authority. Burley is still restricted almost entirely to estates although
small pilot schemes have now been introduced under the IDA-financed NRDP
III project in Karonga and Chitipa and under the IFAD-funded project in
Dowa West.
5.07     Under the Project, fire-cured tobacco production in Lilongwe
Northeast would increase by about 200 m.t. at full development (year 6 of
the project), from both increased yields and from some substitution for
unimproved maize. This would represent an increase of about 50% of total
production over the 1980/81 crop base from Lilongwe Northeast but the
1980/81 crop was only 50% of that produced in the late 1970s. Although
operating under a quota system (para. 2.09), production has declined
markedly over the past few years and this incremental production could
therefore be accommodated within the system.   Tobacco is not.grown by
smallholders in Dedza Hills.
5.08     Exports of tobacco from Malawi increased rapidly in the 1970s, but
there has been a decline in the 1980s in both flue-cured and dark-fired
tobacco production and exports. The major importers are the United
Kingdom, Netherlands and Germany.
Marketing and Prices
5.09     ADMARC is responsible for marketing the dark-fired, sun and air
cured tobacco from smallholders, which it then sells on open auctions at
Limbe and Lilongwe. ADMARC pays producers on a two-tier system; the first
payment is at a price announced prior to the planting season and which is
paid on receipt of the leaf at the primary market, the second payment is
dependent on the amount realized on the auction floor and is paid usually
in September when the inputs for the new crop have to be purchased. Second
payments were not made in 1979 and 1980 due to the low prices received at
auction but were re-instituted in 1981. Second payments range from
15%-60% of the first payment. Producer prices for tobacco have been less
than one-fifth of the auction price, and ADMARC has realized substantial
profits on its tobacco accounts in the past. This relatively low producer
price has been used in conjunction with a quota system to control the
production of fire, sun and air cured tobaccos. Malawi's share of the
world market for these types is high, about 20%, thus overproduction could
have a disastrous effect on prices, as it has in the past.
5.10     World market prices for tobacco are projected by the World Bank
for flue-cured only and these are expected to remain at approximately the
same level as in the last few years with some narrowing in regional
differentials as developing countries upgrade the quality of their crops.
Prices projected for tobacco in 1990 and 1995 are about $2000 per ton in
1981 constant US dollars. The price trend is thus thought likely to remain
largely stationary over the medium term. ADMARC projects that the prices



- 36 -
of sun, fire and air cured tobaccos will increase slightly in real terms in
the 1980s. GOM is conducting a study of the tobacco sector including:
world market prospects, implications for Malawi's tobacco production and
Malawi's potential for responding to future market prospects.
C. Horticulture
Production
5.11     Fruits, vegetables and potatoes are grown in the higher altitude
locations of the project area, particularly in Dedza Hills. There have
been no quantified estimates of the amount of land devoted to horticultural
crops or the production of fruits and vegetables. However, surveys
indicate that one-third of the households in Dedza Hills derive income from
the sale of horticultural produce which provides about 12% of the cash
income of the rural community. Potatoes are the most important of these
crops, but cabbage, onions, tomatoes, apples, and peaches are also
important in varying degrees. Benefits from the Project would be mainly
from improved yields of potatoes resulting from better husbandry practices
and improved seed stock. But improved storage facilities would reduce
wastage and extend the marketing season. The planting of fruit trees on
the steeper slopes would also provide a conservation-erosion control
benefit. The only quantified benefits of the project is the estimated
incremental production of about 500 tons of potatoes.
Marketing and Prices
5.12     No organized marketing system exists for fruits and vegetables
(including potatoes) and producers make their own arrangements with
middle men or sell directly to customers on the roadside. Major market
areas, such as Lilongwe and Blantyre, are characterized by gluts and
shortages with consequent significant fluctuations in price. Some
institutions such as hotels, schools, military barracks and supermarkets
invite annual tenders for the supply of perishable produce and groups of
farmers cooperate to tender for those orders.  The potential for domestic
market expansion of fresh fruits and vegetables is relatively small, during
the main harvest seasons.  However, the production and marketing season can
be extended by using early/late maturing varieties and improving the
storage facilities,  Small quantities of deciduous fruit are imported each
year and both fruits and vegetables have been exported (by air) to
Seychelles and Europe.  However, exporting has been abandoned due to the
infrequency of intercontinental flights and the relatively low
profitability, The development of the new International airport near
Lilongwe may reopen the possibility of export, but no export benefits are
assumed under the project. The ADMARC Canning Company in Malawi processes
locally grown fruits and vegetables but their requirements are limited and
would not likely impact upon Dedza Hills.
D, Livestock
Production
5,13     Livestock production would increase moderately due to Project
activity. Rehabilitated and new dipping facilities would result in
improved disease control, which would lower mortality rates and improve



- 37 -
productivity (weight gain). Cattle density is relatively high in LNE, at
about 36/km2 but only 18/km2 in Dedza Hills. A population plateau is
expected to be reached soon, with or without the Project. With current
grazing practices (i.e., without large-scale adoption of stallfeeding), a
stable herd size will soon be achieved and calving rates will decline;
under the Project, the stable herd size would be achieved sooner, and the
animals would be larger. The proposed expansion of dairying under the
Project would probably occupy land currently utilized for crop production.
Cattle Marketing and Prices
5.14     Two separate livestock markets operate in parallel although some
overlap does occur. The Cold Storage Company (CSC) buys animals at a fixed
price per kilogram, depending upon grade. Until April 1980, the fixed
price had been below local market prices and CSC was a residual purchaser,
but with current prices more animals are being sold to CSC. Several
auction markets exist where animals are purchased by CSC, local butchers,
other farmers and rural development programs for stallfeeders. Most
purchases, however, are for slaughter: in recent years about 80% of the
animals sold were bought by CSC or local butchers.
5.15     Aniamls sold at auction on a liveweight basis are classified in
one of five categories, but only Grades A and B are suitable for feeders.
Recent average prices in local markets, compared with official fixed prices
are as follows:
Local Market Prices           LWT (K/kg)
Standard                     .44
Commercial                   .33
Inferior                     .26
Grade A                      .44
Grade B                      .39
Official Prices (1981)        CDW (K/kg)
Choice                      1.10
Prime                       0.99
Standard                   0.88
Commercial                 0.77
Inferior                    0.44
The price established in 1980 was the first change in official cattle
prices since 1975 and the price increases of about 60% (for most grades)
have stimulated offtake.  Local auction sales have increased by 50% between
1979 and 1981. However, it is possible the auctions are replacing former
sales between individuals. Under a livestock study, financed by the World
Bank Technical Assistance Loan, the issues of offtake and meat supply,
livestock pricing and meat demand will be studied by the Malawi
Government.
Milk Collection and Prices
5.16     Milk is already collected from the Project areas by Capital Dairy
for processing and sale in Lilongwe. Producer prices vary with the amount
of bulking, but the present average for smallholders in Lilongwe Northeast
is 11 tambala (KO.11) per liter.



- 38 -
Milk prices (Malawi Milk Marketing Board)
(i) for non-registered farmers = 8.58 t/kg for deliveries up to 12290
kg.
(ii) for registered farmers
Delivery (kg)          t/kg
0 to 850               9.02
851 to 1700            9.68
1701 to 3400          10.12
3401 to 6801          10G56
6802 to 13603         11.00
13604 to 15360        11.44
15361               negotiable
The milk price schedule has remained unchanged for 7 years and dairying
does not now favorably compete with alternative cropping enterprises.
Although farmers are quite interested in dairying as demonstrated by the
queue of farmers awaiting dairy animals, this interest is probably based on
some non-quantifiable benefits (see para. 6.07 for discussion). This issue
will also receive attention under the planned Livestock Review.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Farmers Benefits
6.01     The objectives of the Project are to increase farmers' food supply
and cash incomes, and to increase the standard of living through improved
nutrition and improved access to rural water supplies. The Project would
also introduce conservation measures to maintain the productivity of the
soils and yields of traditional crops and would introduce new varieties and
crops and improved husbandry practices to increase crop yields and
livestock productivity. About 10,500 farming families altogether are
expected to benefit from Project activities on crops, representing about
20% of the total population (by 1987/88) in both areas. In Lilongwe
Northeast, about 5,500 farming families are expected to adopt new packages
and husbandry practices over the Project period and in Dedza Hills about
5,000 farming families are expected to participate in the Project's crop
activities. The difference in the two areas is based on the fact that
Dedza Hills is an area of lower potential for improving yields than is
Lilongwe Northeast.  The additional water supplies would provide about 50%
of the area's population with easy access to safe water,
6.02     Details of farm budgets are in Annex III, Tables 9-14; it is
assumed that farm sizes and cropped areas would remain the same under the
Project, so all benefits would be generated by maintaining/improving yields
and by farmers' shifting to more profitable crops (with improvements in
yields of subsistence crops to meet food requirements, more land would be
available for cash crops). The budgets are illustrative only and should be
taken as orders of magnitude.
6.03     In Lilongwe Northeast virtually all farmers have most of their
land in local maize and the remainder in hybrid maize, and, to a lesser



- 39 -
extent, in tobacco as cash crops. In Dedza Hills as well, almost all
farmers have most of their land in local maize, intercropped with pulses,
and other subsistence crops like cassava, with a small portion of their
land used for hybrid maize as a cash crop. With the recent dramatic
increase in the producer price for maize (an increase of over 60% was
effected for the 1981/82 season), hybrid maize has become the most
attractive cash crop in terms of returns to labor (except for potatoes in
Dedza Hills, for farmers with assured market access).
6.04     Illustrative budgets have been worked out for various types of
farms in each area. In Dedza Hills, for a "typical" maize and groundnut
farmer, assuming adoption of composite and hybrid maize and improvements in
groundnuts, as well as in the intercropped pulses, estimated gross incomes
would go up from MK109 (US$106) to MK216 (US$201) and net cash income would
rise from MK6 (US$5) to MK62 (US$58). A maize/potato/wheat farmer would be
able to increase gross income by the largest amount, from MK139 (US$130) to
about MK374 (US$349), with most of the incremental income coming from
potatoes followed by a wheat crop. Net cash income, after deducting for
the value of subsistence, would go up from MK35 (US$33) to MK270 (US$252).
These farmers are limited in number and would not create marketing problems
for the disposal of potatoes.  Only those farmers currently growing
potatoes would be encouraged.
6.05     In Lilongwe Northeast budgets were developed for a "typical"
tobacco farmer, assuming improvements in maize and tobacco and for certain
farmers, the addition of dairy cattle, and a "typical" maize farmer,
assuming improvements in maize and groundnuts. The tobacco farmer, with a
farm size of 2.5 ha, would increase his gross income by about 30%, from
1mK291 (US$271) to MK381 (US$355); after deducting for subsistence and paid
labor, his net cash income is estimated to increase by 63%, from MK138
(US$129) to MK224 (US$209).  The increased income would come equally from
improving tobacco and adopting composite and hybrid maize. The maize
farmer, assuming a switch to composite and hybrid maize varieties and
improved groundnut seeds and husbandry, would increase his gross income by
70%, from MK150 (US$140) to MK256 (US$239); his net cash income from
agriculture after deducting for subsistence, would increase from MK9 (US$8)
to MK106 (US$99).
6.06     The returns per manday to crops under the Project vary
considerably, from MKO.52 for tobacco to MK1.64 for hybrid maize in
Lilongwe Northeast, and in Dedza from MK0.93 for groundnuts to MK1.51 for
potatoes. This compares to an estimated opportunity cost of labor for the
whole Project area of about MK0,50 per day.
6.07     For farmers in Lilongwe Northeast who received credit for dairy
cattle, the benefits at current milk prices would consist mainly of the
steady flow of cash income throughout the year from the sale of milk. In
addition, the non-quantifiable benefits make the dairy enterprise
attractive: the crop rotations with Napier and Rhodes grasses would
maintain or improve the soil fertility and the animals' manure could
replace some purchased fertilizer. Although the return per manday and per
hectare to a two-dairy cow enterprise are less than for the other crops, at
MK0.33 per manday compared to an estimated MK0,52 for tobacco, the demand
for dairy cattle in Lilongwe Northeast exceeds the supply. The opportunity
cost for labor devoted to the dairy operation is relatively low, much of
the labor is performed by children and the adult labor is concentrated in



- 40 -
periods of the day when alternative labor use is limited.   Sensitivity
analysis shows that a small increase (of 10%) in. the milk price would more
than double the net benefits and the Government is now considering an
increase in milk prices, but according to information gathered at
appraisal, such an increase would not be necessary to stimulate farmers'
interest in dairy cows in the Lilongwe Northeast area.
6.08     For livestock owners, rehabilitated and improved dipping
facilities and operations would mean some weight gain and reduced mortality
for their cattle from better health. About 7,200 farmers in LNE (or 20% of
the farm families) own cattle, and because coverage is very good, it is
assumed that all of the cattle would be affected by improved dipping
facilities and better access to drugs. Benefits were not calculated for
the "average" livestock owner as ownership is quite skewed, but for an
individual herd of 10 animals about MK2O (US$19) could be realized after
year 8 of the Project from an estimated 8% increase in cattle weight.
B. Government Cash Flow and Recurrent Cost Implications
6.09     The Project will be the first phase of a long-term development
input into the area,  Thus, at the end of the project implementation period
it would continue to require development resources and a succeeding phase
is anticipated. Project's impact on Government's budget would be negative
and the contribution to Government revenues and foreign exchange would
depend upon ADMARC profits, farmgate and export prices, By the end of the
project annual incremental operating costs, in constant terms, would be
about MK811,00 (US$756,000), including vehicle replacement costs, which
would amount to about MK525,000 (US$489,000) in the two years immediately
following the close of the Project. Assuming a five-year life, the
annualized costs of vehicle replacement are MK105,000 (US$98,000). The
annual incremental net profit likely to accrue to ADMARC by the end of the
project period is about MKG50,000 from the marketing of incremental
groundnuts, tobacco and wheat. Annual incremental foreign exchange
earnings are estimated to be US$530,000 by the end of the Project. While
the economic benefits to the country would exceed costs (para. 6.18), the
cash flow impact for Government would be negative.
C. Economic Analysis
6,10     The main objectives of the rural development projects for Lilongwe
Northeast and Dedza Hills are to improve the productive capacity as well as
to conserve the existing production potential of the areas. Extension and
research efforts focused on adaptive trials to improve crops currently
grown, diversifying into new crops, introducing agroforestry, and improved
veterinary services combined with access to credit are expected to generate
economic benefits. The benefits from increased crop production and
livestock production are quantifiable and are calculated below.
6.11     Economic analyses have been performed on the incremental costs and
benefits, a separate analysis for crops and livestock in the separate
sub-project areas of Lilongwe Northeast and Dedza Hills. One rate of
return was also calculated for the Project as a whole. The assumptions on
cost allocations and incremental benefits are discussed below.



- 41 -
Quantifiable Benefits
6.12     Increased crop production would result from expanded and improved
extension, land husbandry, training, credit and marketing activities under
the Project. Most incremental production would be attributable to improved
yields from better varieties, purer seed, proper fertilizer application and
better husbandry practices. Although the total area cropped is not
expected to increase under the Project, individual crops may be expanded
and the increases in production would, in these cases, come from increased
acreage as well. The assumptions on yield increases and areas are shown in
Annex III, Tables 1-8, and amounts of incremental production were
calculated by assuming varying adoption rates by year and by area, found in
Annex III, Tables 25 and 26.
6.13     The increased livestock products, meat and milk, would come from
several sources. Improved disease control would reduce cattle mortality
and for several years would result in a larger herd size, and therefore
larger offtake, than in a without-project situation. This would exist
until a plateau for the herd size is reached, created by either increased
offtake or reduced fertility (or both) thereby maintaining a stable herd
size. In addition, a gradual increase in weight is expected from improved
disease control. The third source of incremental meat under the Project
would be the farmer-to-farmer stallfeeder program. A small amount of milk
(about 600,000 liters at full development) would be produced by the dairy
program.
6.14     For Lilongwe Northeast, incremental maize production would be the
main benefit, with smaller amounts of groundnuts and tobacco. Incremental
meat and milk would also be produced.  For Dedza Hills, incremental maize
would also dominate the benefits, with potatoes, beans, wheat, groundnuts,
and meat produced in small incremental amounts. Where local maize and
maize/pulse mixtures have been replaced by other crops, the opportunity
cost of this foregone production was incorporated into the analysis.
Economic Prices
6.15     For incremental maize an average import-export parity price was
used to calculate the economic farmgate price, representing foreign
exchange savings (or earnings). This is because Malawi has imported maize
in bad years, been self-sufficient or exported in better years, and
although Government has a policy of self-sufficiency and a large strategic
reserve capacity, it is difficult to predict whether incremental production
from a certain Project area will serve as import-substitute or additional
export. For tobacco and groundnuts export parity prices were used to
calculate the economic farmgate price, representing increased foreign
exchange earnings, with a premium for the groundnut confectionary nuts.
The incremental wheat and milk expected from the Project were valued at
import parity prices as both would be import substitutes. For milk, a
calculation was made for imported reconstituted powdered milk as the
closest substitute, For incremental beef, potatoes, and beans produced by
the Project, local prices were used as these products are neither imported
nor exported to/from Malawi. For meat, the official prices offered by Cold
Storage Company, adjusted to 1983 prices, were used, and are close to
prices prevailing at auctions.



- 42 -
Costs
6.16     The incremental costs included in the economic analyses are the
portions of each activity directly relevant to crops and livestock. The
allocations for the two areas (LNE and Dedza Hills) are marginally
different and are detailed in Annex IV. Fifty to 60% of extension and
training costs were allocated to the costs of the crops component and 5% to
livestock, reflecting the proportion of extension and training effort
devoted to each. For credit, 90% of the costs of administration have been
attributed to crops and 10% to livestock. All of the marketing costs were
allocated to crops and all of the costs of veterinary services were
allocated to the costs of the livestock component. For land husbandry and
horticulture activities, 70% and 25%, respectively, were allocated to the
crops component, with the remainder serving mainly non-quantifiable
benefits such as research and demonstration. The remaining costs of
extension and training were allocated to activities external to the Project
and non-quantifiable activities such as working with farmers clubs,
conservation work and training in nutrition, hygiene, or homecraft skills
or staff training in technical and administrative matters. The costs of
monitoring and evaluaton and project headquarters for each area, together
with 50% of the costs of strengthening LADD headquarters for each area7/
were added together to arrive at costs of administration, and 50-60% of
these costs were allocated to the crops component, 5% to livestock and the
remainder being for Project activities with non-quantifiable benefits.
(See para. 6,18 for proportion of total costs included in the analyses.)
General Assumptions
6.17     The incremental costs and benefits of the Project components are
in Annex IV and incorporate the following general assumptions:
(a) all prices are in constant mid-year 1983 prices except for those
of civil works, which are increased in real terms over the project
period to reflect their rising real costs;
(b) all costs include physical contingencies for capital items and are
net of identifiable taxes;
(c) the shadow price of foreign exchange is equal to the nominal price
as the official exchange rate is considered to reflect its
appropriate value; and
(d) the conversion factor for unskilled and agricultural labor wage
rates is 1.0 because although alternative employment opportunities
and the value of alternative output varies throughout the area, on
average the estimated opportunity cost is about MKO.50/day, which
is the official minimum rural wage.
6.18     The estimated rates of return are as follows:
71/ With five project areas, the costs of LADD headquarters attributable to
any one project area should be 20% of the total.



- 43 -
Dedza Hills        Lilongwe Northeast         Total Project
ERR   Total Costs      ERR   Total Costs       ERR   Total Costs
(percent)
Crop          12       49            21        50            17        50
Livestock    13         6            21        18            17        12
Total     12        55            21        68            17       62
6.19     Sensitivity Analysis.  The switching values for the entire Project
show that benefits would have to drop by 17% or costs increase by 20% in
order for the rate of return to drop below 10% or for the net present value
to drop below zero at a 10% discount rate. This might happen if all crop
yields or crop values were to be 31% below expectations or if the uptake
rate by farmers were to be 12% of the population over the Project period
rather than the estimated 20%; or if the real cost of construction were to
increase drastically. These values are presented in the table below:
Switching Values of Critical Variables
Variable                                      Switching Values 1/
Maize yield per hectare                               -24
Yield per hectare - all crops                         -31
Farmers' uptake rate                                 -40
Fertilizer costs                                     +52
Construction costs                                  +161
1/  The percentage change which would reduce the net present
value of the entire project to zero at a 10% opportunity
cost of capital.
If no benefits were generated by the conservation efforts of the Land
Husbandry component or if all benefits were delayed by one year the overall
rate of return would decrease to 15% or 12% respectively.
Risks
6.20     Because the project areas are already densely populated and
farmed, the risk of overcrowding exists, particularly for Dedza Hills.
Unless land husbandry is successful in introducing conservation measures
into Dedza Hills crop yields may not be realized and, in fact,
deterioriation of the environment would probably cause a gradual decrease
in crop yields. However, the estimates for incremental yield increases are
conservative and considerably less than those obtained in nearby Lilongwe
RDP. Further, maize yields in the hill areas were estimated to be 10%
lower than maize yields on the plain. For these reasons, the Project has
put emphasis on land husbandry, on adaptive research including
agro-forestry, and on focussing extension efforts on farm systems and the
importance of intercropping. In addition, unless relative prices change,
the tendency to monocrop with hybrid maize (particularly in LNE) may be
difficult to overcome. The Government has indicated its intention to



- 44 -
increase both groundnut and tobacco prices relative to maize and its
willingness to follow a pricing methodology that should further improve
relative prices in future years (para. 3231). Finally, some risk exists
for the marketing of potatoes, but because the number of farmers to receive
improved seed for potatoes is limited, the incremental amounts are modest.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) Project staff employed under the Development Budget would be
transferred in an orderly fashion to the Revenue Budget over the
duration of the Project (para. 3.28);
(b) incremental staff for the Project would be obtained, to the extent
possible, by transferring surplus staff from other project areas
and Government would provide IDA with a staff redeployment
schedule by September 30, 1983 (para. 4.07);
(c) annual work plans would be submitted to IDA for comment after
clearance by MOA (paras. 4.05 and 4.12);
(d) procurement procedures as outlined in paragraph 4.22 would be
followed;
(e) Project accounts would be audited by the Auditor General, or by
independent auditors whose experience and qualifications are
acceptable to IDA, and the audited accounts together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA not later than six
months following the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.24);
(f) Government would maintain the position of NRDP coordinator at an
administrative level of at least Deputy Secretary;
(g) smallholder commodity prices for the years of the Project would be
established at a level consistent with an agreed methodology and
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.28);
(h) that GOM would ensure the allocation of foreign exchange for the
acquisition of adequate imported farm inputs (para. 4.29); and
(i) reporting procedures as outlined in paragraph 4.27 would be
followed; no later than six months after the closing date,
Government would prepare and submit to IDA a Project Completion
Report;
7.02     A condition of disbursement against civil works would be the
preparation of a program acceptable to IDA, specifying the designs and
methods of construction (paras. 4,01 and 4.23).
7.03     A condition of disbursement against expenditures for water
facilities would be the submission to IDA of a proposal for maintenance and
maintenance cost recovery (paras. 3.20, 4,21 and 4.23).
7.04     The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of SDR      million (US$10.6 million equivalent) on standard terms to
the Government of Malawi.



MALAWI
NRDP IV
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION CHART (UNDER REVISION)
CARL AR CCPrincipal Secretaryi Pri                  R
DStation  - Land Husbany                          - Di r
D
-  aktin
DvisionAResg)rt l                                    MgmtFa  M eUnitsmer                                                            l
vision    Ag.      Ir                  Ag~~- Irigation                                         e  rnut                      
(CAROCADOD Womn    S ervice
Asst             Ass.t    AssF,t           Asst                                Health &           Vet.
CARO             CARO    CADO              CADO                               Production        Research
HQ Specialist              HQ Specialists                                      Spe cSiael tisetis
- National Research        - Extension                                             - Veterinary
Stations               - Land Husbandry                                        - Dairy
- Research Coordinators - Crops                                                    - Animal Husbandryr
- Soil Survey              - Credit                                                - Livestock
- Training
- Marketing
- Farm Management
- Irrigation
R   Women's Services
- Construction
Dv. Aea                       -Specialist Staff,                 Specialist Staff,
Vt ervisors                        Field Services                   l'evelopment Services
Extension                        - Marketing
.  _                ~~~~~- Veterinary                 - '31nputs
Specialists         .         _-  Research                                - Forestry 
-  Credit                 E A-  Animal Husbandry                          - Fisheries                                   
-  Extension        [Supervisors        - Credit                          - Roads                                                      r 
-  Veterinary                           -  Land  Husbandry                - Community Development
-  etc.                                                                   - Buildings



MALAWI
NRDP IV - Dedza Hills
Implementation Schedule
Pre-                Py 1               PY 2               PY 3               PY 4                PY 5
investment
1    2   3    4   1   2    3    4   1   2    3    4    1   2   3    4    1   2   3    4
Civil Works Construction
Housing                Iflhf*Dilhhhh1                                         -
Office Space            *ua m mma*
Livestock Dips                   mia lS lli  DI_
Wells/Boreholes                                                                                iil
Market Sheds                      111111  iI         _
Vehicle Procurement                                                al1                                                     l
Training                                            P- M                                   - 
Demonstrations and Trials                    aSg Ii li 'i                            I  31135          urn. usa       I    51 _1
I  ___ _ _____________________ ___ __ =_ _ 7z_ _ __ _  _____________________
i*i**IEEI Planning, Tendering, Contracting
_      _N ~    Construction, Implementation 
rt -
World Ban k-241t18               H



MALAWI
NRDP IV - Lilongwe Northeast
Implementation Schedule
Pre-                PYI               PY2                PY3                PY4                PY5
investment       1   2   3    4   1   2   3    4   1   2   3    4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3    4
Civil Works Construction
Housing                  3113133UK
Office Space             11311h131313 
Livestock Dips    I      1 111 1  335 _ 1
Wells/Boreholes                                                        -    -                 _ll  _11
Market Sheds            IEhI3hI***hS3I 3Fl3 m3 m
Vehicle Procurement                            1311 1111 111M1 3m mm  mm                3m3 woo
Training                      I I go I I so  I I I                                       m    - m      -                 
Demonstrations and Trials                      if let if    l    3 l1_1 13 I          loll a1t  '          _1 o   I   I
iISSEIIUPlanning, Tendering, Contracting
_C       Construction, Implementation
World Bank-24119           L  H



- 48 -                           ANNEX I
Table 1
MALAWI
Dedza Hills RDP
Key Indicators
Units       PYI       PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5
I.   Credit
Seasonal items
Maize seed                            mt          10         25         55         80        100
Groundnut seed                        mt           2          4          5          7          9
Wheat seed                            mt           0.6        1.2        1.8        2.4        :3.0
Bean seed                             mt           4         10         22         32        40
Calcium ammonium nitrate
fertilizer                         mt          48        121        266        387        484.
20:20:0 fertilizer                    mt          77        194       425        618        771
Dipterex insecticide              packets    7,760    19,760    43,760    63,760    79,760
Feeder cattle                         No.         50        100        150        200       250
Value of seasonal credit
(crops and livestock)           MK 1,000       52        130        298        464        623
Value of medium-term credit       MK 1,000         9         10         11         12        13
II.   Incremental Credit Area
Improved maize                        ha         310        790     1,750      2,550      3,190
Improved maize intercropped
with beans                          ha          78        198       438        638        798
Groundnuts                            ha          22         44         66         88        11(
Potatoes                              ha          20         40         60        80        10(0l
Wheat                                 ha          20         40         60         80       10(
III. Civil Works constructed
Staff houses                          No.         55         52         15          2          2
Offices                              sq. ft.  1,292      2,492           0          0          (0
Training centers (included
with offices)                       No. 
ADMARC input shed with office         No.          1          1          0          0          (
Livestock dips - new                  No.          0          0          0          0          0
- renovated          No.          9          0          0          0          (
Slaughter slabs                       No.          0          0          2         0          0
Poultry distribution house            No.          0          0          3          0         0
Water points                          No.          0          0          0        298       298
Boreholes rehabilitation              No.          0          0          0         23        24
Wells rehabilitation                  No.          0          0          0         50         50
Water supply, maintenance stores  sq. ft.          0          0          0        300       300
August 18, 1982



- 49 -                            ANNEX I
Table 2
MALAWI
Lilongwe North-East RDP
Key Indicators
Units       Pyl        PY2        PY3         PY4        PY5
I.   Credit
Seasonal items
Maize seed                             mt           6         20          40         53         65
Groundnut seed                         mt          12         24         36          48         60
Calcium ammonium nitrate
fertilizer                          mt           47        133        261        347        426
20:20:0 fertilizer                     mt          73        199        382         508        624
Dipterex insecticide               packets    5,280    15,840    32,160    42,720    52,320
Daconil fungicide                      ha          11         22         33         44          55
Tobacco nursery inputs                 ha          80        160        240         320        400
Feeder cattle                          No.        100        200        300        400         500
Dairy cows                        2-cow units    35           70        105         140        175
Value of seasonal credit
(crop and livestock)             MK 1,000        60        150        296        424        552
Value of medium-term credit        MK 1,000        28         30         34          38         42
II.  Incremental credit area
Improved maize                         ha         264        792      1,608      2,136      2,616
Groundnuts                             ha         150        300        450        600         750
Tobacco                                ha          80        160        240        320         400
III. Civil Works constructed
Staff houses                           No.         65         47          8           0          0
Offices                               sq. ft.  1,863       1,863          0           0          0
Training centers (included
with offices)                       No.            - 
ADMARC input shed with office          No.          1          1          0           0          0
Livestock dips - new                   No.          0          3          0           0          0
- renovated           No.         18          0           0          0          0
Slaughter slabs                       No.           0          0          5          0           0
Poultry distribution house             No.          0          0           3          0          0
Water points                           No.          0        441        441           0          0
Boreholes rehabilitation               No.          0         20         20           0          0
Wells rehabilitation                   No.          0         30         30           0          0
Water supply, maintenance stores  sq. ft.           0        450        300           0          0
July 12, 1982



ANNEX I
- 50 -                              Table 3
MALAWI
DOWA WEST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IDA                   Quarter                   Quarterly              Cumulative
Fiscal Year                Ending                  Disbursements         Disbursements
(US$ 000)
1982/83            June 30, 1983                      200                     200
1983/84            September 30, 1983                 200                     400
December 31, 1983                 400                     800
March 31, 1984                     600                  1,400
June 30, 1984                     700                   2,100
1984/85            September 30, 1984                 700                   2,800
December 31, 1984                 700                   3,500
March 31, 1985                    700                   4,200
June 30, 1985                     600                   4,800
1985/86            September 30, 1985                 600                  5,400
December 31, 1985                 600                   6,000
March 31, 1986                     500                  6,500
June 30, 1986                     500                   7,000
1986/87            September 30, 1986                 500                  7,500
December 31, 1986                 500                   8,000
March 31, 1987                    400                   8,400
June 30, 1987                     400                   8,800
1987/88            September 30, 1987                 400                   9,200
December 31, 1987                 300                   9,500
March 31, 1988                     300                  9,800
June 30, 1988                     300                  10,100
1988/89            September 30, 1988                 200                  10,300
December 31, 1988                 200                  10,500
March 31, 1989                     100                 10,600



-51 -                                 ANNEX  II
TaDle 1
MALAWI
NRDP IV - DEDZA HILLS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(MK '000)                    (US$ '000)           Z of
-------------------------- --------------------------Foreign  % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange Base Costs
EXTENSION SERVICES                 616.10   445.22 1,061.32   574.13   414.89   989.03           41.9        22.1
TRAINING                           112.89   175.53   288,43   105.20   163.58   268.78           60.9         6.0
RESEARCH                            100.83   113.66   214.49    93.96   105.92   199.88          53.0         4.5
HORTICULTURE                        30.45    26.96    57.42    28.38    25,13    53.51           47.0         1.2
LAND HUSBANDRY                      133.58   134.01   267.59   124.48   124.88   249.36          50.1         5.6
LIVESTOCK AND VETERINARY             45.94   102.86   148.79    42.81    95.85   138.66          69.1         3,1
CREDIT SUPERVISION                  57.01    36,39    93.40    53.13    33.9l    87.04          39.0          1.9
CREDIT FUND                         143.81   323.04   466.84   134.01   301.03   435.04         69.2          9.7
MARKETING                           79.74   103.05   182.79    74.31    96.03   170.34           56.4         3.8
WATER SUPPLIES                     336,722  316.77   653.49   313.78   295.19   608.97           48,5        13.6
MONITORING AND EVALUATION           58.9    31.34    89.43    54.13    29.21    83.34           35,0         1.9
PROJECT HEADI'UARTERS              34G.93   416.93   757.86   317.71   388.53   706.23           55.0        15.8
LADD HEADQUARTERS                   133.9?   392.51   526.49   124.86   365.77   490.63          74.6        10,9
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2,190.08 2,618.26 4,808.34 2,040.89 2i439.90 4,480.79          54,5       1000.
Phssical ContinAencies               114.88   139.05   253.94   107.06   129.58   236.64          54.8         5,3
Price Contingencies                 937.11   707.44 1,644,56   873.28   659,25 1,532.53           43.0        34.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                  3y242.08 3,464.76 6,706.83 3,021.22 3,228.74 6,249.96           51.7       139.5
February 7, 1983  08'48



- 52 -
ANNEX  II
Table 2
MALAWI
NRDP IV - LILONGWE NtE. RURAL DIEVELOFPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(MK '000)                    (US$ '000)           Z of
-------------------------- --------------------------Foreign  % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Loca2   Foreign   Total   Exchange Base Cofts
EXTENSION                                   596.65   559t68 1,156.33   555,99   521.i55 1!077.54         48.4        22.6
TRAiNING                                    125.20   177.30   302.50   116.67   165.22   281+89          58.6         5.9
RESEARCH                                     74.57   110+74   185. 31    69.49   103.19   172.68         59.8         3+6
LAND HUSBAND'ARY                            124.00   134.51   258.51   115.55   125,34   240.89          52.0         5t1
LIVESTOCK ANID VETERINARY SERVICES          234.46   308.56   543.01   218,48   287,53   506.02          56.8        10,6
CR.EDIT SUPERVISION                          56.42    39,40    95.82    52,57    36.72    89.29          41.1         1.9
CREDIT FUNDS                                210.12   279,63   489.75   195.81   260.58   456.38          57.1         9,6
MARKET ING                                   79.50   103.33   182.28    74.08    96.29   170.37          56i5         3.6
WATER SUPPLIES                              519.91   546.02 1!065,93   484.48   508.82   993,30          51.2        20.2
MONITORINS  AND EVALUATION                   86.19    40,85   127.04    80.32    38.06   118,38          32,2         2.5
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                        294.34   405.54   699.88   274.28   377.91   652.19          579         13577
Total BASELINE COSTS                          2,y401.36 2y705,55 5,106,91 2,237.73 2,521#20 4,758.94         53+0       100.0
Physical Contirrencies                       127,16   162.0 9   289.26   118.50   151.05   269.55         56.0         5f7
Price Contingencies                          806.20   471.08 1,277.28   751.27   438.98 1!190.25          36.9        25.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                           3y334,73 3,338.72 6,673.45 3,107.50 3,111.23 6,218.74          50.0       130.7
Februamr  Ry 1?83  00?'O4



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Table 3
MALAWI
NROP IV - DEDIA HILLS RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cosponent by Time
(MK '000)
Base Costs                        h.tA1
1        2        3       4        5         MK    (LUS '000)
EXTENSION SERVICES               347.20   370.19  190.32    79.76    73.86 1t061.32       989.03
TRAINING                         119.60    51.87   38.20    38.20    40.56   208.43       268.78
RESEARCH                          49+94    45.26   51.29    34.59    33.41   214.49       199.88
HORTICULTURE                      24.57      9.54    6.87     9.57    6b87    57.42        53i51
LAND HUSBANDRY                    31+73   132.56   47.78    27.17    28.35   267.59       249,36
LIVESTOCK AND VETERINARY          53.73    19+92   31.12    22.01    22.01   148,79       138.66
CREDIT SUPERVISION                28.45    39.12    8,22      9.40     8,22    93+40       87.04
CREDIT FUND                       61.59    78.59  138,38   108.1?    80.09   466.84       435.04
MARKETING                         85.25    86.95    3+53      3.53     3.53   182.79      170,34
WATER SUPPLIES                        -         -    8.01   314.71   330,77   653.49      608.97
MONITORiNG AND EVALUATION         24.02    31.17   12.20    11.02    11.02    89.43        83.34
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS             258.85   208.54   95.49    99.03    95.94   757.86       706.23
LADD HEADQUARTERS                289.94   139.64   37.19    29.86    29.86   526.49       490.63
Total BASELINE COSTS              1l374.88 1,213.35  668.59   787.03   764.49 4i808.34   4,480,79
Physical Contingencies             88.55    82.25   17,82    33.14    32,17   253.94    2136,64
Price Contingencies                78.09   237.37  203.89   460,37   664.83 17644.56   1,532.53
Total PROJECT COSTS                1,541.53 1532.98  890.29 1"280.54 19461.49 6.706.83   6f249.96
Foreign Exch8nrie                 949.87   774.23  439+13   610.39   691.14 3,464.76   3i228.74
-------------------------------------------------------1-__------83----------__--------------------
Februars 9y 1?83 20238



- 54  -                                                ANNEX  II
Table 4
MALAWI
NRDP IV - LILONGWE N.E. RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ProJect Component bv Time
(MK '000)
Base Costs                        Total
1        2        3         4       5        MK    (US$ '000)
EXTENSION                                  449.34   377.60   149.04   93,12   87.22 15156,33   1,077.54
TRAINING                                   112.83    54.46    44.60   45.78   44.83   302.50        281.89
RESEARCH                                    86.72    24.31    23,97   26.33   23.97   185.31        172.68
LAND HUSBANDARY                             87.18    78.20    30.65   31.83   30.65   258.51        240.89
LIVESTOCK AND VETERINARY SERVICES          167.64   172.36    72.71   68.11   6''.20   543i01       506.02
CREDIT SlUPERVISION                         28.74    39.66      8.75    9.93    8.75    95.82        89.29
CREDIT FUNDS                                88.39   108.69   133.99   89.39   69.29   489.75        456.38
MARKETING                                   85.26    86.96      3.54    3.54    3.54   182.83       170.37
WATER SUPPLIES                              84.83   433.05   448.96   49.55   49.55 1,065.93        9?3.30
MONITORING AND EVALUATION                   48,21    29.17    16.16   17.34   16.16   127.04        118.38
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                       335.06   146.61    71.40   74.95   71.86   699.8P        652.19
Total BASELINE COSTS                         1,574.19 1Y551.06 1003.77  509.86  468.02 5,106.91   4!758.94
Physical Contingencies                      125,81   111.43    49.70    2.24    0.07   289.26        269.55
Price Contingencies                          91i03   316.56   344,97  2215.36  299.37 1,277,28   1,190.25
Total PROJECT COSTS                         1l791,03 1979.05 1,398.45  737,47  767.46 6,673.45   6,218.74
Foreign Exchan4e                          1!064+57   938.20   631.94  356.15  347.87 3,338+72   3,111.23
Februery 9, 1983  20+20



ANNEX III
- 55 -                                Table 1
Page 1
Dedza Hills         Hectare budget for maize
Maize without project        Local
Yield kg/ha 1/               800
Price MK/kg                    0.11
Gross revenue                 88.00
Variable cost:  seed 2/ 25 kg          2.75
fertilizer 3/        -
credit               -
sub total            2.75
Gross margin/ha               85.25
Labor man day/ha             120
Income/man day                 0.71
Maize with project
(EPAs 5&6)              Local         Hybrid       Composite
Yield kg/ha                1,200          3,000         2,250
Price MK/kg                    0.11           0.11          0.11
Gross revenue                132.00         330.00        247.50
Variable cost:  seed                   2.75          20.83          9.38
fertilizer 4/       10.50          95.00         82.00
dipterex             -               6.60          6.60
credit               -             12.24           9.80
sub total           13.25         134.67         107.78
Gross margin/ha              118.75         195.33        139.72
Labor man day/ha             130            165           150
Income/man day                 0.91           1.18          0.93
1/ NSSA 1980/81.
2/ Local seed (retained, value equals sales foregone equivalent), hybrid
maize (MH12), composite maize (UCA).
3/ Fertilizer recommended for hybrid 40 kg P205 and 80 kg N, i.e., 200 kg
20:20:0 + 200 kg S/A; composite 200 kg 20:20:0 + 150 kg S/A.
4/ 1 bag S/A per ha for local maize, hybrid 200 kg 20:20:0 plus 150 kg
CAN; composite 200 kg 20:20:0 plus 100 kg CAN.
August 13, 1982



ANNEX III
- 56 -                                  Table  1
Page 2
Dedza Hills        Hectare budget for maize (cont'd)
Maize with project (EPAs 7&8)
Local         Hybrid       Composite
Yield kg/ha                1,000           2,700         2,025
Price MK/kg                     0.11           0.11           0.11
Gross revenue                 110.00         297.00         222.75
Variable cost:  seed                    2.75          20.83          9.38
fertilizer 1/        13.00          95_00          68.00
dipterex              -              6.60           6.60
credit                -             12.24           8.40
sub total            15.75         134.67          92.38
Gross margin/ha                94.25         162.33         130.37
Labor man day/ha              130            160            148
Income/man day                  0.73           1.01           0.88
1/ For hybrid recommendations should be modified to 200 kg 20:20:0 plus
150 kg CAN per ha; for composite 150 kg 20:20:0 plus 100 kg CAN per ha..
August 13, 1982



ANNEX III
Table  2.
DEDZA HILLS             HECTARE BUDGET FOR MAIZE/BEANS
Maize/beans without project (local varieties of both maize and beans)
Maize/beans with project       (UCA maize and selected bean seed)
Without project            With project
Yield kg/ha maize                        800                    2,100
kg/ha beans                        150                     400
Price MK/kg maize                          0.11                     0.11
beans                         0.125                    0.125
Gross revenue                            106.75                   281.00
Variable costs:  seed maize                      2.75                     9.38
beans 2/                 2.50                    16.00
fertilizer 1/                         -                     68.00
dipterex                                                     6.60
credit                                -                     10.00
sub total                            5.25                  109.98
Gross margin/ha                          101.50                   171.02
Labor manday/ha                          150                      180
Income/manday                              0.68                     0.95
1/ 150 kg 20:20:0 plus 100 kg CAN per ha.
2/ 50 kg of bean seed at 0.32/kg.
August 13, 1982



- 58 -                                ANNEX III
Table 3
Dedza Hills      Hectare budget for groundnuts (EPAs 5 and 6)
Without project       With project
Yield kg/ha                                270 1/                400
Price MK/kg                                  0.575                 0.575
Gross revenue                              154.10                230.00
Variable cost    seed 80 kg/ha              46.00 2/              48.00 3/
fertilizer                 -                     -
credit                     -                     4.80
sub total                 46.00                 52.80
Gross margin                               109.25                177.20
Labor man day 4/                           185                   192
Income/man day                               0.59                  0.92
1/   Field Surveys of Evaluation Unit, AES and NSSA preliminary data.
2/   Retained, cost equals equivalent sales value foregone.
3/   Seed purchased from National Seed through ADMARC.
4/   172 md/ha to prepare land, plant, supply, weed and lift, thereafter
20 kg/md to shell and grade.
August 13, 1982



_ 59 -                             ANNEX III
Table 4
DEDZA HILLS          HECTARE BUDGET FOR POTATOES (EPA 8)
Without project            With project
Yield kg/ha                       3,400 1/                   6,000 1/
Value INK/kg                          0.13 2/                    0.13
Gross revenue                       442.00                     780.00
Variable costs:  seed 3/                 130.00                      200.00
fertilizer _/                 10.50                       56.00
Dithane ?445                     -                         19.04
sub total                     140.50                      275.04
Gross margin/ha                     301.50                     504.96
Labor manday/ha                     275                        336
Incorae/manday                        1.10                       1.50
1/ Estimated yields of average and better than average Tsangano potato
growers, ware crop only, chats assumed to be locally consumed.
2/ Average price received by Tsangano farmers at farm-gate.
3/ Retained seed without project, purchased seed with project.
4/ 50 kg/sulphate of aimrionia for without project; 200 kg 20:20:0 for with
project.
July 12, 1982



ANNEX III
- 60-                              Table 5
DEDZA HILLS             HECTARE BUDGET FOR WHEAT (EPA 8)
Without project              With project
Yield kg/ha                         360                        800
Price MK/kg                           0.22                       0.22
Gross revenue                        79.20                     176.00
Variable costs:  seed 80 kg 1/            17.60                       32.00
fertilizer 2/                                             55.00
credit charge                       -                         8.70
sub total                         17.60                      95.70
Gross margin/ha                      61.60                      80.30
Labor manday/ha                      74                         85
Income/manday                         0.83                       0.94
1/ Without project local unselected seed at 22t/kg; with project package
improved selected seed at 40t/kg.
2/ Without project nil, with project 150 kg 20:20:0 plus 50 kg CAN per ha.
July 12, 1982



- 61 -                                ANNEX III
Table 6
Lilongwe North-East RDP          Hectare budget for maize
Maize without project        Local
Yield kg/ha 1/             1,160
Price MK/kg                    0.11
Gross revenue                127.60
Variable cost:  seed 2/ 25 kg          2.75
fertilizer 3/        -
credit               -
sub total            2.75
Gross margin/ha              124.85
Labor man day/ha             100
Income/man day                 1.25
Maize with project
Local         Hybrid       Composite
Yield kg/ha                1,500          3,400         2,600
Price MK/kg                    0.11           0.11          0.11
Gross revenue                137.50         374.00        286.00
Variable cost:  seed                   2.75          20.83          9.38
fertilizer 4/       10.50          95.00         82.00
dipterex 5/          -               6.60          6.60
credit               -              12.24          9.80
sub total           13.25         134.67         107.78
Gross margin/ha              124.25         239.33        178.22
Labor man day/ha             105            145           130
Income/man day                 1.18           1.65          1.37
1/  NSSA 1980/81
2/ Local seed (retained, cost equals equivalent sales foregone),
hybrid (MH12), composite (UCA).
3/  Fertilizer as recommended:  MH12 250 kg 20:20:0 + 250 kg sulphate of
ammonia/ha UCA 200 kg 20:20:0 + 200 kg sulphate of ammonia/ha
4/  50 kg sulphate of ammonia per ha for local maize, and for MH12 200
kg/ha 20:20:0 plus 150 kg CAN (26%) and for UCA 200 kg/ha 20:20:0 plus
100 kg CAN (26%).
5/  2.5% dipterex for stalk borer control
August 13, 1982



- 62 -
ANNEX III
Table 7
LLNE RDP           Hectare budget for groundnuts (Chalimbana)
Without project       With project
Yield kg/ha                                300 1/                480
Price MK/kg                                  0.575                 0.575
Gross revenue                              172.50                276.00
Variable cost    seed 80 kg/ha              46.00 2/              48.00 3/
fertilizer                 -                    -
credit                     -                    4.80
sub total                 46.00                52.80
Gross margin                               126.50                223.20
Labor man day 4/                           187                   196
Income/man day                               0.68                  1.14
Hectare budget for groundnuts sprayed with Daconil (10% of adopters)
Yield kg/ha 5/                             800
Price MK/kg                                  0.575
Gross revenue                              460.00
Variable cost    seed                       48.00
daconil spraying         105.00
1/3 cost of sprayer       30.00
credit                    18.30
sub total                201.30
Gross margin                               258.70
Labor man day                              218
Income/man day                               1.19
1/   Field Surveys of Evaluation Unit, AES and NSSA preliminary data.
2/   Retained, cost equals equivalent sales value foregone.
3/   Seed purchased from National Seed through ADMARC.
4/   172 md/ha to prepare land, plant, supply, weed and lift, thereafter
20 kg/md to shell and grade.
5/   Trials in the LADD area over 10 years (1970/71 - 1979/80) showed a 68%
increase in yield from protection against foliar diseases.
August 13, 1982



- 63 -                              ANNEX III
Table 8
LLNE RDP       Hectare budget ror tobacco (Northern Division Dark-Fired)
Without proJect        With project
Yield kg/ha 1/                             350                   450
Price MK/kg 7/                               0.61                  0.70
Gross revenue                              213.50                315.00
Variable costs:  seed                        -
nursery                   15.00                 15.00
fertilizer 3/             72.00                 96.00
credit                     8.70                 11.10
sub total                 95.70                122.10
Gross margin                               117.80                192.90
Labor man day                              350                   370
Income/man day                               0.34                  0.52
1/   Mean of present range of smallholder NDDF tobacco 7i7elds without
project, with project 90% of present upper end of range.
2/   Mean of grades inclusive of assumed 15 percent borus, with project
includes prospective price increase, average could be assumed to
improve still further with improvement in grading.
3/   Withlout proiect assumes not all actual tobacco package is applied to
tobacco as full utilization of recommended fertilizer should produce
higher yields than the average recorded. With project application
would be 250 kg/ha 20:20:0 plus 100 kg CAN (26%).
July 12, 1982



MALAWI
Dedza Hills RDP
Typical Farm Budget (Maize/pulse Farmer) 1/
(MK)
Without Project                                                              WIth Projlect
Income                                                                   Income
Crop Area    Labor    Gross        per                                  Crop Area   Labor       Gross        per
Crop                   ha       Mandays   Margin   Manday                       Crop            ha     Mandays    Margin    Manday
Maize - Purestand                0.16         19      13.64    0.72             Maize - Hybrid            0.32        53      62.51       1.18
Maize/pulses                     0.92        139      93.38    0.67             Maize - Composite         0.32        48      44.71      0.93
Maize/pulses/groundnuts          0.08         12       8.80    0.73             Maize/pulse improved    0.16          29      27.36      0.94
Maize/sweet potatoes             0.08         12       8.80    0.73             Maize pure stand local  0.16          19       13.64     0.72
Total farming                1.24        182    125.12                     Maize/pulse/sweet
potatoes/groundnuts   0.28         42       30.80      0.73
Income/Manday 2/                                       0.69
Total farming       1.24       191      179.02
Per Capita Income 3/                                  25.02
Income/Manday                                  0.94
Value of Subsistence 4/                              125.12                                                                                         Z
Per Capita Income                             35.80
Net Cash Income                                     nil
Value of Subsistence                         150.00
Variable Costs                                         6.11
Net Cash Income                               29.02
Variable Costs                                97.09
1/ 50 percent of the maize is planted in pure stand to improved varieties and some of the intercropped maize/beans is improved.
2/  No labor outside that of family required.
3/  Faaily size 5.
4/ Farm,er retains all his crops for subsistence in the without-project situation, in the with-project situation the farmer retains
1,250 kg maize and all his other crops for subsistence and sells his hybrid maize and 158 kg of his composite maize to ADMARC.
July 8, 1982
FH
H



MALAWI
Dedza Hills RDP
Typical Farm Budget (Maize/Groundnut Farmer in EPAs 5 or 6
(M1)
Without Project                                                               With Project
Income                                                                      Income
Crop Area    Labor    Gross         per                                   Crop Area   Labor        Gross        per
Enterprise                ha       Mandays   Margin   Manday                 Enterprise              ha      Mandays    Margin    Manday
Maize/pulse rlxture               0.80        120      81.20    0.68          Maize Composite/pulse         0.60        108      102.61      0.95
Maize pure stand                  0.20         24      17.05    0.71          Mlaize - iiybrid              0.40         66       78.13      1.18
Groundnuts                        0.10         19      10.81    0.57          Groundnuts                    0.20         38       35.44      0.93
Cassava and others                0.30         15        -        -           Other                         0.20         10         -         -
Total farming                1.40        178    1U9.06                        Total                    1.40       222      216.18
Income per manday 2/                                    0.61                  Income Per Manday                                    0.97
Per Capita Income 3/                                   21.81                  Per Capita Income                                   43.24
Value of Subsistence 4/                               103.00                  Value of Subsistence                               153.60
Net Cash Income                                         6.06                  Net Cash Income                                     62.58
Variable Costs                                          9.35                  Variable Costs                                     130.42
1/  Maize, maize/pulse mixture and groundnuts are improved.                                                                                               X a
2/  No labor outside that of family required.
3/  Fan,ily size 5.                                                                                                                                      OC-
4/  Far,er retains all his maize and beans and his 'other crops' in the without project situation and all his composite maize, 120 kg
of beans and other crops in the with-project situation.
June 24, 1982



MIALAWI
Dedzan h1il ls RDP
Typical Farm Budget (Maize/Potato/Wheat Farmer in EPAs 7 and 8 1/
(UK)
Without Project                                                                   With Project
Income                                                                        Incor-e
Crop Area    Labor    Gross          per                                    Crop Area   Labor        Gross         per
Crop                     ha       Mandays   Margin   MandEZ                         Crop             ha      Mandays    Margin    Manday
Maize intercropped                                                                  Maize intercropped
with beans                      0.84         126      85.26      0.68               with beans               0.70        126      119.71       0.95
Maize pure stand                   0.16          19      13.64     0.72             Potatoes 6/                0.40        134      201.98       1 .51           a'
Potatoes                           0.10          28      30.15     1.08             Wheat 6/                   0.40         34       32.12       0.94
Other Crops 2/                     0.10          15      10.00    0.67              Others                     0.10         25       20.00       0.80
Total farming                1.20        1l8      139.05                            Total farrming        1.20       319       373.81
Income Per Manday 3/                                     0.74                       Income/Manday                                      1.71
Per Capita Income 4/                                     27.81                      Per Capita Income                                 74.76
Value of Subsistence 5/                                 103.75                      Value of Subsistence                             103.75
Net Cash Income                                          35.30                      Net Cash Income                                 270.06
Variable Costs                                           21.35                      Variable Costs                                  230.29
1/  Maize intercropped with beans are improved, potatoes are improved and wheat introduced as a catch crop after potatoes, vegetablesb
are improved.
2/  Other crops include vegetables particularly cabbage and onions.                                                                                              H
3/  No hired labor necessary.
4/  Family size 5.
5I Farcer retains 800 kg of maize, all his potato chats, 120 kg beans and some of his other crops.
6/ Wheat follows potatoes as a catch crop and is planted on the same land after the potatoes are lifted.



NALAWJI
Lilongwe Nor.h-E.ast RDP
Typical Farm Budget (Maize Farmer) 4/
(MK)
Without Project                                  With Project
Income                                         Income
Crop Area    Labor       Gross        per      Crop Area       Labor    Gross         per
Crop                             ha       Mandays    Margin    Nanday           ha         Mandays   Margin   Landay
M'aize - Local                   1.00        100      124.85      1.25                               -              -
Maize - Corposite                 -            -         -         -             0,40          52      71.29       1.37
Maize - hybrid                    -            -         -         -             0.40          58      95.33       1.64
Groundnuts                       0.20         37       25.53      0.69           0.40          78      89.28       1.14
Other Crops                      0.30         15         -         -             0.30          15        -         -          ON
Total farming               1.50        152      150.38                    1.50          203    255.90
Income per Manday 2/                                    0.99                                            1.26
Per Capita Income 3/                                   30.08                                           51.18
Value of Subsistence 4/                               141.10                                          150.00
Net Cashi Income                                        9.23                                          105.90
Variable Costs                                         11.95                                          118.10
I/  Maize and grotnndntuts are improved.
2/  Nn; labor outside that of family required.
3/  Fanily of 5.
4/  F.rr:er retains all his maize and his 'other crops' (sweet potatoes, cassava, beans) in the "without                     w
pI'ojcCt" situation and 1,250 kg of maize and his sweet potatoes, cassava and beans in the with--project
si tua3tiof12
June 18, 1982



MALAWI
Lilongwe North-East RDP
Typical Farm Budget (Tobacco Farmer) 1/
(MO)
Without Project                                  With Project
Income                                         Incor~e
Crop Area    Labor       Gross         per     Crop Area       Labor    Gross         per
Crop                             ha       Mandays    Margin    Manday            ha        Mandays   Margin   Manday
Maize - Local                    1.75        175      218.49       1.25          0.90           95    111.83       1.18
Maize - Composite                              -         -                       0.40           52     71.29       1.37
Maize - Hybrid                   0.20         26       23.47    090             0.40          58      95033       1.64
Groundnuts                       0.20         37       25.53      0.69           0.20          37      25.53       0.69
Tobacco                          0.20         70       23.56      0.34           0.40         148      77.16      0.52
Other Crops                      0.15          8         -         -             0.20          10        -          -        0
Total farming              2.50         316      291.05                    2.50          400    381.14
Total Farm
less Labor Hired  /                        309      287.55                                  386    374.14
Income/Manday 3/                                        0.93                                            0.96
Per Capita Income 4/                                   57.51                                           74.83
Value of Subsistence 5/                               150.00                                          150.00
I;et Cash Income                                      137.55                                          224.14
Variable Costs                                         64.68                                          166.95
1/  Maize and tobacco are improved.                                                                                        E w
2/  Thaere would be 'Labor shortfall of 7 md in January without the project and 14 md with the project; labor    m H
hired at 'K( 0.50/day.
3/  Calculated on basis of net income less hired labor cost divided by family labor.
4/  Family size 5.
5/  Farmer retains 1,250 kg of maize, all his sweet potatoes, beans and vegetables.



MALAWI
Lil_ngwe North-East RDF
Typical Farm Budget (Daisy and Tobacco Farmer) 1/
Without Project                                                               With Project
Income                                                                    Income
Crop Area    Labor    Gross         per                                  Crop Area   Labor       Gross         per
Crop                   ha       Mandays   Mar6in   Manday                       Crop             ha      Mandays    Margin    Manday
Maize - Local                     1.75        175    218.49    1.25             Maize - Composite          0.48        b2       85.55      1.38
-aize - llybrid                  0.20         26      23.47    0.90             Maize - Hybrid             0.48        70      114.88      1.64
Groundnuts                        0.31        58      39.57    0.68             Groundnuts 5/              0.14        26       17.87      0.69
Tobacco                          0.08          28      9.42    0.39             Tobacco                    0.20        74       38.58      0.52
Otner Crops 2/                   0.16           8       -        -              Dairy 6/                   1.20       262       87.60      0.33
Net farming                 2.50        295    290.95                           Net farming          2.50       494      344.48
Income/Manday                                          0.99                     Income/Manday                                    0.70
Per Capita Income 3/                                  58.19                     Per Capita Income                               68.90
Value of Subsistence 4/                              150.00                     Value of Subsistence                           150.00
Net Cash Income                                      140.95                     Net Cash Income                                194.48
Variable Costs                                        58.26                     Variable Costs                                 368.23
(221.00 for dairy)
1/  Dairy is introduced as substitution for the minor crops and some of the maize.  The maize and tobacco are improved.
2/  Sweet Potatoes, Cassava, Pulses, Millet, etc.                                                                                                      m
3/  Family size 5.                                                                                                                                      4
4/  Farmer retains 1,250 kg of maize, his pulses, sweet potatoes and other miscellaneous crops for subsistence.
5/ Farmer does not adopt improved groundnut package.
6/ Two cows fed off 0.8 ha Rhodes grass and 0.4 ha Napier grass.
Jitly 7, 1982



-70 -                                       ANNEX IV
Table 1
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dedza Hills - Economic Farm Input Costs
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990       ---       2002
Maize
20:20:0 (mt)    76.0    190.0    418.0    608.0    760.0    760.0    760.0    760.0              760.0    760.0
Value            27.550   69.445  152.946  225.932  286.520  290.624  294.956  299.630   299.630  299.630
C.A.N (mt)       48.0    120.0    264.0    384.0    480.0    480.0    480.0    480.0             480.0    480.0
Value            15.561   37.356   84.295  124.685  158.448  156.336  163.776  166.992   166.992  166.992
Seed
MM 12 (mt)        4.0      10.0      22.0      32.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0       40.0      40.0
Value (at MK
830/ton)         3.220    8.300   18.260   26.500   33.200   33.200   33.200   33.200    33,200   33.200
U.C.A (mt)         6.0     15.0      33.0      48.0      60.0      60.0      60.0      60.0       60.0      60.0
Value (at MYX
375/ton)         2.200    5.625   12.375   18.000   22.500   22.500   22.500   22.500    22,500   22.500
Diptrex(packet)  8,000   20,000   44,000   64,000   80,000   80,000   80,000   80,000    80,800   80,000
Value (.33/
packet)          2.640    6.600   14.500   21.100   26.400   26.400   26.400   26.400    26.400   26.400
Sub-Total    51.321  127.325  282.376  416.277  527.068  529.060  540.832  548.722   548.722  548.722
Beans
Seed (mt)         4.0      10.0      22.0      32.0      40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0       40.0      40.0
Value (at 320/
Mt)              1.280    3.200    7.040   10.240   12.800   12.800   12.800   12.800    12.800   12.800
Groundnuts
Seed (mt)         1.76      3.52      5.28      7.06      8.82    10.58    10.58    10.58         10.58    10.58
Value (at 600/
mt)              1.056    2.112    3.168    4.236    5.292    6.348    6.348    6.348             6.348    6.348
Wheat
20:20:0 (int)     3.0       6.0       9.0      12.0      15.0      18.0      21.0      21.0       21.0      21.0
Value              1.087    2.193    3.293    4.459    5.655    6.883    8.150    8.279            8.279    8.279
C.A.N (at)         1.0      2.0       3.0       4.0       5.0       6.0       7.0       7.0        7.0       7.,0
Value               .324      .622      .958    1.299    1.651    1.954    2.388    2.435          2.435    2.435
Seed (mt)         0.64       1.28     1.92      2.56      3.2       3.84      3.84      3.84       3.84      3.84
Value (0K400/
ton)             0.256    0.512    0.768    1.024    1.280    1.536    1.536    1.536             1.536    1.536
Sub-Total      2.801    3.327    5.019    6.782    8.586   10.373   12.074   12.250            12.250   12.250
Potatoes
20:20:0 (mt)      3.75      7.50    11.25    15.0        18.75    18.75    18.75    18.75         18.75    18.75
Value              1.359    2.741    4.116    5.574    7.068    7.170    7.276    7.392            7.392    7,392
Seed (MK167/ha)  3.300    6.600    9.900   13.200   16.500   16.500   16.500   16.500    16.500   16.500
Sub-Total      4.659    9.341   10.016   18.774   23.568   23.670   23.670   23.670    23.670   23.670
Labor value      10.100   23.700   48.200   69.000   86.300   86.300   86.000   86.000    86.000   86.000
Total On-Farm
Input Costs:  71.217  169.005  355.819  515.069  663.614  668.551  681.724  689.790   689.790  689.790
August 18, 1982



MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dedza Hills - Economic Crop Benefits
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991            1992    1993
Maize (value
'000 MK)        0       41.5   169.3   398.8   638.8   867.2   988.2 1,047.6 1,058.3 1,070.1 1,081.4
Groundnuts        0        2.4      6.7    10.5    14.4    18.4    18.6         18.7    18.7      18.7     18.7
Wheat              0       2.8      6.8    10.7    14.8    18.8    19.0    19.2          19.2     19.2    19.2
Potatoes          0       17.3    34.6    51,9    69.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2
Beans             0         1.2     4.2    10.2    17.7    24.9    28.8    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Less cassava 1/  0         1.2      2.4      3.6      4.8      6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1
Total Incremental
Value           0       64.0   219.1   478.5   750.1 1,009.4 1,134.7 1,195.6 1,207.2 1,218.7 1,230.3
1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001           2002
Maize (value
'000 MK)          1,092.9 1,104.5 1,116.0 1,127.5 1,139.1 1,144.8 1,150.6 1,156.4 1,162.2
Groundnuts             18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7    18.7          18.7    18.7      18.7
Wheat                  19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2
Potatoes               86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2    86.2
Beans                  30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Less cassava 1/         6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1     6.1      6.1       6.1      6.1
Total Incremental
Value            1,241.8 1,253.3 1,264.9 1,276.4 1,288.0 1,293.7 1,299.5 1,305.3 1,311.1
1/ Replaced by incremental groundnuts,



MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dedza Hills - Economic Costs for Crop Coajonent
(Mk '000)
1990/
1983      1984        1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       2002
Extension 1/          189.2      200.8      101.1       40.2       37.0       37.0        0           0
Training 1/            64.6       26.6       19.1       19.1       20.4       19.1        0           0
Land Husbandry 2/       0        101.5       24.6       13.2       13.8       13.8       13.8        13.8
Horticulture 3/         6.6        2.5        1.7        2.5        1.7        1.7        0          0
Credit 4/              27.5       38.1        7.4        8.6        7.4        7.4        7.4         7.4
Marketing 5/           93.7       95.4        3.5        3.5        3.5        3.5        3.5        3.5
Administration 1/   184.8        163.4       63.5       62.0       60.2       60.2       60.2       60,2
On-farm Costs          71.2      169.0      355.8      515.1      663.6      668.6      681,7      689.8         -
Total Incremental
Economic Costs    637.6       797.3       576.7      664.2     807.6       811.3      766.6      774.7
1/  50% of these investment and opertring costs are allocated to the crop component.
2/  70% of these investiwat and operating costs are allocated to the crop component.
3/  25% of these investment and operating costs are allocated to the crop component.
4/  90% of these investment and operating costs are allocated to the crop component.
5/ 100% of these investment and operating costs are allocated to the crop component.
August 18, 1982
F-r 



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Table 4
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJL ZT
Dedza Hills - Economic Benefits from Livestock Component
1990/
1983    1984    1985    1986       1987      1988      1989      2002
Incremental value
of increased
sales and
carcass weight
('000 MK)              0       26.0    40.0    47.6       42.9      43.4     42.0      40.3
Stallfeeders
Incremental number
of animals            50      100      150     200       250       250       250      250
Incremental farm-
gate value MK/
animal                85.7    85.7    85.7    85.7        85.7      85.7      85.7     85.7
Total Value
('000 MK)              4.2      8.6    12.9    17.1       21.4      21.4     21.4      21.4
Grand Total
('000 MK)              4.2    34.6    52.9    64.7        64.3      64.8     63.4      61.7
August 20, 1982



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Table 5
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dedza Hills - Economic Costs for Livestock/Veterinary and Feeders
(MK '000)
1990l/
1983      1984    1985    1986        1987     1988      1989    2002
Veterinary
Services 1/           36.7       19.9    22.7    22.0       22.0      22.0      22.0    22.0
Extension 2/             18.9      20.1    10.1       4.0       3.7      3.7       0        0
Training 2/               6.5       2.7      1.9      1.9       2.0      1.9       0        0
Credit 3/                 3.1       4.2      0.8      1.0       0.8      0.8       0.8      0.8
Administration 2/        18.5       16.3     6.3      6.2       6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0
On-farm Costs             2.3       4.5      6.8      9.0      11.3     11.3      11.3    11.3
Total Incremental
Economic Costs        86.0       67.7    48.6    44.1       45.8      45.7      40.1    40.1
1/  100% of these costs are allocated to the livestock component.
2/ 5% of these costs are allocated to the livestock component.
3/ 10% of these costs are allocated to the livestock component.
August 18, 1982



- 75 -                                 ANNEX IV
Table 6
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lilongwe Northeast - Economic Farm Input Costs
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990/
2002
Maize
Fertilizer
20:20:0 (Q mt)  52.8    158.4    321.6    427.2    523.2    523.2    523.2    523.2
Value ('OOOMK)  19.140   57.9    117.673  158.747  197.246  200.071  203.053  206.272
C.A.N (Q mt)    39.0       16.9    237.3    315.2    386.0    386.0    386.0    386.0
Value            12.644   36.390   75.769  102.345  127.418  125.720  131.703  134.289
Seed
MH 12 (mt)        6.275   18.825   38.200   50.750   62.150   62.150   62.150   62.150
Value (at MK
800/ton)         5.208   15.625   31.706   42.123   51.584   51.584   51.854   51.854
Diptrex
(packets)        5,280   15,840   32,160   42,720   52,320   52,320   52,320   52,320
Value (at .33/
packet)         1,742    5,227   10,612   14,097   17,265   17,265   17,265   17,265
Sub-Total    38.856  115.508  236.511  318.307  394.733  395.860  404.825  410.630
Groundnuts
Seed (mt)         7.200   14.400   21.600   28.800   36.000   36.000   36.000   36.000
Value (MK600/
ton)             4.320    8.640   12.960   17.280   21.600   21.600   21.600   21.600
Decanal (MK1.05/
ha)              1.155    2.310    3.465    4.620    5.775    5.775    5.775    5.775
Sub-Total      5.475   10.950   16.425   21.900   27.375   27.375   27.375   27.375
Tobacco
20:20:0 (mt)    20.0       40.0      60.0      80.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Value             7.250   14.620   21.954   29.728   37.700   38.240   38.810   39.425
C.A.N (mt)        8.0      16.0      24.0      32.0     40.0      40.0      40.0      40.0
Value             2.594    4.980    7.663   10.390   13.204   13.028   13.648   13.916
Nursery chemical
(MK15/h)         1.200    2.400    3.600    4.800    6.000    6.000    6.000    6.000
Sub-Total    11.044   22.000   33.217   44.918   56.904   57.268   58.458   59.341
Labor (mandays) 15.955   44.915   88.050  117.010  143.600  134.600  143.600  143.600
Value (MK.50/
manday)          7.978   22.458   44.505   71.800   71.800   71.800   71.800   71.800
Total Incremental
Farm Input    63.353  170.916  330.658  456.925  550.812  552.303  562.450  569.146
August 18, 1982



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Table 7
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lilongwe Northeast - Economic Crop Benefits
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987    1988          1989    1990    1991    1992
Maize             0      37.1  192.2  394.7  589.6   771.8    838.8   871.1   878.6   883.7
Groundnuts         0      4.1   16.3   33.7   51.6    69.8         83.3    83.7    83.7    83.7
Tobacco            0     82.6  177.1  268.8  357.6   440.7    440.1   428.9   428.9   428.9
Total
Benefit          0    123.8  385.6  697.2  998.8 1,282.3  1,362.2 1,383.7 1,391.2 1,396.4
1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Maize        888.7   893.7   898.7   903.7   908.7   913.8   918.8   923.8   926.3   928.8
Groundnuts   83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7    83.7
Tobacco      428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9   428.9
Total
Benefit  1,401.3 1,406.3 1,411.3 1,416.3 1,421.3 1,426.4 1,431.4 1,436.4 1,438.9 1,441.4
August 18, 1982



7 77 -
ANNEX IV
Table 8
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lilongwe Northeast - Economic Costs for Crop Component
(MK '000)
1990/
1983    1984    1985       1986     1987      1988      1989    2002
Extension I/            293.8   244.7    93.2       56.2      52.3     52.3       0        0
Training 1/              72.9    33.3    26.8       27.5      26.9     26.9       0        0
Land Husbandry 2/        85.3    77.8    22.0       22.9      22.0     22.0      22.0    22.0
Credit 3/                27.8    38.6      7.8       9.0       7.8      7.8       7.8      7.8
Marketing 4/             93.7    95.4      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5
Administration 1/       263.6   149.7    64.1       63.8      61.0     61.0      61.0    61.0
On-farm Costs           63.4   170.9   330.6    456.9    550.8    552.3    562.4   569.1
Total Incremental
Economic Costs       900.6   810.4   548.0    639.8    724.3    725.8    656.7   663.4
1/  60% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
2/  70% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
3/  90% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
4/ 100% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
August 18, 1982



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Table g
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lilongwe Northeast - Economic Costs for Crop Component
(MK '000)
1990/
1983    1984    1985       1986      1987     1988      1989    2002
Extension 1/            293.8   244.7    93.2       56.2      52.3     52.3       0        0
Training 1/              72.9    33.3    26.8       27.5      26.9     26.9       0        0
Land Husbandry 2/        85.3    77.8    22.0       22.9      22.0     22.0      22.0    22,0
Credit 3/                27.8    38.6      7.8       9.0       7.8      7.8       7.8      7,8
Marketing 4/             93.7    95.4      3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5      3,5
Administration 1/       263.6   149.7    64.1       63.8      61.0     61.0      61.0    61.0
On-farm Costs            63.4   170.9   330.6    456.9    550.8    552.3    562.4   569,1
Total Incremental
Economic Costs       900.6   810.4   548.0    639.8    724.3    725.8    656.7   663,4
1/  60% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
2/  70% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
/  90% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
4/ 100% of these costs are allocated to the crop component.
August 18, 1982



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
Table 10
MALAWI
NRDP IV - AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lilongwe Northeast - Economic Costs for Livestock/Veterinary and Stallfeeders
(MK '000)
1990/
1983    1984    1985       1986      1987      1988      1989      2002
Veterinary
Services 1/           179.2   183.6    74.0        68.7      62.2      62.2      62.2      62.2
Extension 2/             24.5    20.4       7.8       4.7       4.4       4.4       0         0
Training 27               6.1      2.8      2.2       2.3       2.2       2.2       0         0
Credit 3/                 3.1      4.3      0.9       1.0       0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9
Administration 2/        22.0    12.5       5.3       5.3       5.1       5.1       5.1       5.1
On-farm Costs            32.5    64.8    97.3    129.7    162.2    162.2    162.2    162.2
Total Incremental
Economic Costs        267.4   288.4   187.5    211.7    237.0    237.0    230.4    230.4
1/  100% of these costs are allocated to the livestock component.
2/ 5% of these costs are allocated to the livestock component.
3/ 10% of these costs are allocated to the livestock component.
August 18, 1982






(BR D 16547
3Du , 0    '<1.0/MALAWI
(     .rt--rx (. / NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'S,    9   ~~~~~ > C ~~INRDP IVI                                                            
/------<<<  !| a  \,,1ILONGWE NORlTH EAST/DEDZA HILLS PROJECT
3: /C, / '                                                                         .                            LILONGWE NGLTH EAST AND DEDZA HILLS        0-
)   - -  t'      \'               ?  <                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRDJECT AREA INROP 19)
1$'                                                             SALVIJAS L % D AR   SF AGRIC LLTUhAL CEVELPMENT DIV SI3NS
K                                "A7 ,.  0w'   i   7   cM  ADD HEADDUARTERS
DKADQN9GrAAR '3D/TI                   O Qiihrlrmbei    X                  EDISTINGMAJORAGRIGULTUREPRSsECTAREAS
'3 *    >NXDv/LnsIDTcnaAO FWR1A            "                         IDA FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
'//  -1                                 CI/  g   !   tOTHLE AGENCIES FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
'/                 0 i   SA QMlewe  \                    MAIN SCADS
'3 If                                F t H . r   k   / 2  i   I    I  I RAIl IAYS
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
|7'  1-.5  KASIATJ/                - _       INTERNATIONAL BOJINDARIES
/  F _e5 -rpnyg   \arweCe'                      4..    PORTS
97~~~~~~~~~~ lAS/TVX,    j
/A~~
Z  B  1 A~~~~~~~~~~~~        LKCOMA
)VZS                              /   CIi   _..4-/3A    
_ I9S'AND                                                               2
--                       - t                                  rr-IC/ VS2
. --  '_HI/UMLA L
, /                                                     <          \,,XB .'i, '| 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eg 7~   C;                   \
<1 ,_             '  ',            C OD\A                  M  O  Z  A  M    B  I Q  U  E
,'Dc"'eoter DDD5,Sr,','~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~E , 
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/C                                       Go eke -0 wo Ir3w'? jhtet
DK                         , 4AjTARE  ober
.,,c               ~(                                                     - !/     ! ,.AO.            V K
hr>Xe~~~~~~~~~~ 11 L; ! ,  XaW \0 
h,                                              -                                                        ''1/'..... '..'04...  (-o/AUl '''*''2:-
"'^/u  '~        I                                                           Th .  ..
ZMAASWF   dd.7f <n;1                   t       .                     'KNADS  ']; <,N '  2 t _rl   D .  _o f'I,VG
toI .                IKIO
VAIl'                 I Z   AAr/S 0    20 I   Q E               i4l l60
5oDe /\/%/                                               =tEAATYErL  mb  '0<  if,-
________~~ ______$___                                        ______                         L  w 'XiALMeV 
,   \Z!MFARWFx  -f /  ' )F;              fr~C  -C    DC       FC       'AD    g                                                           if'S 
[~~~~~~~~~ ~                         CD  45    5    AS  IS   1AV  14   SA               ''                            I  '4  0   C 1U t \?f 
r. ,:; ---I  MI                    L   -  *__ 






IBRD 16548
33'4   /6 #Kasungv                                       3400'                                                AUGUST 1982
MA L AW I
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT TV (NRDP TV)
LILONGWE NORTH EAST SUB-PROJECT AREA
Chonde', >solim
-1345'                                                                                                                                                      4 1'-
-----------                                                               .-'--'J      
7~~~~~D~d
1   ',; \ oulr \y ditibto   house
Marketi Dzundg  centersoChimbalanga,
14-NatLion  wcapital'
Ma.n roads _                                          ,.                                                 - ~--   ./
Mino roads                                                                                               f       S 
Swamps~ ~~~~~~~~~apht
SuT-project area boundary                             m   h   be per  by t            ANGOLA                         .
EnPAt       boundaries                            W     B      s   e        
Project headquarters                                                 r       of --MBIA
EPA  centers                                         d     n       u   a  the
Dip tanks                                                                                                                   r  0  ez  Soed
-14015'              Slaughter slabs                            /\Kilometers O                                                 S         10        15    14-15'-
Poultry distribution houses                                s      o t  m
WlaaIts affiliates, any                    1.V i' Miles
Marketing centers-7
Nation  copital                               --                   l statu o
Main roads                                                                                                                     34' 15'
Minor roads                                                       e                  NAIBE                    ,           /
Rivers                                                                                                              TANZANIA
Swamps                               ,                           ~<.0                                                 p[1   c: ,
Internationa l boundaries            Wtvorld Bank's staff exclusively for            AN GOLA   J            ~ \-fit]    iong.
1                                        "4           t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he convenience of the readers of  rZAM'BIA   iL!nw 
\                                       Jl           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~boundaries shown on this m7ap                         J'b
|do not imply, on the part of the                       ./ 4 ,
j udgment on tnhde/ leal sitiatus' of            T    v        ZIMBABWE I+            -  
|any territory or any endorsement        NAAMIBIAj                       ,         , 
1430'                                                                 or acceptance of such boundarier4o 30,       BOTSWANAj
33045'                                                  34-0o0'                       TWN






I B RD 1 S Z
MALAWI  4W30               UGUS; 
ZAIRE  TSANZAN IA                         NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT
)      ') p)Z~vass jPROJECi V(NRDPW)
ANGOLA                                                 DE DZA HILLS SUB-PROJ3CTAREA
F_                              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~3045 1'5
ZAMBIA    \S; ,Iongwe
,4~7: .                          I }   Ge /   ~   ~   -~7~Sub-project area boundalry
K        k            ;fl 9>; \      I ---EPA boundaries
INDIAN I                           Project headquarters
|NAMIBIA                               O ZIMBABWEZ  0 CEAN I               EPA centers
IBoTSWANA                                                           Marketing centers
Slaughter slabs
f  Th,s map has been prepared by the  3405                                  Poultry distribution houses
World Bank's staff excluslvely for        .      
the convenience of the readers of        -
the report to which it is attached.            -
The denominations used and the                                          Main roads
boundaries shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of the                                        Minor roads
World Bank and its affiliates, any
judgment on the legal status of                              -      '    Rivers
any territory or any endorsement                              i         Railwa
or acceptance of such boundaries  -)-InIeralilway
g   )     /                           -*-  ~~~~~~~~International boundaries
14000            &,                                       I                 io Ch,poka
/\~                                      L f)  S  (  . ~   (\   \  AKE
-Myani                                                       MAlAAW!
Nyasa)
0           .                       o          '?W                ''                         nzA
inthpe     amphua
-Kanyama'
K ileso 0            5              10
MOZAMB IQUE                          \ToNcheu



