Report No. PID8658
Project Name                     China-Sustainable Forestry Development (@)
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Forestry; Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       CNPE64729
Supplemental Project             CNPE60029
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address STATE FOREST ADMINISTRATION (SFA)
18 East Street, Hepingli
Beijing, China 100714
Contact Person: Mr. Song Shikui, Director,
World Bank Loan Project
Management Center
Tel: 86-10-6422-9944 (Ext. 3216)
Fax: 86-10-6421-7796
Email: pmcsfa@cenpok.net
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                April 21, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 8-28, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
OverviewThe Sustainable Forestry Development Project aims to protect some
of China's most important remaining natural forests, associated
biodiversity, and vital watersheds and reduce the risk of downstream
flooding, while ensuring a supply of wood to meet China's growing demand,
in a way that takes pressure off forests elsewhere in Asia. It will also
help local communities affected by the national logging ban to maintain or
improve their standard of living by switching to other, more
environmentally friendly, sources of income. By emphasizing
participatory, community driven, and bottom-up approaches to forest
resources planning and management, the project involves local governments
and communities early in forest resource assessment and management plan
development leading to greater ownership by local governments and
communities, better adherence to management prescriptions and resource use
zoning, and better targeted poverty alleviation programs to reduce the
reliance on unsustainable forest exploitation. By incorporating community
development projects which will be linked to long-term and sustainable
management of forestry resources a strong link between conservation and
sustainable income generation and economic development will be built.
Under the project, 1.2 million ha of natural forests will be protected and
managed sustainably, thus reducing soil and water erosion and flooding,
preserving globally important biodiversity, and reducing greenhouse gas
emissions through carbon sequestration. Also, 170,000 ha of plantations
will be planted to produce a variety of forest products, including
approximately 13.3 million cubic meters of commercial timber, 2.73 billion



kg of bamboo, and fruit, nut, and miscellaneous forest production,
amounting to millions of yuan in income generation. The total number of
beneficiaries is estimated at 687,500266,100 households or approximately
2.71 million individuals, with many of the beneficiary groups including a
large share of women and ethnic minorities. Of the 55 recognized ethnic
minority groups in China, a total of 18 (Li, Tibetan, Qiang, Tujia, Miao,
She, Dong, Dulong, Hui, Mongols, Manchus, Yao, Bai, Lisu, Nu, Yi, Pumi and
Naxi) reside in SFDP project counties and sites.Country and Sector
BackgroundThe forestry sector plays a critical role not only in protecting
biodiversity and watersheds but also in the Chinese economy, providing 40
percent of rural household energy, almost all of the lumber and panel
products for the large construction sector, and raw material for the large
domestic pulp and paper industry. The resource base is small.     Forest
cover amounts to only 0.11 hectares per capita which is significantly
below the world average of 0.77 hectares per capita. Forest land is
divided into two categories: natural forests (about 87 million hectares),
which are located in isolated areas in the northeast and southwest and
account for 92 percent of standing wood volume; and plantations (about 34
million hectares), which account for only 8 percent of standing volume,
since most are newly established. China is the third largest consumer of
timber in the world and faces a widening imbalance between supply and
demand for wood products. The present consumption level (about 300
million cubic meters of standing stock) exceeds the annual growth of the
forests. This deficit is being made up by imports and over-cutting, which
contributes , contributing substantially to the loss of 500,00 hectares of
natural forest area per year. This situation has been allowed to persist
because logging enterprises do not bear the full cost of over-harvesting,
are not efficiently regulated, and lack knowledge of sustainable natural
forest management. Although the Government of China (GOC) has taken steps
to address the widening wood deficit by investing in plantations, it has
not tackled the fundamental imbalances in the sector, until recently, when
the devastating flood that occurred in the Yangtze Basin and northeast
China during the summer of 1998. Triggered by the extensive flooding, GOC
took the following bold actions.First, the State Council issued an
emergency circular in August 1998 announcing the following immediate
policy changes: ban on logging in natural forests; no opening up of new
lands at the expense of forests; freezing of all construction projects on
forest land for one year; and a new requirement for direct cabinet
approval for any occupation of forest land. Supplemental regulations have
been issued by the provinces that provide detailed guidelines for
implementation at the local level. Second, The Government launched an
ambitious new investment program (Natural Forest Protection Program -
NFPP) to improve natural forest management, covering approximately 95
million hectares of state-owned forests in 17 provinces. NFPP supports
increased protection of natural forests, establishment of timber
plantations, and the transfer of state loggers to more environmentally
sustainable employment. The plan is being implemented in two phases
(1998-2000 and 2001-2010), at a total cost of 12 billion yuan, financed in
part by budgetary allocations and subsidized loans from central and local
governments. Third, the Government enacted additional legislation, such
as a new land use law in September 1998, to promote more efficient use of
land and increased reforestation. Fourth, GOC launched another program in
1999 to convert approximately 3.6 million ha of steep lands (over 25
percent slope) in the upper reaches of the Yangtze and Yellow rivers from
agriculture back to forest (and grasslands). The program was piloted in
-2 -



1999-2000 in 17 provinces and will be implemented from 2001 to
2010.Effective implementation of this new investment program is the
biggest challenge facing the forest sector. Successful implementation will
require (a) developing comprehensive integrated management plans for
forest resources, particularly for natural forests, that maximize economic
and environmental benefits for local communities; (b) improving the
efficiency of the wood processing sector through continued reform of the
policy framework for state-owned enterprises; (c) expanding forestry
resources to support continued growth of construction and agro-processing
sectors, with an emphasis on productivity gains through improvements in
silvicultural technologies, particularly planting stock development and
silvicultural management; and (d) developing more participatory approaches
for the design and implementation of natural forest management and
afforestation programs to strengthen incentives for sustainable resource
management by local communities.
2. Objectives
The project objective is to ensure that viable, participatory, and
locally-managed systems for conservation, management, and sustainable use
of forest resources and associated biodiversity are developed and adopted
in project sites to reduce unsustainable exploitation of forest resources
and to protect the natural environment. These practices developed and
applied for the protection and sustainable management of natural forest
resources in pilot areas in China would provide models for wider
replication under the government's Natural Forest Protection Program
(NFPP). The global environmental objective is to foster improved
conservation and sustainable management of biodiversity in remaining
natural forest areas by ensuring in situ protection of threatened and
globally important forest habitats and rare and endemic species.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank involvement in the project and NFPP willould provide the following
contributions:n The project will introduce and disseminate the latest
scientific management approaches (i.e. international best practices) in
natural forest planning and management, management of nature reserves,
community participation in co-management, and monitoring and evaluation.
Previous Bank projects have proven to be very effective vehicles to
transfer technology and knowledge.fn The NFPP's main focus is to reform on
reforming state forest enterprises and redeploy redundant workers. The
project seeks to redress the potential loss of income to rural forest
communities which the NFPP has not been able to fully address. There are
a number of small-scale pilot initiatives supported by bilateral donors
and NGOs (especially GTZ, Ford Foundation, WWF, The Bridge Fund) from
which lessons for larger scale replication can be learned, particularly
with regard to participatory community planning and development. The Bank
is in a good position to facilitate this process, which will involve not
only project initiatives but also the resolution of key policy issues that
are systemic in nature.fn The Bank has been involved in biodiversity
conservation in China since the initiation of the Biodiversity Action Plan
and assisted China with the preparation and implementation of the first
GEF-supported biodiversity project - Nature Reserves Management Project
(NRMP). Through this and other activities, the Bank has gained a
comprehensive understanding of and experiences on the key biodiversity
conservation issues facing China. The Bank can facilitate integration of
experiences and results into its policy dialogue on environment and
- 3 -



development.n The project will require multiple sources of financing. The
Bank's experience in coordinating multiple donors in financing a range of
sub-projects is an area of distinct comparative advantage.
4. Description
The project will finance, over a period of six years, the following main
components and activities. (a) Natural Forest Management Component will
would support the development and dissemination of new sustainable
management techniques in natural forest areas protected under the
Government's NFPP and community development and livelihood enhancement
activities targeting selected rural communities. The latter targets the
most forest dependent rural communities in the project areas who would
potentially be most affected by the NFPP restrictions. The EU is expected
to finance this component in its entirety.The component includes the
following subcomponents and key activities: (i) natural forest management
including development of forest management plans through resource
assessment, zoning, and forest classification; yield regulation and
control; policy studies relating to opportunities for forest ecological
benefit compensation systems, marketing, and market intelligence systems;
implementation of forest management plan through demonstrations, NTFP
domestication, establishment of yield plots to model growth and yield and
assessment of biodiversity change; and monitoring and evaluation; (ii)
forest management training to employees and vocational training to
laid-off workers of State Forest Enterprises in the project areas; (iii)
community development activities including small household loans,
household training, small village infrastructure based on village
development plans developed by the project communities and associated
technical studies (e.g., rural energy, animal grazing, and so on;);
and(iv) training directed at forest administration staff, and
dissemination beyond the project area using mass media and in-country
workshops. (b) Protected Areas Management Component (Global Component)
willould support conservation and improved management of biodiversity of
global importance in selected, high priority nature reserves in natural
forest areas. It will be implemented in the three key provinces plus four
adjacent provinces to enhance trans-boundary biodiversity protection and
enhance exchanges between these provinces. The Global Environment
Facility is expected to finance this component in its entirety.     The
subcomponents and key activities include: (i) participatory nature
reserves planning and management including management plan development,
strengthening of field-level management and targeted applied research;
(ii) community-based nature conservation including co-management
activities that link biodiversity conservation with sustainable income
generation, wildlife management to reduce damage to local community
livelihoods, community conservation education and awareness, and delivery
of sustainable alternatives and enhancement of community skills; and(iii)
training and capacity building to strengthen institutions responsible for
biodiversity conservation and management at the provincial and nature
reserve levels; and; and (iv.) project management, monitoring and
evaluation including key policy studies. (c) Plantation Establishment
Component will help increase the production of wood to meet the growing
gap between domestic supply and demand, generate new employment and income
for forestry farms and rural households and improve environmental
management. It will be implemented in the three key provinces plus eight
more and include the following sub-components and key activities: (i)
establishment of commercial wood plantations for solid wood, reconstituted
- 4 -



panels, and pulp; (ii) establishment of economic forest crops, including
fruit, nut and medicinal trees, bamboo, and rattan; (iii) pre-commercial
thinning of existing plantations to demonstrate increase productivity and
financial gains from proper thinning and tending; and (iv) provision of
related technical support services such as planting stock development and
nursery management, training and extension, small-scale rural
infrastructure required for afforestation and post-harvest treatment and
marketing of horticultural crops and monitoring and evaluation including
environmental and social parameters.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       242.34
Co-financing is being sought for two of the three components -Protected
Areas Management and Natural Forest Management. The GEF has approved
inclusion of the Protected Areas Management component into the March 2001
GEF, and it is anticipated that co-financing of the Natural Forest
Management component by EuropeAid will be confirmed in the near future.
GEF financing of the Protected Areas Management component would be
implemented by the World Bank. EuropeAid would co-finance the Natural
Forest Management component in parallel and would be responsible for
processing, management and supervision of its own technical assistance
package.
6. Implementation
Project Management. Project management will build upon the successful
implementation structure developed under earlier Bank forestry projects in
China. Leading Groups at the central, provincial, and county levels
willould be established to provide general policies and guidelines;,
review work programs;, and ensure coordination, linkages, and sharing of
experiences between the three components. Project entities at the
national-, provincial-, county-, and nature-reserve levels will be
responsible for day-to-day implementation, supervision, and
monitoring.National Level. The Leading Group at the national-level would
be chaired by the Administrator of the State Forestry Administration (SFA)
with membership of the Project Management Center (PMC), Natural Forest
Protection Center (NFPC), Department of Wildlife and Plant Protection
(DWPP), Department of Planning and Finance, and other relevant departments
in SFA. Within SFA, NFPC will be responsible for overseeing the Natural
Forest Management component, since it is directly responsible for
implementation of the NFPP. PMC will be responsible for the Plantations
Establishment component, based on its successful implementation track
record of three previous World Bank-financed plantation projects.
Management of the Protected Areas Management component will be by a
central Project Office (PO). The PO will work closely with the Division
of Nature Resources (DNR) in the DWPP and will be staffed with appropriate
technical expertise in required fields, including a full-time Protected
Area Management Officer, a full-time Community-Based Conservation Officer,
and a full-time Nature Reserve Training Coordinator who will also be
responsible for coordinating the M&E.Provincial Level. Overall
implementation would be overseen by the provincial Leading Group, chaired
by the Director of the Provincial Forestry Department (PFD), and would be
carried out by existing organizations under the PFD to ensure
institutionalization of project activities. The Natural Forest Protection
- 5 -



Office (NFPO), the PMO and the Office of Wildlife and Plant Protection
(OWPP) would be responsible for the NFM, PE, and PAM components,
respectively.Local Level. For NFM component, 6 county PMOs and thirteen
township working groups will be establish to oversee implementation. For
PAM component, each nature reserve would create a Project Management Group
(PMG), directly under the nature reserve director. The PMG would be
responsible for supervision of all aspects of project activities in the
reserve. For PE component, county PMOs in the County Forestry Bureaus
would manage the work and provide technical support, while individual
households, goups of households, share-holding forest farms, village or
township collective forest farms and state forest farms will carry out the
plantation activities.Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: Monitoring
will be done at three levels - delivery of inputs by the project
activities, outputs including the use of project goods/services by
beneficiaries, and the extent to which project objectives have been
achieved (outcome/impact). During implementation, project performance,
including the achievement of project outputs and progress toward the
attainment of development objectives, will be monitored through the use of
semi-annual progress reports prepared by the PMC and PO.Financial
Management and Auditing Requirements: An assessment of the adequacy of
the project financial management system was conducted at pre-appraisal and
concluded that this project meets minimum Bank financial management
requirements. All previous forestry projects have been in full compliance
with audit and accounting covenants. The project entities will produce
project financial management reports in line with the format and content
agreed to between the Bank and China. In addition, traditional
disbursement methods would will be used as opposed to the PMR-based
disbursement systems. As with other Bank Group-financed projects in
China, the Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of China National Audit Office
(CNAO) will have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the
project. Audits of the financial statements of implementing agencies and
of the Special Accounts will be submitted to the Bank within six months
after the end of the financial year. Supervision and Reporting
Arrangements: The project will be supervised through Bank missions
scheduled for twice a year consisting of both Field Office and
Headquarters staff. A project launch workshop will be arranged soon after
Board approval which will focus on (a) project concept and objectives; (b)
project management activities including procurement, financial management,
implementation arrangements; and (c) project environmental protection
guidelines and resettlement policy framework. A joint mid-term review will
be undertaken with the EU. Prior to that, a mid-term report will be
prepared by the PMC with inputs from NFPC and PO summarizing the results
of monitoring and evaluation, identifying problems encountered during
implementation, revising project costs, and discussing measures to
complete the Project as scheduled. In addition, an implementation
completion report , reviewing the planned objectives and achievements of
the project, including costs and benefits derived and performance and
contribution of all parties associated with project execution, will be
prepared by the PMC and submitted to the Bank within six months of the
closing date.
7. Sustainability
Experience from earlier Bank involvement in Chinese forestry strongly
supports the expectation of sustainable impact. Forest resources
established under earlier projects have demonstrated good technical
- 6 -



performance in terms of growth rates, survival, preliminary economic
returns, and environmental impact. Similarly, the ongoing GEF-NRMP is
demonstrating good outcomes in terms of not only raising the quality of
staff and management but also institutionalizing project activities into
the SFA system. Institutional sustainability will be addressed through a
comprehensive program of technical assistance, training, and study tours
to strengthen existing capacity and ensure development of long-term
management skills in project management units, extension institutions, and
beneficiaries. In addition, the project is relying on existing
administrative and organizational structures especially at the local
levels to implement activities. Financial sustainability will be
addressed through a cost recovery program for the PE component and through
self-managed community development funds for the NFM and PAM components.
These funds will be designed during the first year of implementation and
will build on the experiences of micro-financing/revolving fund schemes.
Demanding cost sharing arrangements have proven to be an effective way of
ensuring adherence to high operational standards and have resulted in high
levels of cost recovery. Furthermore, partnerships with NGOs and other
donors for PAM component at the reserve-level will ensure continuation of
incremental field activities beyond the life of the project. Staff and
routine operating expenses are already provided by the Government.
Environmental sustainability will be addressed through the introduction of
environmentally sound forest management (including co-management) plans
and detailed environmental protection and monitoring guidelines for the
Plantation Establishment component. Social and cultural sustainability at
the village level will be adddressed by ensuring representation of all
groups including ethnic minorities and women and, in the Tibetan areas,
the involvement of monks, in developing the community plans.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lessons are summarized below, which come from project work,
including the 1998 QAG/AGR review of the forest portfolio and GEF
supported projects in the Bank; analytic and advisory activities,
including the 1999 draft China Case Study for the OED Review of the 1991
Forest Policy and Its Implementation, the 1999 Strategic Framework for
Natural Resource Management in East Asia, and the 1994 ENV/AGR review of
implementation of the Bank's forestry policy; and the Bank's knowledge
management system, including the 1998 workshop on sustaining tropical
forests; and donor/NGO consultations, including the background documents
for the WWF-World Bank Alliance.Key issues for effective natural forest
management:I Forestry cannot be considered in isolation from other land
uses and must be fully integrated into land use planning;I Successful
management is only possible with a defined and enforced permanent forest
area;I Accurate inventory of multiple forest resources are needed to guide
forest planning;I Management objectives need to be tailored to the
potential of specific sites and the demands of local communities; and
linkages between conservation and development should be explicit;I The
interests of all stakeholders must be taken into account in decisions on
forest management;I All management options for forests -- even total
protection -- incur financial and economic costs; consequently, the
options selected must have long-term financial and economic
sustainability;I Commercial timber plantations and trees in farming
systems must play a role in securing sustainable management of natural
forests and need to be planned and monitored to appropriate standards;
andI Institutions and agencies charged with forest management must raise
-7 -



technical standards and provide structures that are conducive to the
outputs sought.Key recommendations for Bank-financed natural forest
management projects:i Support modernization and implementation of more
appropriate legislation, regulation, and resource rights;I Support
alternative resource control systems, such as deconcentration,
decentralization, and co-management with government agencies, local
communities, the private sector, NGOs, and others;I Closely coordinate
technical training with the timing and needs of institutional change and
development for locally responsible resource management agencies;i Give
priority to effective policy analysis and development, since policy and
market failures have been more serious than technical problems of forest
management, silviculture, and conservation; I Support investments in
boundary demarcation, resource assessment and inventories and growth and
yield studies; and, I Strengthen systems for monitoring resource
management and audit of institutional performance.Key recommendations for
the China forestry program:I Mobilize concessional cofinancing to soften
IBRD terms, as IBRD funding alone may be too costly for poor households
and lead to their exclusion from project activities;I Strengthen data
collection and monitoring and evaluation (particularly of socio-economic
factors) at project, provincial, and national levels, as it is currently
difficult to evaluate the impact of project loans, management
innnovations, and forest policies on overall sector performance and Bank
projects;I Deepen policy dialogue and support sectoral reforms,
particularly in the areas of SOE restructuring, private sector
development, and land tenure, and resource taxation; I Continue to support
commercial plantation development, which will reduce pressure on natural
forests, expand domestic wood supply, and generate environmental
benefits;I Expand GEF program, as China's global biodiversity resources
warrant a larger share of international support than is presently
received;I Diversify participants in sector dialogue by reaching out to
the wider academic community, a broader range of institutions, and NGOs in
the forest sector.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues            The SFDP has been assigned an EA category "A"
in the Bank's classification system.An Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment (reviewing the project's likely positive and negative
environmental and social impacts) and an Environmental Management Plan
(covering mitigation measures, monitoring, and institutional
strengthening) have been prepared. The report incorporated the findings
and recommendations of the Social Assessment (SA) which was conducted
separately. Environmental Issues: Overall, the project focuses on
high-priority natural resource management issues and is expected to
generate significant environmental benefits. The National Forest
Management (NFM)FM and Protected Area Management (PAM) components are
expected to have positive environmental impacts, both directly, by
protecting some of the most important remaining natural forests and
associated biodiversity in China, and indirectly, through protecting key
watersheds and thus lowering the risk of downstream flooding. Any
negative environmental issues arising from these components are expected
to be insignificant and easily mitigated. Simple environmental guidelines
will be formulated for village-level small-scale infrastructure once they
are identified through the community assessment and planning process under
- 8 -



the NFM component. Guidelines for infrastructure development proposed for
nature reserves willould be included in the reserve management plan. The
Plantations Establishment (PE) component should also have positive
environment impacts through the reduction of pressures on the natural
forest as well as decreased demand for imports of forest resources from
outside of China, and contributions to local community income. Negative
environmental issues arising from this component are expected to be
limited in scope and easily mitigated. Nonetheless, these will require an
in-depth process to be followed, principally due to the wide geographic
coverage of the component. An objectively verifiable process of screening
of sites identified for conversion to plantation under the component has
been developed to ensure that the component sites are outside of intact
forest, will not convert or degrade natural habitats, or adversely affect
cultural property. In addition a pest management plan as well as a set of
environmental protection guidelines for plantations establishment (revised
from an earlier version developed under previous Bank-financed plantations
projects) providing plantation planning, establishment and operations
protocols will be applied to ensure that unintended environmental impacts
are avoided, with special attention to issues of pest management.Social
Issues & the Consultative Process: The social assessment (SA) process has
driven the design and re-design of specific sub-components of the project.
As a result, specific project activities are more aligned with the needs
of local communities. Moreover, areas of possible conflict (between
community demands and natural resource protection objectives, between
participating and non-participating communities in the project area, and
between communities and government agencies) have been identified and
appropriate instruments have been designed to safeguard against potential
risks to community livelihoods. The project will continue to use social
assessments during implementation.A three-phase consultation process, well
integrated into the SA process was followed during project preparation.
The first round of formal consultations followed a two stage approach:
First, project information leaflets and brochures describing the proposed
project concept were developed, distributed, and explained on two
occasions, December 16, 1999 and March 6, 2000 --in each of the proposed
project sites. ; Second, the distribution and discussion of project
information was followed up with a second round of wide-spread
consultations through the Social Assessment (SA) process. To date,The SA
included semi-structured interviews of over 1,500 households in
approximately 242 project villages across 13 project provinces and over 70
focus group discussions involving some 8,000 community residents. have
been conducted. Of those consulted, 900 households belong to one of the
18 ethnic minority groups that may participate in the project and over 50
focus group discussions were held in ethnic minority areas. In addition,
dozens of institutional stakeholder meetings, attended by (with
administrative village leaders, township, county and provincial government
officials) were held. Over 70 individual SA reports are available in the
project files. Moreover, international environmental NGOs and major
donors (World Wildlife Fund, The Nature Conservancy, Conservation
International rternational, Ford Foundation, US Forestry Service, National
Science Foundation, San Diego Zoo) working on or interested in China
forestry conservation have been consulted. The third round of formal
consultations focused on discussion of the draft Environment and Social
Impact Assessment (ESIA). As part of this consultation, all project
affected people were informed of the ESIA findings and more than one
hundred villages were randomly selected for village meetings. Leaflets of
-9-



the ESIA findings and recommendations were distributed and posted in each
village at least 10 days prior to a meeting. In areas where Han Chinese
are not comment, the leaflets were translated into local languages (e.g.,
Tibetan & Lisu). The village representative assigned a responsible person
to keep minutes and summarize the discussion, including (a) the number of
men and women who attended the meeting; (b) composition of villagers,
village leaders, township/county officials, PMO staff, etc, who attended
the meeting; and (c) a summary of questions, comments and concerns raised
at the meeting. High levels of consultation and participation from diverse
stakeholders are central to the outcome of the project. For this reason,
the participatory and consultative approach initiated through the SA
process will be continued through implementation as part of the
participatory forest/nature reserve management planning and community
development planning process, monitoring and evaluation.Areas of remaining
natural forest and natural habitat in China are located in relatively
remote, steeply sloping areas. These areas are also home to significant
ethnic minority populations. As both the Natural Forest Management and
the Protected Area Management components focus on remaining areas of
natural forest and natural habitat, the project areas for these two
components include large populations of relatively poor ethnic
minorities. Of the 55 recognized nationalities in China, a total of 18
reside in the project areas. As part of the SA process, ethnic
profiles/briefs were prepared highlighting (i) the location and population
of the ethnic minorities; (ii) different sub-groups, specific language
type and levels of literacy; and (iii) key measures being taken under the
project to ensure cultural and location specific appropriateness. The
results contributed to the development of a separate Ethnic Minorities
Development Plan and in accordance with World Bank Operational Directive
4.20 on Indigenous Peoples. Project sites in Sichuan, Yunnan, and Gansu
provinces are inhabited by ethnic Tibetans, and two project areas are in
areas that have special status as Tibetan autonomous areas. In the
Natural Forest Management component, Songpan County, Aba Tibetan-Qiang
Autonomous Prefecture, Sichuan Province was included because of its rich
natural forests and biodiversity. Similarly, the Protected Area
Management component includes Baimaxueshan Nature Reserve in Diqing
Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan Province, because of the condition
of the natural forest and globally significant biodiversity found there.
In addition, Ganzi Autonomous Region, a part of western Sichuan that is
historically considered to be part of greater Tibet, is the focus of the
project biodiversity survey. Local consultations undertaken as part of the
Social Assessment confirmed interest and willingness on the part of
Tibetan communities and their leaders to participate in the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Susan S. Shen
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: : (86-10) 6554-3361, ext: 3410
Fax: : (86-10) 6554-1686
Email: sshen@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
- 10 -



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 11, 2001.
- 11 -



