E 42
People's Republic of China
State Forestry Administration
ETHNIC MINORITIES DEVELOPMENT PLAN (EMDP)
for the
Sustainable Forestry Development Project (SFDP)
March 2001



CONTENTS
1.0   An Overview of Objectives
1.1   Objective of SFDP
1.2   Objective of EMDP
1.3   Principles Guiding the EMDP
2.0   Ethnic Minority Nationalities in China: A General Introduction
3.0   Legal Foundations & Framework Concerning Ethnic Minorities
4.0   Ethnic Minority Nationalities Living In SFDP Project Areas: An Overview
4.1    Ethnic Beneficianres of SFDP
5.0   Ethnic Minority Nationalities Profiles As Assessed Via the SA Process
5.1   Vulnerability & Ethnicity
5.2   Vulnerability & Gender
5.3   New Forestry Laws & Policies Affectincg Ethnic Minorities
5.4   Literacy, Languages and Communication.
6.0   Ethnic Minority Nationalities: Profiles As Assessed By the SA Process
6.1   Li
6.2   Tibetan
6.3   Qiang
6.4   Tujia
6.5   Miao
6.6   Yao
6.7   She
6.8    Lisu
6.9   Nu
6.10  Dulong
6.11  Bai
6.12  Naxi
6.13  Pumi
6.14  Yi
6.15  Dong
6.16  Hui
6.17  Mongol
6.18  Manchu
7.0   Project Site Profiles (Containing Ethnic Minoritv Nationalities)
Natural Forest Management (NFM) Component Sites
7.1   Wangxia township and Bawangling SFE, Hainan Province
7.2   Ceyuan & Shidou townships, Yanling county, Hunan Province
7.3   Xiaoxi & Zhenxi townships, Yongshun county, Hunan Province
7.4   Longdong and Yongfu townships and Jiajimshan SFE, Baoxing county, Sichuan Province
7.5   Baima and Muzuo townships and Pingvwu SFE, Pingwu county, Sichuan Province
7.6   Mouni township, Songpan county, Sichuan Province
7.7.  Xiaoxing township and Songpan SFE, Songpan county, Sichuan Province
2



Protected Areas Management (PAM) Component Sites
7.8   Baishuijiang NR, Gansu Province
7.9   Fanjingshan NR, Guizhou Province
7.10  Jianfengling NR, Hainan Province
7.11  Houhe NR, Hubei Province
7.12  Badagongshan NR, Hunan Province
7.13  Hupingshan NR, Hunan Province
7.14  Baiyang NR, Sichuan Province
7.15  Piankou NR, Sichuan Province
7.16   Si'er NR, Sichuan Province
7.17  Tangjiahe NR, Sichuan Province
7.18  Xiaozhaizigou NR, Sichuan Province
7.19  Nujiang NR, Yunnan Province
7.20  Baimaxueshan NR, Yunnan Province
8.0   SFDP Development Activities Supporting Ethnic Minorities
8.1   General Project Features Facilitating Ethnic Minority Participation
8.2   Specific Support for Ethnic Minority Participation in Project
8.21  NFM Component
8.22  PAM Component
9.0    Participation of Ethnic Minority Nationalities in SFDP Preparation & Implementation
9.1    SFDP Preparation
9.2   Recommendations for Implementation
10.0  Design of Project Activities As A Result of SA Process
10.1  Natural Forest Management
10.2  Balanced Land Use
10.3  Tourism Development
10.4  Gender
10.5  Conflict Resolution Mechanism
10.6  Policy Framework
10.7  Process Framework
11.0  Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
12.0  Estimated Budget & Financing Plan
Annexes:
Annex 1:     Songpan County Tibetan & Qiang Ethnic Groups Investigation Report (25 pages)
Annex 2:     Tables: Ethnic Minority Site Profiles
Tables
Table 1: Population in Minority National Autonomous Areas (1995)
3



Table 2: Geographic Distribution of Minority Nationalities
Table 3: Chinese Regulations on Ethnic Minority Nationalities by Categorv
Table 4: Provincial Government Regulations & Laws
Table 5: Distribution of Ethnic Minonrty Nationalities by SFDP Component
Table A2.1 Ethnic Groups in NFM Project Counties
Table A2.2 Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries - NFM Component
Table A2.3 Ethnic Minority SFE Workers - NFM
Table A2.4 Ethnic Groups in PAM Nature Reserves
Table A2.5 Ethnic Groups in PE Project Counties
Table A2.6 Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries in Pilot PE Counties
4



Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (E.MDP)1
1.0    An Overview of Objectives
This section (ii) summarizes the objectives of the Sustainable Forestry Development Project (SFDP), and
(ii) outlines the objectives of the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (EMDP) under the project.
1.1 Objective of SFDP: The objective of the Sustainable Forestry Development Project is to ensure that
innovative management approaches (which significantly involve communitv based initiatives) are widely
adopted in selected natural forests and protected areas to relieve pressures on unsustainable exploitation of
forest resources and to protect the natural environment. In addition, the project seeks to establish
plantations that would support increasing wood production to meet the growing gap between domestic
supply and demand, to generate employment opportunities and farm income. These new approaches
developed and applied for the protection and sustainable management of natural forest resources in pilot
areas in China would provide models for wider replication under the govemment's Natural Forest
Protection Program (NFPP).
The project is supported by three key components which integrate forest conservation with improved
economic opportunities for mostly poor ethnic minority groups and more vulnerable populations
inhabiting project sites. In China, the remaining natural forest areas tend to be located in more remote
areas inhabited by minority nationalities. Moreover, it is also well recognized that in order to successfully
protect China's remaining natural forests, minority nationality populations must be effectively engaged in
project activities. As a result, the clear majority of SFDP beneficiaries belong to one of fifteen ethnic
minority nationalities, particularly in two of the three project components-the Natural Forest Management
(NFM) component and the Protected Areas Management (PAM) component. Project preparation process
thus far has therefore attempted to involve these communities as much as possible in designing the various
project activities. It is further recognized that ethnic minority groups would be involved in the on-going
project preparation process and eventual implementation of this 6 year project.
The three components of the project that would support the project's main objective include: (i) Natural
Forest Management Component (NFM) which would support the development and dissemination of
improved techniques of sustainable management of natural forest areas protected under the Government's
NFPP and community development activities targeting selected rural communities in the project forest
management areas who are most affected by the NFPP restrictions because of their reliance on forest
resources for their livelihood; (ii) Protected Areas Management Component (PAM) would support
improved management of biodiversity of global importance in selected, high priority nature reserves in
natural forest areas and support sustainable livelihood opportunities to improve the economic welfare of
poor communities that rely on nature reserves for survival; and, (iii) Plantation Establishment Component
(PE) would support increasing production of wood to meet the growing gap between domestic supply and
demand, to generate new employment and income for forestry farms and rural households and to improve
environmental management.
1.2 Objective of EMDP: The core objective of the Ethnic Minorities Development Plan (EMDP) is to
ensure that the process of development generated by the Sustainable Forestry Development Project
(SFDP) fully respects the dignity of ethnic minorities, their cultural rights and their cultural identity. In
In this document, "Etinic Minorities," "Minority Nationalities," 'Ethnic Minority Nationalities," are used
interchangeably. The term "Minority Nationalities" is the officially recognized term by the Chinese Government for
what the World Bank refers to as Indigenous Ethnic Minorities or Indigenous People.
5



particular, the objective of this plan is to ensure that the ethnic minority populations do not suffer negative
effects of the project and that they receive social and economic benefits compatible with their culture.
This is accomplished by a participatory and consultative process engaging ethnic minority stakeholders to
ensure that the concerns of ethnic minorities have been taken into account in project design. Moreover,
specific areas for further investigation flagged by the Social Assessment (SA) process, the provincial,
national, and international social assessment experts, and raised in this document would serve to hone the
project more toward meeting the development objectives of peoples classified as ethnic minority
nationalities. The preparation process to date would suggest that the strategy adopted by SFDP would
allow these objectives to be achieved.
1.3 Pnrnciples Guiding the EMDP with respect to SFDP's Protected Areas Management component.
*  If there is any decline in imputed income or decline in the livelihood of project affected peoples as
a result of (a) changes in zoning, (b) changes in regulations, andl/or (c) enforcement of existing
regulations or strengthening enforcement of existing regulations under the project, the project
affected peoples would be eligible for mitigation assistance in accordance with the Process
Framework.
*  Proposals for changes in zoning, changes in regulations, and/or additional enforcement of existing
regulations under the project would be incorporated into the Nature Reserve Management Plan.
This Management Plan is subject to Bank review. Therefore, any potential adverse livelihood
impact on project affected peoples as a result of this project would be mitigated in accordance
with the Process Framework and subject to Bank Review.
2.0    Ethnic Minority Nationalities in China: A General Introduction2
Approximately 8.2 percent of China's population, or 91 million people, are members of fifty-five
officially designated Chinese "national minority peoples" or "minority ethnic groups" (shaoshu minzu).
They inhabit every province and municipality of China. but are concentrated in the border regions in
China's northern, northwestem, western, and southwestern sectors. About two-thirds of the members of
minority nationalities inhabit "nationalities autonomous areas" (minzu zizhi quyu), including five
province-level autonomous regions (Tibet, Xinjiang, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, and Guangxi), thirty
autonomous prefectures (zizhi zhou) in ten provinces and autonomous regions, and 1 3 autonomous
counties (zizhi xian) in eighteen provinces and autonomous regions. Over 90 percent of China's
international borders and virtually all areas within 200 kilometers of those borders belong to minority
autonomous areas. Despite their relatively sparse population, minority autonomous areas contain over 60
percent of China's total land area, and approximately 14 percent of the total national population. In
addition, most minorities live in strategic border areas and areas rich in natural resources.
The table below illustrates the number and proportion of minority nationalities inhabiting designated
ethnic minonrty autonomous areas in the listed provinces. In SFDP project provinces (designated in bold
italics below), the population of ethnic minonrty nationalities is approximately 50% of the total population
living in those minority nationality autonomous areas.
Table 1
Population in Minority National Autonomous Areas (1995)
2 The section is based on the following reports: China Minoritv Profiles (1997); Legal Research on Indigenous
People in the People's Republic of China (1997); SFDP Social Assessment Report (2000).
6



Region       Total     Minority   Minority    Region     Total     Minority    Minority
Population  Population  Population           Population  Population  Population
in         in       asa%of                   in         in       asa%of
Officially  Officially   Total               Officially  Officially   Total
Designated  Designated  Population           Designated  Designated  Population
Minority   Minority   in Minority            Minontv    Minority  in Minority
Areas       Areas    Areas (%)               Areas      Areas       Areas
(10,000)   (10,000)                          (10,000)   (10,000)
National       16038.9     7281.81    45.4      Guangxi      4455.1      1719.3    38.6
Hebei            190.1       103.5    54.4      Hainan        229.7       100.3    43.7
Inner           2260.4       434.0     19.2     Sichuan       842.2      456.2     54.7
Mongolia
Liaoning         386.8       184.1    47.6      Guizhou      1393.4       785.2    56.4
Jilin            318.8       117.1    36.7       Yunnan      1975.0      1060.8    53.7
Heilongjiang      24.4         5.1    20.9         Tibet      228.9       222.4    97.6
Zhejiang          17.4        1.72     9.9       Gansu        287.9       156.9    54.5
Hubei            433.8       204.1    47.1      Qinghai       284.3       163.6    57.6
Hunan            530.0       363.7    68.6      Ningxia       503.9       171.5    34.0
Guangdong         44.1        16.1    36.5      Xinjiang     1632.7      1016.2    62.2
Source: Wang (1997); Notes: SFDP project provinces in bold italics; Data on Henan, Shandong, Shanxi, Anhui
provinces are not available.
Table 2 (below) illustrates the geographic location of all 55 recognized ethnic minority nationalities in
China. This table is particularly noteworthy as activities financed by the China Sustainable Forestry
Development Project cover twelve Chinese provinces spread throughout the country and would involve
different ethnic minority nationalities.
Table 2
Geographic Distribution of Miinority Nationalities
Ethnic iMIinority                       Main Geographic Distribution
Mongolian         Inner Mongolia, Liaoning, Tilin, Hebei. Heilongjiang, Xinjiang, Qinghai, and Gansu
Hui               Ningxia, Gansu, Henan, Xinjiang, Qinghai, Yunnan, Hebei, Shandong, Anhui, Liaoning,
Beijing, Inner Mongolia, Tianjin, Heilongjiang, Shaanxi, Guizou, Jilin, Jiangsu, Sichuan
Tibetan           Tibet, Sichuan, Qinghai, Gansu, Yunnan
Uygur             Xinjiang
Miao              Guizhou, Hunan, Yunnan, Sichuan, Guangxi, Hubei, and Hainan
Yi                Yunnan, Sichuan, and Guizhou
Zhuang            Guanxi, Yunnan, and Guandong
Bouyei            Guizhou and Yunnan
Korean           Jilin, Heilongjiang, Liaoning, Inner Mongolia
Manchu            Liaoning, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Jilin, Inner Mongolia
Dong              Guizhou, Hunan, Guanxi and Hubei
Yao               Guangxi, Hunan, Yunnan, Guandong and Guizhou
Bai               Yunnan, Guizhou and Hunan
Tujia             Hunan, Hubei, Sichuan and Guizhou
Hani              Yunnan
Kazak             Xinjiang and Gansu
Dai               Yunnan
Li                Hainan and Guizhou
Lisu              Yunnan and Sichuan
Va                Yunnan
She               Fujian, Zheiiang, Jiangxi, and Guandong
Gaoshan           Taiwan and Fujian
7



Lahu             Yunnan
Dongxiang        Gansu and Xinjiang
Naxi             Yunnan
Jingpo           Yunnan
Kirgiz           Xinjiang
Tu               Qinghai and Gansu
Daur             Inner Mongolia and Heilongjiang
Mulam            Guangxi
Qiang            Sichuan
Biang            Yunnan
Salar            Qinghai and Gansu
Maonan           Guangxi
Gelao            Guizhou
Xibe             Liaoning and Xinjiang
Achang           Yunnan
Pumi             Yunnan
Tajik            Xinjiang
Nu               Yunnan
Uzbek            Xinjiang
Russian          Xinjiang and Heilongjiang
Ewenki           Inner Mongolia
Deang            Yunnan
Baoan            Gansu
Yugur            Gansu
Jing             Guangxi
Tatar            Xinjiang
Drung            Yunnan
Orgen            Heilongjiang and Inner Mongolia
Hezhen           Heilongjiang
Monba            Tibet
Lhoba            Tibet
Jino             Yunnan
The next section, Section 3.0, provides an overview of the legal foundations and framework for ethnic
minorities as stated in China's Constitution and other laws and regulations. It briefly discusses the
governance structure of designated ethnic minon'ty provinces, prefectures, counties, and townships.
Moreover, it briefly discusses the legal and legislative policies conceming economic, linguistic,
educational, cultural and religious rights and responsibilities for ethnic minorities.
3.0    Legal Foundations & Framework Concerning Ethnic Minorities
The legal foundations of the current system of limited minority local autonomy are found in the Law on
Autonomy in Nationalities Regions (Minzu Quyu Zizhi Fa, referred to as the ,4utonomy Law throughout
this document), passed by the second session of the sixth National People's Congress on May 31, 1984.
This law provides for the establishment of minority nationalities autonomous areas on the basis of
concentrated population of one or more minority nationalities in a particular area. It states that the
establishment, boundaries, and naming of such areas should be undertaken by government authorities at
the same and higher levels "in full consultation with representatives of the relevant nationalities."
Generally, the Autonomy Law establishes the right of minority nationalities in autonomous areas to "use
special policies and flexible methods" adopted "in accordance with the actual situation in specific areas"
8



to promote economic and cultural development. However, this is not the only law that targets minority
nationalities.
In addition to the Autonomy Law, the Chinese Government at each administrative level (Central,
Provincial, and Local) has established scores of laws and regulations specific to minority nationalities.
Approximately 412 documents (which includes laws, rules, provisions, circulars, resolutions and
regulations) contain references to governance within minority nationality areas or stipulates the rights of
minority nationalities. The overarching objectives of these laws and regulations are eight-fold: (i) to
realize the equality of all nationalities; (ii) to ensure the unity of all nationalities; (iii) to enforce the
autonomy of minority nationality areas; (iv) to respect the culture and customs of all minority
nationalities; (v) to guarantee freedom of religion and belief; (vi) to encourage the development of
languages of minority nationalities; (vii) to use minority nationality cadres as much as possible; and, (viii)
to promote economic development.
The number of different Central Government regulations by subject areas classified in the Collection of
Regulations on Minority Nationalities edited by the State Ethnic Affairs Commission is presented in the
table below (Table 3). This is followed by a table of regulations issued by thirty Provincial Government's
throughout the People's Republic of China (Table 4).
9



Table 3
Chinese Regulations on Ethnic Minority Nationalities by Category
________________________ | Laws  Rules  Provisions  Circulars  Other Regulations  Total
Comprehensive           2      3         2           8             13             28
Political               25      6         7          10             4             52
Economic                8      18         8         39             21             94
Cultural & religion     8       8        9          24             24             73
Education & science     4       4        16         35             64            123
Health, Marriage and    2       4         1          1              13            21
Family Planning                                           . i
Personnel               3       2         1          6              9             21
Total                  52      45        44         123            148           412
Table 4
Provincial Government Issued Regulations on Minoritv Nationalities
Municipality, Province   # of               Municipalitv,         # of
and Autonomous Region    Regulations        Province and         Regulations
Autonomous Region
1     Beijing                  12            16   Henan                12
2     Tianjing                 7             17   Hubei                7
3     Hebei                    5             18   Hunan                7
4     Shanxi                   3             19   Guangdong            4
5     Inner Mongolia           5             20   Guangxi              5
6     Liaoning                 7             21   Hainan               7
7     Jilin                   12             22   Sichuan              4
8     Heilngjiang              5             23   Guizhou              4
9     Shanghai                 5             24   Yunnan               6
10   Jiangsu                  3             25    Tibet                2
11    Zhejiang                7             26    Shaanxi              8
12    Anhui                   5             27    Gansu                4
13    Fuj ian                 5             28    Qinghai              6
14   Jiangxi                  3             29   Ningxia               6
15    Shandong                7              30   Xinjiang             11
Note: Bold indicates a SFDP Project Province
10



4.0    Ethnic Minorities/Nationalities Living In SFDP Project Areas3
Of the 55 recognized minzu ("nationalities" or ethnic minonty groups) in China, a total of 18 of them, Li,
Tibetan, Qiang, Tujia, Miao, She, Dong, Dulong, Hui, Afongols, Manchus, Yao, Bai, Lisu, Nu, Yi, Pumi
and Naxi reside in SFDP project counties and sites. The table below presents the location (province) of
each of these minority groups and within which component of SFDP each group falls.
Table 5
Distribution of Ethnic Minority Nationalities by SFDP Component
Ethnic Minority           By Location   |          By SFDP Component
(Province)   I    NFM          PAM           PE
Li                    Hainan            *            *            *
Tibetan                 Sichuan
Yunnan                         *
Gansu                          *
Qiang                   Sichuan           *            *            *
Tujia                   Hunan             *            *            *
Hubei*
Guizhou                         *
Miao                    Hunan             *            *            *
Hubei                          *
Guizhou*
Dong                   Guizhou                         *
Yao                    Hunan       l        T
Hui                    Sichuan           *
Gansu                                       *
Mongol, Manchu              Liaoning
Yi, Bai, Lisu, Naxi, Nu, Pumi, Yi  Yunnan
She                    Hunan             *
Note: NFM refers to the Natural Forest Management component, PAM refers to the Protected Areas Management
component, PE refers to the Plantation Establishment component of the project.
Of the ethnic minority groups represented above, the largest number of ethnic minority nationalities that
inhabit SFDP project areas include the Li, Miao, Tibetan, Bai, Qiang, Tujia, and Miao. The Yao, She, Yi,
Nu, Lisu, Pumi, Bai, Dulong and Naxi are found in a very small number of project areas and in small
numbers. With respect to SFDP project areas, Mongols and Manchus are only found in only 3 PE
component counties in Liaoning province. The Hui people inhabit only a few SFDP project areas in
Sichuan and Gansu provinces. They are mostly traders and live in township and county centers and are
not found in specific project villages. Generally, ethnic minority beneficiaries of SFDP are located in
remote areas where the remaining natural forests are located or adjacent to protected areas such as nature
reserves. As a result, the project seeks to work with mostly ethnic minority communities in its attempt to
achieve its sustainable development and biodiversity conservation objectives.
4.1 Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries of SFDP. The Social Assessment indicates that there would be
approximately 687,500 household beneficiaries (2.75 million individuals) of the project, of which at least
3% (or 87,800 individuals) belong to one of the ethnic minority nationalities. The approximate number of
3Annex 2 contains six tables that present in tabular format, the number and percentages of each ethnic minority
nationality in each SFDP project site. These tables further break down this information by component.



ethnic minority beneficiaries are found to be uneven across each of the three project components as
reflected in the table below. This is a result of the fact that two project components, PAM and NFM, are
located in remote natural forest areas where ethnic minorities reside, while the PE component is located
only in areas suitable for commercial plantation establishment and participants have to be willing to
borrow funds at commercial rates.
Ethnic Minority Project Beneficiaries
Component                    NFM          PAM            PE         Total
Total Beneficiaries          29,100       57,200      2.667,600   2,753,900
Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries  11,600     40,600        23,700      75,900
% Ethnic Minorities          45%           71%           1%          3%
*  Natural Forest jMfanagement (NFM). An approximate total of 13,100 ethnic people inhabit SFDP
NFM component villages of which 27% are Li (living in Hainan province), 31 % are Tibetans (living
in Sichuan province), 6% are Qiang (also living in Sichuan province), and 35% are Tujia (living in
Hunan province). There are also She, Yao, and Miao people in very small numbers living in project
areas in Hunan province. The ethnic population account for 54% to 100% of the beneficiary
population in 9 out of the 13 NFM project townships. and only 5% in the remaining four sites (two in
Sichuan province and two in Hunan province).
*  Protected Area Management (PAM). Approximately 191,000 people belonging to one of the officially
recognized ethnic minority/nationality groups reside in one of 78 project townships where thirteen
project Nature Reserves (NR) are located. More than 50 percent of the ethnic minorities live within
and around the two Yunnan province nature reserves. where they account for 81%-100% of the project
township population. Most of the remaining ethnic minorities live in and around eight nature reserves
and account on average for approximately 93% of population in 56 townships. A total of 230
administrative villages in these townships, mostly inhabited by ethnic minorities are located within
nature reserve boundaries. However, twenty-six villages will participate in community based
conservation activities, and another 39 villages will join fuelwood management or technical training
activities. An additional 7 villages would be supported in community-based wildlife management
projects. The exact numbers of ethnic minority beneficiaries will become more accurate once each of
the project villages has been selected for this component. This would occur during the first year of
implementation.
* Plantation Establishment (PE). Only 14 of the 107 PE counties or 13% of them contain ethnic
minority populations (one county in Hainan, Sichuan. and Gansu provinces; two counties in Henan
province; four counties in Hunan province; and, five counties in Liaoning province). In each of these
counties, the ethnic minority population ranges between 5%-97% of the total county population. A
process of formnal application to join the project would continue to be carried out in each of the 107
project counties to ensure wide participation. A total estimate of 2,667,600 households would take part
in the component, of which less than 34,000 (or 1%) would belong to one of the recognized ethnic
minority nationalities.
5.0    Summary of Issues Facing Ethnic Minorities in Project Areas
This section bnrefly summarizes four key issues hypothesized to face ethnic minority nationalities
in SFDP project areas and the SA findings.
12



5.1 Vulnerability & Ethnicity. The level of vulnerability is uneven across different minority nationality
groups. While the Tujia are well integrated in the mainstream society in both north-west Hunan and
Guizhou provinces, the Li, Miao and Yao people are generally in a more -ulnerable and marginal position
as compared to other minority nationalities in SFDP project areas. This is a result of the location in which
they live and the livelihood opportunities in these areas. People of Tibetan and Qiang ethnicity benefiting
from the project live on the eastern edge of the Tibetan plateau, a region where there has been more
assimilation and integration between ethnic groups. For example, the two-tloored houses have Han tile
roofs, Qiang stone ground floor and Tibetan wooden upper walls. The Qiang people are integrated into the
Han culture in Pingwu, and into the Tibetan culture in Songpan, Sichuan Province. Tibetans in Songpan
are Amdo-Pa of the Drog Pa and Shar Pa tribes. The Tibetans in two Sichuan townships (which make up
approximately 57% of the NFM Tibetan population) and one nearby PAM township (Baishujiang NR in
Yunnan Province) are the Baima Tibetan polytheist sub-group. Natural villages in the project areas are
inhabited by one ethnic group only, with Han, Hui or mixed households being the exception, and several
townships in Hainan Province and Sichuan Province have only one ethnic group.
5.2 Vulnerability & Gender. The SA revealed that women of Li and Miao minority nationality were
found to have a distinctly lower social status than women belonging to other minority nationality groups in
SFDP project areas. Women were found to have longer working hours both at home and in farming
operations than men in the same villages. Moreover, women of these minority nationalities are more likely
to face problems with illiteracy (especially Chinese) than men.
5.3 New Forestry Policies Affecting Ethnic Minorities. Logging Ban, NAPP, Sloping Land Regeneration
(SLR). Almost all of the ethnic minonrties within the SFDP project areas reside in the upper reached of the
various watersheds. This means that they live closest to the forest, and usually at higher elevations in
mountainous areas. The restrictions on the collection of forest products and farming on sloped land
induced by the new forestry policies are having a profound impact on them. The magnitude of this impact
is due not only to their high dependency on forestry for their incomes and subsistence consumption, but
also because communities and local governments generally lack the institutional capacity and leverage to
negotiate local implementation of policies, adjust plans, resolve land tenure conflicts and access complex
funding channels. Government revenue streams have sharply declined as a result of the logging ban. In
some project areas, however, the logging ban is met with mixed blessings. This is especially true of
Tibetan areas in Songpan County, Sichuan Province since there have been conflicts between Tibetan
ethnic minority villages and logging companies over the unregulated logging in areas considered of
religious and cultural significance. Ironically, while these groups are generally pleased that the logging
companies have been forced to stop logging these areas. they are also now unemployed and without work.
Other issues raised by ethnic minority groups as a result of the new forest policies are summarized in each
project area profile (see Section 7.0).
5.4 Literacy, Languages and Communication. The lack of basic literacy would most likely be an issue
throughout many project sites. Adult literacy remains very low in most of the ethnic minority groups in the
project areas. Village leaders can typically only partially read simple written Chinese. While literacy rates
have grown among young people, it is still limited. School attendance is sparse in project areas, and has
been declining in Hunan and Sichuan due to higher school fees and lost forestry incomes. Fluency in
spoken Chinese varies a lot and the situation of each project area has been documented by the Social
Assessment. The Tujia have reportedly been Chinese speakers since the Ming dynasty and are unlikely to
have a problem with written and spoken Chinese. The Baima Tibetans in the project area have basic to
good fluency in spoken Chinese, sometimes both Sichuanese and standard Chinese. In the Tibetan
communities in Songpan county, community leaders have high education levels but many community
members do not have good understanding of Chinese. Qiang communities are diverse. Children do not
speak Qiang anymore in some of them, and Qiang remains the main langua-e in others. Primary school is
legally and de facto bilingual in Aba prefecture, Sichuan province. In Hainan province, the Li
13



communities adjacent to State farms and other Han communities have a good command of standard
Chinese. Elsewhere, they speak one of the five Li languages and can communicate in Hainanese.
Television sets and satellite dishes are present and often in substantial numbers in all project villages
except in poorer communities in Hainan province. TV and video have become the most efficient media to
ensure communication.
14



6.0   Social Assessment Led Ethnic Minority Profiles
This section presents profiles of ethnic minority nationalities living within SFDP project areas.
Specifically, it highlights (i) the location and population of the minonrty natonality; (ii) the different sub-
groups, their language and levels of literacy; (iii) their use of land and means of livelihood; and, (iv) key
measures being taken under the project to ensure cultural and location specific appropriateness.
6.1   Li
Location and Population Growth. The 1.2 million Li people (1998 population census) account for 95% of
Hainan province's ethnic minorities and approximately 80% of Hainan's hillside farmers. They mostly
inhabit the interior central and southern hills of Hainan island. From 1990 to 1998, the Li population has
steadily increased by 5.6%. There are 9 (of 19 Counties) Li and/or Miao Autonomous Counties in Hainan
of which 3 are identified to take part in SFDP. Overall, the rural population in the project townships are
mostly Li with a smaller number of ethnic Miao.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Li languages are Kadai languages, with 30% lexical similarity
with Northern Zhuang (Guangxi) and five distinct dialects: Ha/Lao (spoken by 70% of the Li population),
Qi (spoken by 25% of the Li population), Rin, Meifu and Jiamao (spoken by the remaining 5% of the Li
population). Approximately 70% of ethnic Li people located in the project area speak one of the many Li
dialects. Communities adjacent to State farms or other Han communities (PE component in Tongza) have
good command of standard Chinese. Hainanese is the common shared language between each of the sub-
ethnic groups. Illiteracy is prevalent. The Li in Wangxia NFM township are from the Xiao branch.
Land Use & Livelihood Activities. Livelihood activities in Li areas comprise mostly of paddy (irrigated
and rainfed) farming, rain-fed cassava, sweet potatoes, and maize cultivation and supplementary slash-
and-burn cultivation, including upland rice. Paddy land has remained limited for communities resettled
from reservoir areas (i.e. the Li people inhabiting areas adjacent to Jianfengling NR in Hainan province).
Li settlements are usually compact, which leaves little room for home gardens. However, their natural
villages are usually surrounded by small tree gardens (coconut, beetle nut, neem) and secondary forests
which provide supplementary income. Pigs and chickens are raised around the house and cattle are usually
left to graze within the forests. The Li are traditionally hunters and they also fish. [Note: Currently, the
China-German Tropical Forest Rehabilitation and Forest Protection project is in the process of carefully
documenting forest and land uses in the Wuzhishan nature reserve, which would be used by the project
implementation team when the report becomes available].
Measures Being Taken to Ensure Cultural/Location Specific Appropriateness.
*  Communication. Spoken communication in Hainanese; any additional CFA work would follow the
existing methodology where pictures and drawings are used to convey key messages and solicit
information; a facilitator of Li ethnicity fluent in the traditional language would be used to conduct
this work.
*  Co-Management. Li communities have been in a marginal position as compared to people working in
large State Forest Enterprises in the same area. Economic development activities would help to
provide sustainable livelihood opportunities for them and would be developed in direct consultation
with them.
15



* Leadership. Natural village heads tend to play a more important role in livelihood activities as
compared to administrative village heads and the project will fully take them into account.
* Microcredit & Training. Specific targeting of women; Meetings would be held in the evening, the time
of day preferred by women.
* Gender Sensitivities. Hunting, fishing, and bamboo/ rattan weaving are traditionally male activities
whereas drinking water collection and pig raising are among the traditional female activities.
Significant attention would be placed on gender differentials when designing project activities such
that activities were accessible to all.
* Forest Zoning. The Li are polytheists. They believe in a mountain god and forest god.
6.2    Tibetan (see Annex I) for a more detailed investigation of Tibetans in SFDP areas
Location and Population. The SFDP project area covers Southern Gansu province (Longnan prefecture),
Western Sichuan province (Aba and Mianyang prefectures) and Northwest Yunnan province which
contain the eastemmost Tibetan settlements in China. Ethnic Tibetans inhabit each of the 10 NFM and all
of the PAM project counties in these three provinces. They account for approximately 20% of the
population in Wenxian township, Gansu province and approximately 80% of the beneficiary population in
Songpan county, Sichuan province which is located within Aba Tibetan and Qiang Ethnic Autonomous
Prefecture. Each of the project counties in Sichuan contain either purely Tibetan or a mix of
Qiang/Tibetan ethnic townships. Approximately 4,100 Tibetan people reside within NFM project
townships. The total Tibetan population in Sichuan province is approximately 1.1 million people; 0.9
million Tibetans reside in Gansu province; and, 0.4 million live in Yunnan province.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. Tibetans in the Sichuan project area have long had frequent
communication with other ethnic groups, which has enabled more integration compared with Tibet.
Tibetans in Songpan county, Sichuan province are referred to as Xifan (coming from the west) and may
have integrated with aboriginal Songpan people at the beginning of the 7h Century. Bilingual
(Tibetan/Chinese) and trilingual (Tibetan/Chinese/Qiang) areas have also emerged. The SFDP project
area in Sichuan province is part of the Amdo-Tibetan region. In Mouni and Xiaoxing townships in
Songpan County, people belong to the Drog pa tribe (herdsmen) and speak the Amdo dialect. Tibetans in
eastern Songpan (near Baiyang NR) are part of the Shar pa tribe (oriental people) and speak a Tibetan
language close to ancient Tibetan. Communication with other Tibetans, however was not found to be a
problem. In the Tibetans communities in Songpan county, community leaders have high formal education
levels in Chinese but men above 60 years old and women above 50 years old do not tend to understand
Chinese. Primary school is legally and de facto bilingual in the autonomous areas in the project area. In
Si'er township, Pingwu county, Sichauan Province, Tibetans live among Han communities and have good
command of spoken Chinese.
The Tibetans in two NFM townships (Baima and Muzuo, 57% of the NFM Tibetan population) and one
nearby PAM township (Baishuijiang NR in Gansu province) are considered Baima. The Baima were
confirmed as a Tibetan sub-group in 1979. The total Baima population in the area is slightly over 10,000
individuals with approximately half of them living in the project area and the other half living in
Jiuzhaigou county and outside the project area. The Baima language has 37% lexical similarity with
Tibetan. The Baima Tibetans in the project area have basic to good fluency in spoken Chinese, sometimes
both Sichuanese and standard Chinese. However, illiteracy remains prevalent in all areas. Only 10% of the
households are literate in written Chinese in Shibazi village, Songpan county.
Livelihood Activities & Land Use. Farming systems in the project area have long been based on cropping
on valley floors, winter pasture at mid elevation and summer pasture at higher elevations. Cropping
systems include the full range of traditional crops. Naked barley (qingke) is an important staple food in
16



Songpan county. Grazing pressure has increased due to higher numbers of yaks in villages with summer
pastures and the development of goat raising at lower elevations. There is a growing issue of fodder deficit
during winter ends. Prohibition of traditional pasture management with fire has also reduced grass
availability in early spring.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. Most Tibetans in Song-pan believe in Bon-po Tibetan Buddhism (i.e.,
Buddhism blended with polytheism), and the Baima Tibetans are polytheists. There are holy mountains in
Songpan and Pingwu. Farmers in Mouni township worship mountain gods. Logging was culturally
strongly opposed by local people in Songpan. The Bairna Tibetan protect forest areas at the rear of their
villages where lives a mountain god. Furthermore, there are 19 Tibetan Buddhist monasteries with 1,042
monks and nuns in Songpan county. Three monasteries are in the two NFM townships. Most Tibetans in
NW Yunnan are Gelugpa Tibetan Buddhists. In Baimaxueshan NR, 20 to 40% of households have at least
one member serving as a monk in a monastery. The participation of monasteries has contributed
enormously to the management of the nature reserve. Tibetans in the project area, particularly the Baima
Tibetans who value white colour and animals, have a tradition of protecting pandas.
Measures Being Taken to Ensure Cultural/Location Specific Appropriateness..
*  Land Use Planning. Balanced land use between forest and grazing, particularly of yaks, is of critical
importance.
*  Forest Zoning and Management. The following would be taken into account: (i) Religious activity
sites would be fully respected and protected; (ii) The monasteries located within the project areas
would be important stakeholders to help promote sustainable forestry management since there is a
religious practice to preserve the forests and mountains.
*  Communication. In Songpan County and in Baimaxueshan NR, NFM and PAM communication
would occur in both Chinese and Tibetan languages. and when appropriate, drawings and pictorials
would be used.
*  Gender. Separate training courses will be organised for women in Songpan county, Sichuan province.
Teachers would carry out functional literacy classes in the winter.
*  Equity. Social differentiation is high in all project villages. This creates the opportunity to organise
specialist skill training for the more educated. Conversely the project must pay attention to include the
more vulnerable groups including the poor.
6.3    Qiang
Location and Population. The Qiang are a Tibeto-Burman group located in the cold and arid Minjiang
valley in Western Sichuan. There are approximately 198.000 Qiang people according to the latest census.
Approximately 80% of the Qiang people reside in SFDP counties (Songpan, Pingwu, Beichuan and 81,000
people in Maoxian), and all will be targeted through NFMI and PAM informnation dissemination activities.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. Sichuanese is widely spoken and standard Chinese widely
understood. There are approximately only 80,000 Qiang speakers left according to the 1990 census. The
northern dialect is spoken in the project area. In some project villages, children do not speak the Tibeto-
Burman Qiang language anymore, while Qiang remains the main language in Maoxian county. The Qiang
in Songpan county communicate with ethnic Tibetans in the Tibetan language.
Livelihood Activities & Land Use. Cropping systems are shifting from diversified mountain agriculture to
producing crops exchanged for staple food on the market and pig feed (plastic mulch maize at lower
elevations, broad beans at higher ones). In Songpan county, Sichuan province, animal raising is limited to
1-2 pigs per household and cows rearing in approximately 50% of the households. The promotion of cut-
17



and-carry fodder under land conversion will be beneficial to livestock development. Seasonal
employment in urban areas is important in Beichuan, but not in the Songpan project townships.
Measures Being Taken to Ensure Cultural/Location Specific Appropriateness.
*  Forest Zoning. Rural communities have strong religious values related to forest protection. Influence
of Tibetan Buddhism is high among the Qiang. The Qiang in Xinxiang township, Songpan, are
Tibetan Buddhists, other communities are polytheists or Tibetan Buddhists. For example, in 1998, the
Qiang people in Da'erbian village, Xiaoxing township in Songpan county tried to stop the SFE from
cutting trees on village mountains.
* Forest management. The Qiang in Songpan county have rich indigenous knowledge in forestry, e.g.,
in natural re-growth management;
* Preservation of homesteads. Traditional housing is built with stone walls in lower elevations, but with
wooden walls at higher elevations in the project area. Sustainable regimes for construction are
needed. Preserving the beautiful, diversified housing styles is an important future asset in community-
based tourism development, which Tibetan and Qiang villages in Songpan would be facing during
project implementation.
6.4    Tujia
Location and Population. The Tujia people live in the Wuling mountains at the meeting point of Sichuan
province, Hubei province, Hunan province (Xiangxi prefecture, 1.8 Million people) and NE Guizhou
province (Tongren prefecture, with approximately 1 million Tuhia people), with a total population of 5.7
Million (1990 census). The Tujia population increased by 101% between 1982 and 1990, which indicates
that this is one of the nationalities in China that are gaining members in addition to population growth.
There are ethnic autonomous Tujia and Miao areas in Hunan province (Xiangxi prefecture) and in
Guizhou province (Yanhe and Yinjiang counties) and Sichuan province.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. Spoken and written Chinese are in use reportedly since the Ming
dynasty. Only 200,000 speakers of the Lolo Tibeto-Burman Tujia languages remained in 1982.
Measures Being Taken to Ensure Cultural/Location Specific Appropriateness..
* Forest Zoning and Management. The Tuj'ia are mainly Taoists (90% in Hupingshan NR). There are
also well-known Buddhist temples in the Fanjingshan NR Tujia region. Temples in the project areas
will be invited as co-management stakeholders. The Tujia have traditional wooden houses and have
important construction timber needs to maintain them. Most Tujia in Hupingshan NR have a tradition
of planting fruit trees or other trees in winter and spring. Traditional knowledge in fire prevention is
also recognised.
* Biodiversity Protection. Some of the men and most of the women in Hupingshan NR do not kill or
hurt animals. Moreover, ancient trees are protected. These cultural practices would be built upon in
designing project activities.
6.5   Miao
Location and Population Numbers. The Miao in China spread over a large area from southem Yunnan
province up to Hubei province in the North. The 1.6 Million Miao people in Hunan province account for
one third of ethnic minority people in the province and mainly reside in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao
autonomous prefecture and Huaihua prefecture. The NFM project area has a few Miao villages in
18



Yongshun county, but the potential dissemination area includes the whole mixed Tujia and Miao region in
the Wuling mountains (Hunan, Guizhou and Sichuan). Fanjingshan NR in Guizhou has a substantial Miao
population. The 60,000 Miao people in Hainan generally reside in Miao natural villages within Li areas in
Li and Miao autonomous counties. The project area only includes 2 Miao natural villages (for PAM and
PE components). The larger number of Miao residing in the project area are those in the four PE counties
in Northwest Hunan province, where more than 10,000 Miao people are expected to become project
beneficiaries.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Miao language is a rnixed Miao-Yao language with various
branches which are generally not mutually understood. The Xiangxi Miao are largely Red Miaos. The
Sichuan, Guizhou and Hunan parts of the Wuling mountains speak different languages. Illiteracy is
widespread. A roman script has been developed but is not widely used. Fluency in Chinese among the
Miao is generally higher in Hunan and Hainan provinces than in south-western Chinese provinces.
Land Use & Livelihood Activities. Due to historical reasons, the Miao people tend to occupy less-favoured
environments. These include upper parts of watersheds, limestone ranges with little farmland and drinking
water resources, and locations remote from roads. This is the case in the NFM project area. The largely-
maize based farming systems are adapted to these constraints.
Measures Being Taken to Ensure Cultural/Location Specific Appropriateness.
*  Forest zoning will be respectful of religions activities. The Miao are polytheist, Christian.
*  Forest management. The Miao have rich indigenous knowledge in agro-forestry, e.g., with Chinese fir.
They often preserve or plant tree belts around their villages.
*  Targeting. In mixed Tujia and Miao areas, the project will pay attention to fully include the Miao
communities.
6.6    Yao
Location & Population. There are 2.12 million people of Yao minority nationality in China according to
the 1990 Census. The Yao people are widely spread from Yunnan province to Hunan province. Some
460,000 people reside in southeast and southwest Hunan province. The NFM project area in Yanling
county, Hunan, is the northern most limit of the Yao region. While the NFM forest site does not
specifically cover Yao villages, the dissemination of project results will be relevant for the whole mixed
Han/Yao area. One PE county in Hunan province contains Yao people.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Yao language belongs to the Miao-Yao language family.
However the 1 Million Yao in Southern Hunan and Guangdong reportedly speak a Chinese language that
is very close to standard Chinese. Illiteracy is prevalent.
Livelihood. The Yao people have a rich indigenous knowledge of forest management and agro-forestry.
The Yao people generally live in marginal conditions and farm on small hillside crops. Illiteracy is
prevalent among their community.
Religious Belief. The Yao in the NFM project area practice Taoism and Buddhism.
6.7    She
19



Location & Population. There are 630,000 people belonging to the She minority nationality in China
(1990 Census). Approximately 45% of them live in Fujian Province, a south-eastern coastal province.
Only a few isolated communities of She people live within the SFDP project area, specifically in Yanling
County. Proficiency in spoken and written Chinese is common. Today, there are approximately only 1,000
individuals who speak their original language that belongs to the Miao-Yao family.
Land Use and Livelihood Activities. The She people are upland agriculturalists.
Religious Belief. Taoism.
6.8    Lisu
Location & Population. The total Lisu population in China was 575,000 in 1990 and 626,000 in 1996. The
Lisu live in the upper reaches of the Salween and Mekong rivers, with 97% of them living in Yunnan
Province and the remaining in Sichuan province. 231,600 Lisu live in Nujiang Lisu autonomous prefecture
in which the Nujiang nature reserve and SFDP project site is located, and 95,468 in Diqing Tibetan
autonomous prefecture in which Baimaxuejiang nature reserve is located. There are approximatively
12,900 Lisu people living inside or around Nujiang nature reserve, and 22.500 Lisu people living inside or
around Baimaxuejiang nature reserve. In addition, ethnic Lisu live in Sichuan province, Thailand and
Burma.
Language & Literacy. . The Lisu speak a Tibeto-Burman Lolo language with a roman script. There are
several different dialects in Nujiang. The SA revealed that younger males and females in project villages
tend to understand some basic Chinese, but only a few young men speak proficiently.
Religious Beliefs. According to the results of household interviews and informal discussions with villagers,
in Nayidou village, a minority believe in Christianity, in Zhulida village, less than half believed in
Christianity, while almost all the Lisu living in Qiada village practiced Christianity. A simple church was
found in two of these villages.
Living Conditions. Lisu villages are mostly found in elevations between 1,000 and 3,000 meters above sea
level. A natural village is composed of approximately 10-30 households which usually belong to the same
family group. There are four principal types of Lisu houses found in the project area: those made from
Bamboo; those made from timber; dwellings with earthen and stone walls and a stone board roof, and the
most popular, a bamboo house with a straw roof.
Livelihood Activities. Lisu villages are mostly found in elevations between 1,000 and 3,000 meters above
sea level in Nujiang. In Nujiang, a natural village is composed of approximately 10-30 households which
usually belong to the same family group. The main productive activities of the Lisu people inhabiting the
adjacent areas of the nature reserves are upland farming, animal husbandry, hunting and collecting NTFPs.
The most common crops found in Lisu areas were maize, upland rice, paddy and buckwheat. In Nujiang,
three types of agricultural lands were found to exist: hillside crop land, shifting cultivation land and paddy
fields. Among them, hillside farmning activities take place on 70-80% of the available crop land.
According to PRA surveys in three villages and secondary village data very few Lisu farmers can produce
enough grains for their own needs. The majority of farmers in these areas, especially those people living in
high and cold areas. Tree crops include walnut and lacquer trees for self-consumption of oil. There is some
temporary migration for off-farm work in Baimaxueshan.
Forest Uses & Local Culture. Forest resources play an important role in Lisu people's life. (1) During
periods of grain shortage, Lisu people often collect edible plants from the forest to meet family needs. The
20



edible plants include younger shoots, flowers, roots, and fruits. The local people call April to August
"collecting months". (2) Sales of NTFPs are the main cash income sources including collecting different
kinds of wild edible mushroom, Chinese medicines and wild vegetables. (3) Timber is cut for fuelwood
and house construction. Lisu houses in Nujiang are mostly made of bamboo with thatched roofs. In
Baimaxueshan, houses are mostly made from spruce and fir planks, which requires large quantities of
timber (2 cubic meters for the roof). According to the results of household interviews and informal
discussions with villagers, some to all village members are Christians. A simple church was found in two
villages surveyed. The Lisu people are also polytheist, and they have divine mountains where timber
harvest is strictly prohibited.
6.9    Nu
Location & Population. The Nu minorityethnic group is mainly distributed throughout Nujiang prefecture,
Yunnan Province. According to 1995 population statistics, the total population of Nu people is about
27,000. One fourth of them reside in four townships of Gongshan Dulong and Nu autonomous county
within the Nujiang PAM protected area. They live in mountainous areas at elevations between 1,500-2,000
meters above the sea level. A small number live along the Nujiang river.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. In 1994, the Nu minority ethnic group had 9,000 speakers of the
Nusu language and 5,500 speakers of the Drung language, two Tibeto-Burman languages. Education is
poor and literacy is low. The Nujiang nature reserve staff has reported the existence of a roman script. The
SA reveals that only a few males can speak Chinese while women and the older generation do not
understand Chinese. The Nu people in Nujiang nature reserve live either in purely Nu villages or in mixed
Nu and Lisu villages. Approximately 20-30 households of the same clan make up a natural village.
Land Use and Livelihoods. The main land use types are paddy fields, hillside cultivation, and land used for
shifting cultivation. Fallows are enriched with Alnus nepalensis. Crops include maize, nrce, buckwheat,
potatoes, naked barley, sorghum and beans. Tree crops include tung, walnut, lacquer, tea and citrus trees.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. The forest is used by the Nu people for collection of wild edible
mushroom collection, medicinal plants and wild vegetables, their main source of cash income, and
livestock grazing. The most common housing style is with long timber stilts.
6.10  Dulong
Location & Population. There were approximately 5,800 people in the Dulong (or Drung) nationality in
China in the 1990 census. They all reside within four townships in the Gongshan Dulong and Nu
autonomous county within the Nujiang PAM project area. Ninety-eight percent live along the Dulong
river. Only a few Dulong settlements are found along the Nujiang river. All 3,702 people in Dulongjiang
township are Dulong.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Dulong river dialect of the Drung language, a Tibeto-Burman
language, is spoken by the Dulong people in Gongshan county.
Land Use and Livelihoods. Most Dulong villages are located in sloping areas with a size of 20-30
households per natural village. The Dulong people mostly engage in shifting cultivation. Fallows are
traditionally enriched with Alnus nepalensis. Collecting NTFPs, hunting and fishing are important
household activities. Cash income from these activities is extremely limited and only covers salt, oil and
clothes.
6.11. Bai
21



Location & Population. There are 1.6 Million people in the Bai nationality in China according to the 1990
census. They reside in NW Yunnan between the upper Mekong and upper Yangtze nvers, and in the Dali
Bai autonomous prefecture. The Bai people account for 25% of the population living within or around the
Nujiang nature reserve, Yunnan province. Approximatively 8,100 people reside in 5 townships of the
reserve.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The number of speakers of the Bai language, a Tibeto-Burman
language, was estimated to be 900,000 in 1990. The Naxi language has borrowed heavily from Chinese. A
roman scnpt has been developed. There is an old Bai scnrpt dating from around the 8th century based on
Chinese characters.
Land Use and Livelihoods. Diversified upland agriculture and animal raising.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. Religious beliefs among the Bai include polytheism, Buddhism and
Daoism, and some of them are Christian.
6.12. Naxi
Location & Population. There are 278,000 people in the Naxi nationality in China according to the 1990
census. Seventy-two percent reside in Lijiiang Naxi Autonomous County. northwestern Yunnan, 8% are
scattered through 8 other NW Yunnan counties, 7% live in 3 counties in Sichuan, and the remaining live
in Tibet. Within the project area, very small numbers of Naxi people reside in 3 townships of Nujiang
nature reserve (34 people) and in 4 townships of Baimaxueshan nature reserve.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Naxi language, a Tibeto-Burman language of the Yi/Lolo
branch, is in use and the dialects are fairly unified. A roman script has been developed. The use of the
ideographic 'Dongba' writing system is limited to reciting classic texts. The Naxi people resent the older
denomination for their group, 'Moso'. The Naxi are one of the nationalities in China that have a
sophisticated elite.
Land Use and Livelihoods. Diversified upland agriculture and animal raising.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. Religious beliefs among the Naxi include Tibetan Buddhism and Daoism,
and some of them are Christian.
6.13. Pumi
Location & Population. The Pumi nationality in China is limited to 24,000 people according to the 1990
census. Within the project area, Pumi people only account for a small proportion of the population in one
village in Pantiange township, Baimaxueshan nature reserve.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. There were 54,000 speakers of the Pumi Northern and Southern
Pumi languages in 1994 (Tibeto-Burman languages of the Qiang branch), including the Pumi themselves
and 30,000 speakers in the Tibetan nationality.
Land Use and Livelihoods. Diversified upland agriculture.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. The Pumi practice Tibetan Buddhism.
22



6.14. Yi
Location & Population. There are 6.6 Million people in the Yi nationality in China according to the 1990
census, located throughout Yunnan province, where they are the most populous ethnic group with 4
Million people, in SW Sichuan and in NW Guizhou. Within the project area, only a few Yi individuals
reside in Baimaxueshan nature reserve, mostly in Tacheng township.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Yi categorv is a diverse one, consisting of a variety of peoples
distinguished by language, culture, and degree of integration with mainstream Han society. The official
nationality includes at least 6 languages of the Tibeto-Burman family (Eastern, Central, Southem,
Western, Southeastern and Northern, and possibly 20. Intelligibility between dialects is reportedly low. A
written scnpt has been developed. The SA has not specified whether the Yi in Baimaxueshan are Northern
Yi ('Nuosu'), who are less integrated in the mainstream society, not bilingual and live at higher elevations,
or Western Yi ('Lalu'), who are well integrated, often live at lower elevations and do not want to be
mistaken for Nuosu people.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. Shifting cultivation was prevalent in upland areas until recently. The Yi
are polytheists.
6.15. Dong
Location & Population. There are 2.5 Million people in the Dong nationality in China according to the
1990 census. They are located at the meeting point between Northem Guangxi, SE Guizhou and SW
Hunan. Within the project area, Dong people reside in only one township of Fanjingshan nature reserve,
Taiping, in Guizhou province.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. All members of the Dong nationality are speakers of the Dong
language, with 62% speaking Southern Dong and 38% Northern Dong. These languages have reportedly
49% lexical similarity with the Northern Zhuang language. The Dong language has as an official script.
Land Use and Livelihoods. Paddy farming, tree crops (tung, oil tea). The traditional way of life and well-
known architecture is relatively undisturbed, particularly for the Southem Dong. The southern Dong areas
are receiving increasing numbers of tourists.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. Forestry is an important livelihood activity. The Dong are polytheists.
6.16. Hui
Location & Population. The 1990 census reported that there are a total of 17.6 million members of the ten
mainly Muslim nationalities in China, with the Hui numbering 8.6 million, representing a 20 percent
increase over 1982 figures. The Hui are the third largest minority nationality in China, the most numerous
of the ten Muslim nationalities, and the most widespread nationality in the country. Urban Hui
communities are found in 97% of counties in China. Within the project area, in addition to these urban
communities, some 1,500 rural Hui people reside nearbv each of the five PAM nature reserves of Sichuan
province, where they account for up to 37% of township population. Approximatively 800 Hui people
could be project beneficiaries in two PE counties in Henan province. Gansu, the project province with
overall the largest Hui population, has no Hui people residing within the project areas.
23



Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Hui in China share little in common other than the practice of
Islam. They speak primarily the regional Chinese language used in their locality. The Hui are one of the
nationalities in China that have a sophisticated elite. Many urban Hui take government positions at local
and provincial level while others set up businesses.
Land Use and Livelihoods. The rural Hui living in remote upland areas in NW China practice diversified
agriculture and animal husbandry. They have low incomes and suffer from lack of access to education and
health. Gender issues are particularly acute.
Forest Uses and Local Culture. The Tangjiahe nature reserve staff have noticed that fuelwood
consumption by the Hui people is limited.
6.17. Mongol
Location & Population. There are 4.8 Million people in the Mongol nationality in China according to the
1990 census. Thirty percent of them live out of the Inner Mongolian Autonomous Region in NE and NW
China. Within the project area, Mongol people account for 5% of the population in three PE counties in
Liaoning provinces. Should they apply for commercial loans to plant trees, up to 600 people are expected
to be project beneficiaries.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. The Mongol language is an Altaic language of wider
communication. In addition to Chinese, the Inner Mongolian script is used and there are radio broadcasts
are in Mongolian.
6.18. Manchu
Location & Population. There are 9.8 million people in the Manchu nationality in China according to the
1990 census. They live in Heilongjiang, Jilin and Liaoning provinces. Manchu people account for 5 and
17% of the population in two PE counties in Liaoning provinces. Should they apply for commercial loans
to plant trees, up to 300 people would be project beneficiaries.
Sub-Groups, Languages and Literacy. Very few speakers of Manchu, an Altaic language, remained in
1990. Written Manchu was once in use (old Manchu script), but now written Chinese is in cornmon use. In
China, the Manchu were once thought to be completely sinicised, yet their population numbers grew from
4.3 million in 1982 to 9.8 million in 1990, with Manchu autonomous counties being re-established and
interest in Manchu culture and language leaming sweeping the country. The Manchus are one of the
nationalities in China that have a sophisticated elite.
7.0    Project Site Profiles
The project site profiles below provide a summary of key Social Assessment and PRA findings for
confirmed project sites included in the Natural Forest Management and Protected Areas Management
components of SFDP. It serves as a reference for those involved in the on-going project preparation and
later implementation to take on board the specific recommendations arising from the social assessment
and consultative process.
Each of the profiles of townships falling under the NFM component include (i) an overview of the typical
livelihood patterns of people (mostly ethnic minorities) inhabiting the project site area; (ii) an Ethnic
Minority Profile describing the extent to which each ethnic minority inhabits the project area; (iii) an
24



overview of how populations use natural resources, particularly the forests, for subsistence, cornmercial
and other cultural purposes; (iv) the problems faced by these populations and (v) opportunities that exist
for them under the project. Profiles for the following project sites are presented below:
* Hainan: Wangxia township and Bawangling SFE
* Hunan: Ceyuan and Shidou townships, Yanling county; Xiaoxi and Zhenxi townships, Yongshun
county
* Sichuan: Longdong and Yongfu townships and Jiajinshan SFE, Baoxing county; Baima and Muzuo
townships and Pingwu SFE, Pingwu county; Mouni township, Songpan county; Xiaoxing township
and Songpa SFE, Songpan county
Profiles of all 13 Nature Reserves (NR) included in the Protected Areas Management component of the
project include (i) A brief overview of the Nature Reserve; (ii) an Ethnic Minority Profile describing the
extent to which each ethnic minority inhabits the project area; (iii) Impacts on ethnic minority households
as a result of the nature reserve and project activities; (iv) Key threats to the nature reserve as discovered
through the Social Assessment and PRA process; (v) Risks as a result of the project that would possibly
impact populations, and a description of community needs as discovered through the SA process; and, (vi)
opportunities as a result of project activities. Profiles of the following nature reserves by province are
presented below:
*  Gansu:    Baishuijiang NR
*  Guizhou: Fanjingshan NR
*  Hainan:   Jianfengling NR
*  Hubei:    Houhe NR
*  Hunan:    Badagongshan NR; Hupingshan NR
*  Sichuan:  Baiyang NR; Piankou NR; Si'er NR; Tangjiahe NR; Xiaozhaizigou NR
*  Yunnan:   Nujiang NR; Baimaxueshan NR
7.1    Wangxia Township & Bawangling SFE, Hainan Province
25



Overview. Wangxia is a 100% Li township, the closest to Bawangling. Some 3,500 people live in 5
villages. The impact of the logging ban and hill closure has been reportedly important. Income per capita
decreased by 30% to Y 660 in 1999. This is the lowest township average income in Hainan. There are few
paddy fields, maize on rainfed slopes, supplementary shifting cultivation of upland rice (0.8 T/ha), only 1-
3 garden trees/household, and some off-farm employment in the county mune and in services. Bawangling
is one of the three large SFEs in Hainan, under Hainan forestry bureau. Logging incomes have started to
decrease in the 1980s. Diversification into pine resin, rubber, tropical fruit, hydropower has taken place in
the 1990s. Among the 2,800-people enterprise population, many have sought urban jobs, but SFE has a
job creation policy from further diversification. There is a small nature reserve in the SFE but tourism is
not developing quickly.
Ethnic Profile. There are approximately 686 SFDP project households of which 100% are of the Li ethnic
nationality. They have no written language.
Forest Uses. Supplementary shifting cultivation for food and feed production is practised by 100% of
households in the more remote Hongshui and Dayan villages, where the PRA has been carried out, and is
rather residual in other villages. This had been tolerated in the past but the ban is now being enforced.
Enforcement on illegal trade (bonzais, timber, wildlife) remains weak. Cattle graze in the forest. Basket
weaving from bamboo and rattan collected in the forest is now a main source of cash income. Other more
minor uses are collection of fuelwood, medicinal herbs. palm leaves for roofing, and timber for modem
housing beams. Past involvement in logging sector was limited after 1970s. Villages closer to SFE sold
food products to enterprise population. This has stopped with the 1980s logging sector decline. A few
villagers were forest guards for SFE.
Livelihood Patterns. Intensification of farming systems requires development of rainfed agriculture on
the milder slopes, of tree crops on the steeper slopes, and development of pig and cattle raising. There is
unclear and possibly limited potential for rubber and some other tree crops on slopes due to poor soils and
low rainfall, but land use rights are the biggest issue on slopes. Households need individual long-term land
contracts to develop sustainable activities on the rainfed farmland, but land use rights have remained
collective. Land renting or contracting by outsiders for tree planting or hill closure is encouraged by
provincial policies. Demarcation of sloped land belonging to individual villager groups is unclear, leading
to some conflicts among villages. SFE management staff may seek to contract land from the communities,
and agrobusinesses are developing mango plantations in the nearby Qixia township. Livestock
development is hampered by disease problems. Farmers also want to improve the irrigation system but if
statistical data is correct paddy area is only 0.3 mu/capita. Furthermore the SFE reservoir is siltated, paddy
soils are sandy. Drought in 98 and 99 and water releases from the new SFE hydropower station have made
the problem worse. Improved water management is a prerequisite to infrastructure upgrading.
Opportunities. Natural forest co-management could concentrate on overall improved land use planning,
specifying lands allocated to grazing outside and within the SFE, to fuelwood collection, and to individual
households for cash crops, tree crops and agroforestry. Demarcation of natural village boundaries should
be made clear. Allocation of land should be reserved to households within the community, with attention
to equity. A women-centred program for training and microcredit can help develop pig and cattle raising,
and some tree and cash crops. The project will co-ordinate with the well-funded poverty reduction
programs. Training topics should include infrastructure maintenance, environment awareness, primary
health care, and specialist animal disease prevention skills. Drinking water should be planned in priority
among village infrastructure needs. Much of the project's added value will come from using improved
training methods adapted to the Li community, and building capacity and dialogue among the co-
management partners.
26



7.2    Cevuan, Shidou Twnshps & Yanlinz timber company, YanIing County, Hunan Province
Overview. The forest sites and adjacent communities occupy the upper half of Ceyuan and the upper
fourth of Shidou. These are mostly Han communities. Road, electricity and drinking water facilities are
fairly developed. There is no SFE but a county timber company. Two thirds of the 123 workers have
become redundant. Only Ceyuan township has been visited by the consultant team during project
preparation.
Ethnic Profile. Ceyuan holds approximately 827 project households of which only 11 households or
(0.5%) are of the Yao ethnic nationality; Shidou contains approximately 897 project households of which
1% are Yao. There is even as smaller percentage of households classified as belonging to the She ethnic
nationality.
Forest Uses. Forest is collective forest and has been entirely allocated to households in 1981 through
responsibility contracts and no reallocation has taken place since then. Land use rights on forest land are
as clear as they are in Yongshun county. Forestry accounted for 65% of farmer incomes in 1998. 84% of
households derived more than 50% of their incomes from forestry. One half of this forestry income was
coming bamboo timber and bamboo shoots collection and processing, 40% from other timber, 6% from
fuelwood sales and the remaining from collection of mushrooms and other NTFPs. The total logging ban
impact in annual incomes is 2.1 Million Y in Ceyuan township (45% for household income (78% of
former forestry income), 33% for township fiscal revenue, 16% for forestry bureau revenue, and 5% for
village collective revenue).
Livelihood Patterns. NFPP is being implemented in a way that forbids most forest uses. Animal grazing
is now forbidden in designated forest areas, although some villages such as Shangtong have substantial
grassland areas. Marketing channels for NTFPs are not well developed. Fuelwood is less and less
available, prices have gone by 150%. The bamboo plantations are ageing and need to be rehabilitated.
Village infrastructure is not adequately maintained. Agricultural production mainly consists in paddy and
sweet potatoes for self-consumption. Animal husbandry only provides 7% of farmer incomes. No training
opportunities are available for households. Most households have access to short-term credit for amounts
limited to Y500 and mainly for crop production.
Opportunities. This is the only NFP site where co-management schemes can be piloted for collective
forest in a Han community. Farmers and local government are interested in a farmer training program in
forest management. Since off-farm work in urban areas is limited, farmers, particularly poorer farmers,
want to use microcredit for diversified farming activities. These include animal production (mainly pigs
and poultry) and crop production (mainly cultivation of medicinal plants). Rural credit is already well
developed and the project added value will be in twinning credit with training and with developing a
microcredit scheme where farmers select how they want to use their loans. Farmers are also interested in
rehabilitating the bamboo plantations. A substantial number of better-off households want to invest into
small-scale processing (of bamboo, timber or medicinal plants), transportation and other services.
7.3    Xiaoxi and Zhenxi townships, Yoneshun County, Hunan Province
Overview. Xiaoxi is a small township of 992 households and all villages are in or adjacent to the forest
site. They are mostly of the Tujia ethnic minority. Two lower watershed villages from Zhenxi township
are also included. The valley can only be reached by boat from the nearby Wangcun town, a tourism
destination. Population density is only 30 people/kin2. 70% of households are registered as poor. The PRA
survey has been carried out in Xiaoxi and Dapinggang villages. Yongshun has proposed a second forest
site in Longzhai (lower watershed township, close to the county seat, more developed, with a high
27



population density) and Wanfu (upper watershed township). This second site has not been visited by the
consultant team during project preparation.
Ethnic Profile. Xiaoxi township contains approximately 772 project households of which 63% are Tujia
and less than 1% are ethnic Miao.
Forest Uses & Livelihood Patterns. Forest is collective forest and has been entirely allocated to
households through responsibility contracts. Land use rights are clear, all households have forest land
certificates issued by the county. The forest was until 1999 the main income source for 80% of
households. Logging was providing 32% of farm incomes and NTFPs 20%. The Tujia wooden houses
require large quantities of construction timber. Timber is also cut to grow mushroom on it, and some
shifting cultivation was traditionally carried out.
Problems. As in State-owned forest areas, NFPP is being implemented by prohibiting all forest uses
including fuelwood collection, the construction of wooden houses, as well as cattle and goat grazing on
forest land. Farmers are not confident in the new forest policies and a lot of logging was taking place in
May 2000. Land tenure is scattered among the households making forest management difficult. Village
infrastructure is particularly underdeveloped. Only the township seat has a road access, and electricity
supply is limited. Farner priorities for community development are to access training, to diversify farm
incomes, to build tracks to improve school access and market access, and solve the fuelwood problem.
Opportunities. The site offers an opportunity for co-management schemes between villager group
representatives and the county forestry bureau. Sustainable regimes for construction timber have not been
mentioned as an opportunity but they would help preserve the traditional Tujia construction style. Farmers
have an opportunity to set up varied income generation activities related to the development of tourism.
Agricultural income generating activities would include animal raising (mainly pigs and cattle), fruit and
nuts, medicinal plant production and cash crops. A number of households wish to obtain credit to set up
small timber, grain and feed processing operations. Training needs include crop and animal production,
processing, transportation skills, marketing and infrastructure rehabilitation. The township forestry station
provides technical support for afforestation and NTFP production.
7.4    Longdon2 and Yonifu twnshps and Jiaiinshan SFE, Baoxing Countv, Sichuan Province
Overview. This is the only Han-populated NFM project area in Sichuan. Incomes, from county to
households, have been relatively high until 1998 thanks to the logging sector. For example, some 75% of
households have TV sets. Longdong, the lower township in the SFE watershed, is the only more populated
township in the Sichuan project area with 5,700 people and 40 people/km2. Elevation in the valley is only
1,100 meters above sea level. Yongfu is in the upper watershed and only 0.5% of its total land area is
farmland. Cropping systems include maize, wheat and beans and crop production is already fairly
intensified. Farmland is increasingly intercropped with nuts and medicinal tree crops. Animal raising
consists on average in one cow and 3 pigs per household. PRA work has been carried out in Zongxing
(Longdong) and Zhongguan, Yonghe and Ruobi (Yongfu), and a development plan has been drafted for
Zhongguan. Jiajinshan SFE has a population of 2,600 who all reside in the project site. The enterprise is
investing into new calcium bicarbonate plant, and wants to train its management and workers in that field.
Workers and their households are also candidate for vocational training in all sectors.
Ethnic Profile. Of the 1379 project households in Longdong township and 443 households in Yongfu
township, less than 1% of these households are ethnic Tibetans.
Community Forest Uses. Some 25% of forest land is under household responsibility, 5% has remained
collective, and the rest is State-owned forest under the SFE. Shifting cultivation of medicinal roots has
28



been a main income source and it occupied a larger area than all other farmland. The NFPP has made this
illegal. Fuelwood for home consumption and construction timber are mentioned as a secondary problem
by both men and women (annual fuelwood consumption is around 4 tons/household), but restricted access
to timber that fuel the medicinal plant dryers is an important issue (3.5 tons were consumed per ton of
roots). The amount of other annual income loss due the logging ban is estimated to be a total 9.5 Million Y
in the two townships (4.9 million from off-farm employment, 2.9 Million Y from small-scale timber
processing, 1.7 Million from timber transportation trucks - farmers had invested into 77 trucks for that),
i.e., more than Y 5,000/household.
Problems. Problems ranked first by the rural communitv are the logging ban. the absence of maintenance
of roads and power stations by SFE, lack of drinking water facilities in Longdong, lack of information,
and the need for improved technology, both for animal husbandry and planting trees. Men rank credit
access as an important need. The development of goats and cattle requires improved grazing management.
There is a great demand for all types of village infrastructure. Villages had even started to build cement
paths before the logging ban. Priorities include roads, bridges and school rehabilitation. Health services
have deteriorated but this mainly affects the enterprise population. As in other Sichuan sites farmers want
an improved electricity network but this problem cannot be solved by the project. Wildlife damage is an
issue in Longdong.
Opportunities. NFM has an opportunity to pilot natural forest co-management in this site. There are no
language barrier, education gap or other obstacles between the SFE and the community. The land
conversion program is fully compatible with farmers' oxxn land use change strategy - cut-and-carry fodder
and agroforestry. Farmers need to keep producing medicinal herbs, but to do so in a sustainable rotation.
The forest management plan should assist with related zoning and sustainable regimes for dryer fuelwood,
and the community development with technical support. Households wish to develop cow raising, goat
raising based, and bee keeping, and need both credit and related training. Farmer entrepreneurs want to set
up taxi services and a small shop, and are also the major medicinal plant producers.
7.5    Baima and Muzuo townships, and Pinowu SFE. Pingwu Countv. Sichuan Province
Overview. The Wanglang valley is another sparsely populated project site. with a total of 795 households
in the two townships and only 3 people/km2. The upper watershed township. Baima, has the largest
population of all Baima Tibetan townships. Villages occupy the valley floor at an elevation of 1,900-
2,3 00 meters and 10% of the total land area is pasture. The lower watershed township, Muzuo, is half
Tibetan and half Han. There is little arable land in Muzuo, no high-elevation pasture and settlements are
scattered along the main valley and other gullies. The PRA surveys have covered all villages and village
development plans have been drafted for Yiwa in Baima and Heping in Muzuo. Baima is adjacent to
Wanglang nature reserve where WWF has been carrying out a natural resource planning project and has
supported a community-based tourism development plan. Pingwu forestry development company is a
county SFE that was set up after the prefecture SFE shut down logging operations in 1994. A 2,600 people
enterprise population has remained in the valley. The SFE has opened a carbonate calcium plant and hopes
to provide NFPP subsidised jobs to one third of the workers. Most workers have family with rural resident
permits in the Sichuan basin. Older staff plan to move there for retirement. and younger ones are candidate
for alternative jobs.
Ethnic Profile. Of the 306 project households in Baima township, 99% of the households are Baima
Tibetan.
Farmers' Forest Uses. Past involvement in the logging sector was important until 1994. Farmers,
particularly in Muzuo, took waged employment, and some operated small-scale processing enterprises.
Fourty-two households in Baima had purchased trucks, and many of them hold private contracts on
29



substantial areas of State-owned forest. They have now sold them to build guesthouses which they are just
starting to operate. Annual income loss from the logging ban is estimated to be 5.5 Million Y (3 Million Y
for truck owners for timber transportation, 2 Million Y for processing, and 0.5 Million Y from timber
sales). Consumption levels of fuelwood and construction timber (for homes and guesthouses) are high (6
T/year of firewood), and NTFP collection is an important income source for poorer households. Some of
the forest is collective forest under either the townships or the villager groups, and has been planted into
timber.
Problems. Problem ranking by farmers has indicated that rural electricity, lack of technical and veterinary
services, and road and bridge maintenance, are the main problems perceived. Health and education come
next, as well as drinking water, and the absence of farmner market in the valley. Two potential project risks
have been identified. First, social differentiation is high. The project needs to pay attention to working
with all farmers and both townships. For example, improved drinking water facilities should not
concentrate on guesthouses. Second, managing pastures with fires is now forbidden. The government is
promoting improved pasture management with the use of fences in Baima. However, this is likely to take
the form of contracting this common property resource to a few individuals. The project will not support
any fencing.
Opportunities. The project has two key opportunities in this site. One is to support forest management in
relation to the development of community-based tourism. Activities could focus on sustainable harvest
regimes for fuelwood and construction timber, since consumption will remain high or increase as tourism
develops. The Pingwu SFE is interested in a co-management approach. The SFE has set up co-ordination
working groups with townships and is setting up responsibility contracts. The PRAs have identified pro-
poor activities related to tourism, such as bee-keeping and honey wine-making, and diversified animal
raising (cattle, pig, chicken). The second opportunity is to co-ordinate closely with the PAM component.
Pingwu is implementing PAM in Si'er township. Baima township conmmunities require appropriate
regulations in the Wanglang experimental zone.
7.6    Mouni Township, Songpan County. Sichuan Province
Overview. Mouni township is a small valley close to the county seat. It is one of the fully Tibetan
townships in the lower Southeastern half of the county. PRA surveys have taken place in Shibazi and
Bozuo. The villages have moved down from the slopes to the valley floor in 1958. Households farm an
average 2.6 hectare on the valley floor with broad beans. naked barley, potatoes and wheat and households
are generally self-sufficient in grain. Seasonal employment in medicinal herb collecting teams in Qinghai
has declined but remains important. Slopes are fully under State forest status and comprise forest, winter
and summer pasture. Households are in the process of developing livestock. Better-off households raise
larger yak herds, poorer households have started to develop goat raising.
Ethnic Profile. Of the 246 project households, approximately 95% are ethnic Tibetan.
Forest Uses. All forest land is State-owned forest. The forest is managed by villager groups under
responsibility contracts with the county forestry bureau. Southern slopes are winter pasture and upper
slopes are summer pasture. Fuelwood and construction timber consumption levels are important.
Fuelwood cuts are now forbidden. Most households store fuelwood for 3-4 years but poorer ones do not,
and are running short of fuelwood. Mushroom, fern vegetables and medicinal herbs are collected. Farmers
have been actively involved in the logging sector until 1998. Annual income loss estimate is 2.2 Million
Y: casual waged employment (1.2 Million Y/year), 41 trucks and tractors for timber transportation (0.9
Million Y/year), 3 wood processing plants (0.1 Million Y/year). Total income is assessed to have
decreased by 60%.
30



Problems. The township has been listed one of the two national-listed tourism sites in Songpan in 1996,
but the community shares few benefits, and environmental impacts are expected. The county tourism
company has built a road, opened a fee collection gate and organises horse ride trecks. The township
govemment receives no share from the entrance fees. Horse owners are reportedly mostly from outside the
township, and a conflict over horse grazing has appeared. Only two villages in the valley derive benefits
from small shops. Pollution of the valley stream is already occurring. Private operators have tried to
contract the Buddhist monastery. ln addition, the valley faces both the general rural energy crisis and a
real overgrazing problem. The township plans further development of yak raising but carrying capacity is
already overstretched. In Shibazi village, annual fuelwood consumption is 8 T/household and only 45% of
households have purchased improved stoves. Shibazi has solved the electricity problem by securing
electricity supply with a direct line from the hydropower station. In Bozuo village conversely, 40% of
households had purchased TV sets but are selling them back due to lack of electricity. Finally, social
differentiation within communities is high. Poorer households and better-off ones have distinct livelihood
and land use improvement opportunities.
Opportunities. Four of the 5 administrative villages have only one villager group. This is an opportunity
to build up villager group capacity in forest co-management. Villager groups are already actively taking
part in the protection of State forests under responsibilitv contracts, and forest protection is closely
integrated with religious values and beliefs (see also Tibetan ethnic group profile on opportunity for
participation of monasteries). The co-management team has to address two complex problems, tourism
development and pasture management. In the short term. it might be appropriate to focus on an easier to
solve issue such as construction timber and fuelwood. However the tourism stakeholders must be invited
to attend co-management meetings at an early stage. Pro-poor activities will be included in village
development plans. These are (a) clean drinking water, (b) sustainable fuelwood and NTFP collection
regimes, (c) pig raising, and introduction of sheep as an alternative to goat raising, (d) teacher re-training
and functional literacy courses. Communities have already started to develop altemative income sources:
animal raising, NTFP sales and tree seedling nurseries. The project will lift the lirmiting factor, credit
access.
7.7    Xiaoxing township and Son2pan SFE, SonLwan Countv, Sichuan Province
Overview. The valley floor is narrow and the township basin is occupied by the SFE. The 15 natural
villages are established on shoulders above transversal gullies. Households farm only I hectare on
average. There has been a shift in cropping systems from wheat to broad beans after the logging ban since
village electrical milling machines have shut down. Slopes are mostly under State forest status and
comprise forest and some pasture patches. Villager groups have limited areas of collective forest (15% of
the county forest is collective forest). PRA surveys have taken place in Da'erbian and Aixi villages.
Songpan SFE, under Aba prefecture, was still fully involved in logging when the logging ban was set up
in 1998. Among 50 workers interviewed, only 20% have stated forest management as a training need, the
majority is seeking alternative employment within the county or back in the Sichuan basin.
Ethnic Profile. Approximately 387 project households of which 92% are Tibetan and 8% are Qiang.
31



Farmers' Forest Uses. Large quantities of fuelwood and construction timber are consumed. Fuelwood
cuts are now forbidden even in collective forest, but most households had stored fuelwood for 34 years.
Construction wood is becoming a priority issue. Some construction wood quotas will be released in 2000.
Collection of high-value mushrooms at higher elevations and wild vegetable at lower elevations have
become a major cash income sources after the logging ban. Involvement of farmers in the logging sector
has been important until 1998. Annual income loss is estimated to be 2.6 Million Y (casual waged
employment, 0.6 Million Y/year and timber transportation by truck, 2 Million Y/year). The SFE also
stopped issuing forest guard allowances. Total income is assessed to have decreased by 71% after 1998.
Problems. The SFE hydropower that used to provide free rural electricity has not been maintained after
1994. Villages only have regular electricity supply 2 months a year and have to pay for it. Households had
started to buy farm processing machinery and TV sets that they cannot use. They also lack skills in
electricity maintenance. Households cite health as their main problem after the lack of electricity and
timber construction timber. A complete ban on fuelwood and construction wood has been set up.
Conversely NTFPs are intensively harvested without any regulation. Land conversion plans will be
difficult to implement since farmland is already limited.
Opportunities. NFM has the opportunity in Xiaoxing to use the Qiang farmers' rich indigenous
knowledge in the management of natural forest stands. A farmer stated: 'trees are like men, when they
become old they need to give place to the younger ones'. Forestry training will be jointly organised for
SFE and farmers. Specialist skill training needs also include teacher and health worker training, animal
disease prevention, training in electricity and mechanics. Forest planning should seek improved planning
of both forest and pasture. Pro-poor activities identified in village development plans are similar to those
in Mouni. They include (a) clean drinking water, (b) sustainable fuelwood and NTFP collection regimes,
(c) pig raising, and introduction of sheep as an alternative to goat raising, and (d) functional literacy
courses. Finally, some community members have built assets (e.g., trucks) from their involvement in
logging sector. They now wish to invest them into alternative enterprises. Several households may wish to
pool their microcredit resources to do so. Conversely, attention to actual participation of poorer
households is required.
7.8    Baishuiiianp- Nature Reserve - Gansu Province
Overview. Baishuijiang nature reserve is one of the three national panda reserves directly under the
supervision of the State Forestry Administration (SFA). Baishuijiang nature reserve covers 2,137 km2, of
which 973 km2 is core (state-owned forest) and 1,164 kM2 has been zoned experimental (mostly collective
forests). Baishuijiang lies within two counties, Wen and Wudu. Fifteen townships have at least some of
their areas within the nature reserve's experimental area. Approximately 96,000 people live in the
experimental zone of Baishuijiang. In conducting the social assessment, PRA surveys were conducted in
nine locations in Wenxian county. Tielou township includes 2,078 Baima Tibetans (89% of township
population). No other ethnic minority populations reside in or on the periphery of the nature reserve.
Threats. Threats to the biodiversity of Baishuijiang come from a variety of places within the reserve.
Spatially, the main threats come from Tielou and Dapingshan. Other locations of concem are Pandixia
(Pandi township) and along the border with Sichuan province and its Tangjiahe nature reserve. Key threats
and conflicts affecting biodiversity include logging for fuelwood, illegal logging in the collective forests,
poaching, and NTFP collection. The results of the social assessment indicated how uses of natural
resources by rich, middle income, and poorer households are different and impact on the nature reserve.
The biggest threat comes from middle income households, because fewer members of their families
migrate for employment. Therefore, they have more labor in the household for utilization of natural
resources for economic activities and are more dependent on income from natural resources than from
labor.
32



Ethnic Profile. Tielou township includes 2,078 Baima Tibetans (89% of township population). No other
ethnic minority populations reside in or on the peripherv of the nature reserve.
Project Impacts
*  Project activities will generally have positive impacts on the nature reserve and its communities.
Community-based nature conservation sub-component focuses on developing co-management in two
villages, providing extension training for the cultivation of higher value added forest products, training
comnmunity committees and households on financial management and project management, thereby
increasing the capacity of village institutions towards sustainability, and supporting energy
conservation, specifically reducing the demand for fuelwood and working with better fuelwood and
forest management. Additionally, Baishuijiang and Tangjiahe are being supported under the PAM to
establish a joint planning process in order to deal with common threats and management issues.
*  In revising the management plan under the PAM component, zoning for the nature reserve may
change. A possible buffer zone may be added contiguous to the core zone. Buffer zones can be used
for research and observation and all other activities are not allowed. Any addition of a buffer zone
would cut into the collective forests of the experimental zone. As a result, people would be losing
rights to sustainably harvest products from these collective forests. Because of the size of
Baishuijiang, any proposed buffer zone could affect substantial numbers of people.
Opportunities. As in Tangjiahe. a unique opportunity exists for co-ordination and collaboration between
the Tangjiahe and Baishuijiang nature reserves and their respective provincial offices. Funds are being
provided to both nature reserves for annual collaborative planning workshops concerning common threats.
7.9    Faniin2shan Nature Reserve- Guizhou
Overview. Fanjingshan nature reserve covers 419 square kilometers in Guizhou province. The core area
of the nature reserve is 246 square kilometers and the remaining area is divided between the experimental
zone (133 km2) and tourism zone (40 kIn2). State-owned forests occupy 300 km2 and collective forests 33
km2 of the experimental zone. In the tourism zone, 78% of the land is state-owned. The tourism zone is a
small zone running east and west and dividing the core north and south. No extensions to the nature
reserve or major zoning changes are expected.
Fanjingshan nature reserve defines its project impact zone to include 7 townships and 25 administrative
villages. The population of this area is 13,417 people.
Ethnic Profile. Ethnic minority households comprise 68% of the households. The main ethnic minority
groups are Tujia, Miao, and Dong. The percentage of poor households ranges from 22% in Taiping
township to 49% in Wuluo township. Average income ranges from 520 yuanlcapita/year to 750
yuan/capita/year over the area.
Threats. Fanjingshan faces many threats and conflicts from local government and communities. Nature
reserve staff discovered during the social assessment that more threats come from communities outside but
near to the reserve than from communities located inside its boundaries. The threats to Fanjingshan are
severe and they mainly result from charcoal production. logging on the border or illegally inside the nature
reserve, mining, collection of NTFPs, firewood cutting and collection, trapping and hunting of wildlife,
and fire. Overall, there is a great demand for natural resources in the area, with a large impact on the
nature reserve. For example, to produce the 800 kilograms of charcoal needed by the average family, over
2 mu of land is required. Fanjingshan staff estimate that almost 16,000 tons of firewood is required each
year to meet each household demand from residents in or near the nature reserve.
33



Impacts. Eight villages were surveyed using PRA during the social assessment. Impacts from the CBNC
sub-component of SFDP, as determined by the Fanjingshan social assessment team, include:
1. Improved institutional capacity of local communities. Due to the co-management activities to be
supported by SFDP, village committees will be strengthened and capable of lasting beyond the life of
the project. They will have extensive experience managing community-based projects and community
funds and they will be able to train other village groups.
2. Community-based projects add to livelihoods. Through the co-management activities, community
funds will be established for community and household projects that improve conservation and
livelihoods. Higher value added forest products will be targeted for cultivation instead of collection.
Marketing networks and procedures will be established. Technical training will be provided for new
and promising cultivation techniques. Local government technicians will also be trained to increase
sustainability.
3. Energy conservation reduces labor demands and household expenditures. Targeted interventions will
reduce the cutting of firewood for cooking. Surveys will also identify other critical uses of wood
products for energy and prepare a strategy for identifying alternative technologies and making these
available to households in critical areas.
4. Increased protection through improved management Fanjingshan will implement a new management
plan under the Protected Areas Management (PAM) component of SFDP that will improve its
management capacity and lead to increased protection through more frequent and ardent patrolling
and more reporting and enforcement of regulations and laws. This may have consequences for people
conducting illegal activities in the nature reserve. Conflicts have been present since the early 1980s,
and it is expected that the PAM component will, through public awareness and consultation during the
management planning process, give more opportunities for residents and local government to discuss
and resolve these disputes.
Opportunities
Two unique opportunities, identified in the social assessment, could be targeted during implementation.
I . Improved tourism management and revenue sharing. The small tourism zone of Fanjingshan runs
along the road accessing the core. Conflicts exist between local government, Fanjingshan nature
reserve and local communities over the level of tounsm that should be allowed in the tourism zone
and the sharing of revenue from tourism. This issue could be tackled by the nature reserve as a form
of co-management between the nature reserve and local government and local communities. Funds
are included to establish a working group and for the development of a tourism plan that specifies
tourist levels, organizational roles of the partners, and a fair revenue sharing plan that includes local
communities in exchange for conservation or other contribution to the tourism operations.
2. Identification of technologies for higher value added forest product cultivation. To reduce the threat
to forest products in the nature reserve, the project N%ill support improvement in the delivery of
relevant forest product extension services. Training will be provided to staff, including township
technicians, and linkages to research and extension institutes will be made within China and the rest of
the east Asia region.
7.10  Jianfenf1ing Nature Reserve - Hainan
Overview. Jianfengling nature reserve was created in 1976 and expanded form 5,300 to 7,762 hectares in
March 1989. With the 1993 Hainan logging ban, Jianfengling National Forest Park was established and
included the Jianfengling nature reserve within its boundaries. In 1999, the province decided to expand the
nature reserve again to 12,391 hectares, based on the recommendations of a management plan prepared
with assistance from the Asian Development Bank. Most recently, the reserve has been expanded to cover
34



all of the northern parts of the forestry park to contain 20,170 hectares. In December 1999, this expanded
nature reserve was approved by Hainan province. This area includes plans for a 10,427 hectare core zone,
an 8,382 hectare buffer zone, and 1,316 hectares of experimental zone. All of the land within the reserve is
state-owned forest. The nature reserve falls within the jurisdiction of Ledong and Dongfang counties.
Jianfeng (southern part of nature reserve) and Jiangbian (northern edge) townships surround the nature
reserve. No communities are located inside the reserve, although there are 12 villages, four forestry farms
and one tourist enclave surrounding the reserve.
Jianfengling has defined its impact zone as a five kilometer band concentric with the nature reserve. In
that band are seven natural villages. PRA surveys for the social assessment were conducted in three
locations - Jianfeng village (Dingsi subgroup), Tumei village (Miao sub-group) and Weidong forestry
farm community. These communities are located in the southwest, northeast and southeast edges of the
nature reserve respectively.
Ethnic Profile. The project site is populated with Li (and some Miao) ethnic minorities.
Threats to the nature reserve include illegal logging, collection of NTFPs (rattan, bamboo, and medicinal
plants), slash and burn agriculture on steep slopes, firewood harvesting, and poaching wildlife.
Project Impacts. Two aspects of the project impact on the nature reserve - expansion of the nature
reserve and change in regulations governing access to forest-based products will have adverse impacts
while SFDP activities under the PAM component for community-based nature conservation activities will
have positive impacts.
1. Expansion leading to restricted access. The expansion of the Jianfengling nature reserve occurred in
1999, just prior to the start of the SFDP preparation. The change in status from a national forest park
to a nature reserve imposes some new restrictions on residents of surrounding communities. Forest
parks are developed for tourism and other business enterprises, and trees and NTFPs can be cut or
harvested, but one must have a permit from the forestry bureau. In a nature reserve core area, no
activities are allowed, except specific and very few research projects approved by SFA. In a buffer
zone, research, conservation education, and captive breeding are allowed, while in the experimental
zone, sustainable use is allowed. People who want to harvest NTFPs must still apply for a permit. At
least three comrnunities could be affected by the change in status and rules - Tumei, Weidong, and
Guojie. The area to which they will be able to collect NTFPs will be severely reduced in size, as a core
zone is currently being proposed near to their residences. The management plan, prepared during
implementation of SFDP PAM, will define the zoning of the nature reserve, in consultation with local
communities affected by the proximity of the nature reserve.
2. Establish and implement Community-based Nature Conservation. The PAM component of SFDP will
establish and implement two co-management projects in these communities. In all three of the above
mentioned communities, SFDP will introduce altemative livelihood approaches to processing NTFPs,
provide training on cultivation, processing, and marketing of their products, and introduce and install
energy conserving stoves and prepare management programs for community wood lots.
35



Risks. Minority communities in the surrounding areas have little experience or skills in planning and
implementing a community project. There is a risk that activities to be financed from the Community
Conservation Fund (CCF) of the co-management projects could be used to establish larger-scale
plantations for rattan or bananas, managed by outside parties, and hire villagers to work on the plantations.
If that were to happen, village people would not managers of community projects and community
institutions would not be empowered. To overcome this risk, extensive training will be done for village
institutions on managing community projects and a CCF. Criteria for access and use of the CCF monies
will be prepared and monitored.
7.11   Houhe Nature Reserve - Hubei Province
Overview. Houhe nature reserve is located in Wufeng county of Hubei province. Houhe spans the two
townships of Wufeng and Wantan and a state forest farm. Houhe nature reserve currently covers about
40,900 hectares. Prior to 1999, the nature reserve contained 10,340 hectares, but the boundaries of the
nature reserve were extended last year. Of the NR's 40.000 hectare area, the core zone covers 13,109
hectares, the experimental zone covers 19,253 hectares. and the buffer zone covers approximately 8,603
hectares. The reserve also hosts a small tourism zone which spans approximately 900 hectares.
Ethnic Profile. The population in and around the NR is approximately 8,035 people in 2,391 households
in 15 villages and two townships, Wufeng county. Among this population, the ethnic minority (Tujia) is
5,320 people, taking 66% of the total. Tujia people in Wufeng county, a Tujia autonomous county, have
improved their livelihoods by a big margin in the 1990s: and their net incomes achieved 1,200 yuan per
person in 1998, about 211% of what they had in 1990.
Land Use Classification in Extension. Before the 1999 extension, 71% of the land was under state-
owned tenure. With the extension, 54% of the total land is located within designated state-owned forests.
The area of community forest land has increased from 29% to 46% of the total land within the nature
reserve.
Threats to Livelihood. Fifteen villages are located in the new extension area and approximately 8,035
people live in the nature reserve. Before the logging ban, households within the nature reserve got income
from a variety of sources - logging, NTFP collection, and agriculture. Only firewood for cooking and
heating can now be cut, and all other forest activities under the logging ban are not allowed both inside
and outside the nature reserve. In the PRA surveyed households, approximately 1,000 RMB was gained
from NTFP collection and sale, but only 3 of the sampled 24 households participated in the collection of
NTFPs.
Impacts & Opportunities. Most welfare decreasing imrpacts on household livelihoods over the past year
have been a result of the logging ban and not by the extension of the nature reserves It is envisaged by the
communities that the SFDP project activities would help to provide greater opportunities for income
generation.
*  Re-Zoning. Zoning of the nature reserve will be reviewed and finalized during the preparation of the
management plan with SFDP PAM support. The re-zoning would be undertaken with the views of
minimizing social risks to minority communities in the area.
Management Planning under SFDP would emphasize enforcement of existing regulations, but
households will probably not face additional restrictions on the use of natural resources or use rights.
*  Community-Based Economic Development Activities would be introduced in five communities - two
co-management villages and three villages receiving assistance to pilot community-based wildlife
36



management schemes to reduce impacts on crop damage from wildlife. household management and
agro-forestry training, and conservation education. The impacts of these activities should increase
community skills and organizational capacity, increase opportunities for sustainable financing of
community projects through revolving loans, and decrease household crop losses.
* Community Conservation measures will reduce exploitation of natural resources, especially firewood,
and decrease the amount of firewood needed for household use by introducing sustainable fuelwood
use.
* Training and Technical Assistance will be provided in alternative livelihoods for NTFP cultivation,
marketing, and sale.
7.12  Badagongshan Nature Reserve - Hunan Projince
Overview. Badagongshan, covers parts of Wudashui, Bajiaoxi, Longtanping, Badagongshan, Hekou, and
Sifang townships in Sangzhi county. Badagongshan nature reserve covers 44, 900 ha., including a 7,000
ha. core, a 16,700 ha. experimental area, and a proposed 21,170 ha. expansion area. All of the land within
the nature reserve, except 729 ha., is under collective tenure. The proposed expansion has been approved
by Hunan province as a provincial level nature reserve, Nwith approval expected by SFA and State Council
as a national level nature reserve. The nature reserve contains 34 villages and one state forestry farm.
Ninety-three people reside in the core area.
Ethnic Profile. Total population in the current nature reserve and its proposed extension is 14,702, of
which there are 12,677 ethnic minority residents. Tujia. Miao, Hui, and Bal ethnic minorities live in the
project area and they make up 98% of the total population, with Tujia and Miao containing about 87% of
the total ethnic population, Bai comprising 12.5% and Hui less than 1%. Main sources of income, before
imposition of the logging ban in 1998, included logging, collection of NTFPs, economic trees, and
agriculture. Average per-capita annual income in villages within the nature reserve is 700 yuan, or about
425 yuan lower than that of those residents living outside. Basic infrastructure and social services are
poor. Wood is mainly used for cooking and heating, with household consumption of approximately
10,000 kilograms per year.
Impacts. Project activities would consist of co-management in two villages. energy conservation projects
conducted in four other villages, and extension and community training provided to these villages and
technicians from all of the townships. A nature reserve management plan would be completed to cover
the existing boundaries of Badagongshan, with recommendations for improved management and
protection. The proposed extension area will not be a part of the SFDP PA-M component. Wildlife
damage programs would be developed with most affected households as part of the management planning
and co-management sub-components.
1. Project activities in most forest dependent communities will introduce techniques for cultivation of
NTFPs, decreasing damage from wildlife damage to crops, increasing equitable opportunities for
revolving funds for community (as part of 2 villages co-management activities) and household
economic development, providing altematives to labor-intensive fuelwood use, and provide training
for households and village committees on farm and project management. In the six (6) most forest
dependent communities, household livelihoods will be impacted positively by project activities.
Opportunities
1. Could support natural forest management in the extension areas while supporting PAM in the existing
nature reserve area. Allows coordination and cooperation between the two components of the SFDP
and provides a demonstration for a landscape area anached to a nature reserve.
37



2. Allows working with another nature reserve entirely under collective forest tenure.
3. Project will work with communities in current experimental area and the one community in the core
zone. Allows opportunity to work with a community that will be contiguous to the core and involve
them in planning for the core and surrounding areas and how to sustainably develop their economies
without impacting on the core area.
7.13   Hupin-shan Nature Reserve - Hunan Province
Overview. Hupingshan Nature Reserve is located in Shimen county of Hunan province and covers three
administrative bureaus, Nanping, Jiangya, and Zhongling. The nature reserve contains 13,330 hectares of
core zone and 28,970 hectares of experimental zone. Thirty four administrative villages are located within
the project area, comprising a total population of 12,599 in 3,919 households. Ninety-one percent of the
total population is Tujia ethnic minority. All of the land within Hupingshan, including the core area is
collective forest, but managed under nature reserve according to county, provincial, and national nature
reserve management and protection laws and regulations. Average per capita income is 900 Y/year.
Ethnic Profile. 91% Tujia ethnic minonty
Impacts.
I . Households located within the nature reserve have been impacted by hill closure and reforestation
policies under the NFPP initiated by Shimen county in October 1998. Most households got substantial
income from logging and collection of mushrooms and other NTFPs prior to the logging ban (1,000 to
1,500 yuan per household combined).
2. Potential rezoning under the management plan might move the core area. However, residents,
especially in Jinbanshan and Dalingshan villages, might actually see a easing of restrictions, as their
current land under core zoning would become experimental zones.
3. Project activities, co-management in two villages, Wildlife compensation demonstrations, energy
conservation, and community technical and management training, would improve the socioeconomic
situation of villages most severely affected by the logging ban and other restrictions under nature
reserve regulations. These project activities directly target problems, needs, and conflicts raised
during social assessment PRA surveys.
Risks. (1) Core zone could be rezoned under management plan to better cover valuable low land forests.
This would affect use rights in collective forests. However, it is anticipated that land currently zoned core
could actually be returned to experimental, collective land to the benefit of residents of the reserve; (2)
poor transportation and communication for the potential co-management communities. They want and
need roads to improve their marketing potential and to easily bring in required inputs. However, the nature
reserve will not consider roads into these communities as they are concerned of the consequences of
opening up the areas for easy exploitation. Without roads, products have to be unique and of high value, or
the communities have to be able to process raw products for value added before they are carried out.
Opportunities
1. Township and nature reserve local government are essentially the same. The director and deputy
director of the nature reserve fill the same positions in the township. Therefore, training of the director
and deputy director of the nature reserve means that you are also training the leadership of the
township on conservation, sustainable development, and co-management.
2. Shimen county government seems committed to the nature reserve's issues and the villages and
townships within the nature reserve's core area. County has funds that can be used for co-financing of
community-based programs.
38



3. At least one of the potential co-management sites has shown community initiative in building a labor-
based road. with savings from the community's tax revenues. The road was stopped by the nature
reserve after two years of construction, but Dalingcun constructed 2.5 kilometers of road by hand.
This is the kind of community cooperation that is necessary for co-management and community
conservation fund.
4. Communities within Hupingshan nature reserve still control all the land within their boundaries as
community collective forest land. This includes land within their boundaries that is in the core zone and
the experimental zone.
7.14   Baivan2 Nature Reserve, Sichuan Province
Overview. The nature reserve, totaling 58,300 ha, is north of Xiaozhaizigou nature reserve and bordered
on the east by Piankou and Si'er. Baiyang was established as a nature reserve in 1993. All land within
Baiyang is State-owned forest and no communities reside inside the nature reserve. Six townships
surround the nature reserve, and the nature reserve surveyed five villages felt to more severely impact the
resource conservation situation. These villages are Banbianjie (Qiang) and Wujieliang (Qiang),
Shangnami (Tibetan), Ruoerzhai (Tibetan), and Zhengping (Qiang). Another six villages also surround the
reserve, but their impact on the nature reserve is far less severe. The main community threats to the nature
reserve come from grazing in the reserve, collection of NTFPs, poaching, fuelwood harvesting, ponies
trekking into the core, and fire. Conversely, most of these communities have been very reliant on forest
products, with up to 65% of their income coming from grazing, 10-20% from NTFPs, and 30% from
logging. In the collective forests outside the nature reserve, people can cut wood for house construction
and collect firewood (must now legally apply for a permit) and NTFPs, but they cannot log since the 1998
NFPP was initiated in Sichuan. Community needs, for example as identified in Shangnami village, include
lack of employment opportunities, drinking water shortages, difficulties in getting credit, lack of
electricity, and no medical facilities.
Ethnic Profile. Several different ethnic minority groups inhabit this area such as Qiang in Banbianjie,
Wujieliang, and Zhengping villages and Tibetan in Shangnami and Ruoerzhai villages.
Impacts. SFDP activities in Baiyang are similar to that in the rest of the Sichuan complex. Baiyang, Si'er,
Piankou, and Xiaozhaizigou will complete one management plan, with separate action plans for the
project. Each will improve patrolling, renovate guard posts, purchase equipment and conduct community-
based nature conservation (CBNC) activities. As part of the CBNC sub-component, co-management will
be conducted in two villages, energy conservation will be demonstrated in another three villages, and
community extension and skills training will be completed. These activities reflect the needs of both the
nature reserve for improved management and the communities' identified problems.
Impacts of project activities on communities include:
1. Restriction on use rights. Grazing of livestock is likely to be an issue, as up 65% of income in the
Qiang and Tibetan communities comes from grazing and grazing, even though technically illegal, is
often done in the nature reserve. Customary rights to grazing are unclear in communities surveyed for
the social assessment.
2. Conflicts overfuelwood use. Households consume approximately 10 tons of firewood each year from
the experimental area near the core. Conflicts exist and will continue to grow between communities
and the nature reserve over firewood.
Opportunities
1. Co-management in Baiyang should focus on solving the conflicts over grazing areas and management
of livestock. During project implementation, further PRA work will be needed in these grazing
dependent communities to determine the extent of customary grazing rights.
39



2. Firewood management and energy conservation is a second area in which the project can assist
communities. PAM activities will assist in energy conservation.
3. Coordination of community conflict resolution between Baiyang and its neighbors, Xiaozhaizigou,
Si'er, and Piankou remains critical. CBNC needs to guarantee that no gaps exist in cntical coverage of
communities affecting these reserves. This will require Provincial ONR coordination with county
governments. Further community PRA surveys will be necessary during project implementation to
insure that all affected communities have been surveyed, impacts of project activities determined and
most severe conflicts dealt with under CBNC activities.
7.15   Piankou Nature Reserve - Sichuan Province
Overview. Piankou nature reserve, located in Beichuan county covers 19,900 hectares. There are no
people living in Piankou, but four townships, Piankou, Baini, Kaiping, and Xiaoba surround the reserve.
Although these townships have a combined population of 30,000 people, the nature reserve has identified
four critical villages to include in the social assessment because of their immediate impact.
Ethnic Profile. The four villages above, Sanjin, Muopan. Shangkou, and Xiaoyuan contain 410
households, with a population of 1466. Qiang, Tibetan, and Hui ethnic minorities together make up 85%
of the total population. Qiang comprise 95% of the ethnic minority population
Threats. Like the other Sichuan complex reserves, main threats from communities include wildlife
poaching, collection of wild herbs and medicinal plants, and overuse of firewood from expenmental areas.
All of the land in Piankou nature reserve is state-owned, regardless of whether it is in the core or
experimental areas.
Impacts
1. Impact on socioeconomic status. Project activities will improve access to community funds, support
better community organization and management, introduce and demonstrate alternatives to collection
of NTFPs, and reduce labor and money spent on fuelwood. Energy conservation will be targeted to
households and communities with greater needs or which pose greater threats to the nature reserve.
2. Restriction on use rights. Collection of wild plants, even though technically illegal, is often done in the
nature reserve. Increased management will impact income adversely, depending on the level of
income derived from these sources. Consistent with other Sichuan reserves, estimate that 10-20% of
total household income comes from these NTFPs, with poorer households maybe having higher
percentages, as they are possibly more reliant on collection activities than wealthier households.
Opportunities
1. Co-management in Piankou should consider conflicts over wild plant collections and firewood
management.
2. Firewood management and energy conservation is a second area in which the project can assist
communities.
3. Coordination of community conflict resolution between Piankou and its neighbors, Xiaozhaizigou,
Si'er, and Baiyang remains critical. SFDP CBNC needs to guarantee that no gaps exist in critical
coverage of communities affecting these reserves. This will require Provincial ONR coordination
with county governments.
7.16   Si'er Nature Reserve, Sichuan Province
40



Overview. Si'er nature reserve covers 19,000 hectares and is located adjacent to Baiyang and Piankou
reserves. The nature reserve adjoins to three townships - Huya, Si'er, and Tuchen. These three townships
contain 9531 people in 2353 households, distributed in 17 administrative illages. . Si'er nature reserve
and provincial staff chose four villages to survey during the social assessment - Chafang (22% ethnic
minonty), Hufeng (18% ethnic minority), Shangyou (73% ethnic minority), and Gaoshanbao (100% ethnic
minority). These villages were selected using the criteria recommended in the PAM Social Assessment
Guidelines (February 2000). From the social assessment PRAs, poaching and fuelwood collection are the
main threats to the nature reserve. Conflicts are high between three of the villages and Si'er nature reserve
over grazing, especially in Chafeng.
Ethnic Profile. Tibetan, Qiang, and Hui ethnic minorities live in the project area
Impacts. From the social assessment, and based on activities expected under the Community-based
Nature Conservation (CBNC) sub-component, the followving four impacts were identified:
1. Restricted access to natural resources. Some economic activities could be further restricted by
increased protection. Main issue will concern grazing and access to pastures within the nature reserve.
Already nature reserve regulations do not allow grazing inside the nature reserve on state-owned land
and these activities are illegal. However, people do graze livestock there and increased patrolling,
improved protection, and possibly improved enforcement under a revised management plan may
adversely impact people.
2. Increased community capacity and skills. Co-management process will increase capacity of village
institutions and provide training to village households on farm management, marketing, and
diversification of economic activities. This should increase capacity of villages and households to
sustainably manage CCF and natural resources management and protection after SFDP.
3. More sustained use of natural resources. SFDP will introduce energy conserving technologies into
demonstration communities. These technologies will reduce amount of firewood used per household,
which reduces household labor for the cutting and collection of firewood - labor that can be used on
other household economic endeavors. The CBNC sub-component also supports development of
firewood management plans for long-term use of community forests.
4. Dissension over project benefits. Within co-management villages, mechanisms will be established for
equitable opportunities to participate in project activities, especially regarding access to CCF.
However, only two co-management sites will be supported in Si'er and other communities further
away from the nature reserve or with less severe threats to the nature reserve may feel resentment of
not be included. Proposed mitigation: target other CBNC sub-component activities to other villages
and to township technicians. For example, extension of technical skills, provision of training, and
provision of energy saving technologies will be supported in other demonstration communities. SFDP
will support Si'er (and the other project nature reserves) to establish a county-level management group
(Leading Group) that will provide linkage to other government programs in support of the nature
reserve's community work with all of the communities impacting on the reserve or being impacted by
nature reserve management.
Risks. One principle risk was identified during the PRA process.
1. Rights to grazing. Current nature reserve regulations prohibit the grazing of livestock on state-owned
land within the nature reserve. According to the Si'er Social Assessment, Qiang and Tibetan herders
have had traditional rights to these grazing areas and still graze there. These rights have been
previously restricted by establishment of the nature reserve. SFDP will support the strengthening of
nature reserve management, and the nature reserve and contiguous communities will conflict over
different desires for managing the upland pastures.
41



Opportunities.
1.    Solve key issues. Project activities should focus on one critical issue or conflict in each of the two
co-management villages. Further PRA surveys will clarify key issues, but from the social
assessment work, grazing would seem to be the main issue to resolve under the Community
Resource Management Plans (CRMP). Mitigation proposed by SFDP: co-management activities
in two villages, which will provide forum for planning, negotiation, and conflict resolution for
joint management of grazing, including alternative sites and Community Conservation Funds
(CCF) for development of more diversified village economy, including alternative livelihoods.
2.     Target energy conservation. A major threat to Si'er is the overuse of firewood. The CBNC sub-
component will work in five villages on energy conservation and fuelwood management.
Coordination with the SFDP Natural Forest Management Component's activities in Songpan
county, especially on planning of community forest management, is very important.
7.17   Tan2jiahe Nature Reserve, Sichuan Province
Overview. Tangjiahe nature reserve, covering about 40,000 hectares, is located in Qingchuan county.
Shortly after its establishment, Tangjiahe nature reserve has been zoned into core (24,300 hectares), buffer
(11,200 hectares), and experimental areas (4,500 hectares). No communities are located inside the nature
reserve, but the reserve and surrounding impact area involves three townships - Qingxi, Qiaolou, and
Sanguo. Four villages were selected for the social assessment PRA - Sanlong and Liangmeng (Qingxi
zhen), Hexi (Qiaolou xiang), and Minli (Sanguo xiang). These four communities combine for 2,949
people in 840 households.
Each zone of the nature reserve is managed according to national and local government regulations. No
activities are allowed in the core zone, except for research approved by national government. In the buffer
zone, research is allowed, while in the experimental zone, tourism, research, education, wildlife breeding,
and other sustainable uses of natural resources are allowed.
Ethnic Profile. In Hexi and Minli, Hui ethnic minority households make up 36% and 16% of the
population respectively.
Livelihood. The percentage of households classified as poor ranges from 5% in Minli to 59% in Sanlong.
From an analysis of income sources conducted for the PRA survey, it appears that Hui household income
(for wealthier households) is approximately 13% lower than that of households in neighboring Han
villages. Because of the diverse nature of the Hui household economy, much less fuelwood is used than in
Han households (300400 kg/household/year compared to 5,000-6,000 kg/household/year). Hui people in
Tangjiahe appear to be involved more in trading, with about 25% of their income derived from this source.
Crop cultivation and animal husbandry contribute over 70% of farmers' income, while income from
forestry represents a relatively small. More economic trees have been grown over the last few years,
especially magnolia, walnuts, gingko and some eucommia alimodes, but income from these has been
limited so far to small amounts from walnuts.
Threats. Major threats to the nature reserve from communities includes poaching, overuse of NTFPs,
illegal logging, fuelwood collection, and fire. The social assessment concluded that villages face a
number of problems, but one of the most serious is the general degradation of natural resources. They also
suffer from damage to crops from wildlife and as with the overwhelming number of rural communities
near China's protected areas, do not receive compensation for crop losses from local government.
42



Impacts. SFDP activities will have generally a positive impact on project communities. Co-management
will be conducted in two villages and energy conservation and technical extension and village skills
enhancement will occur in several demonstration communities. A preliminary management program was
prepared during preparation of SFDP and it appears that the boundaries of the nature reserve and its
intemal zones will not change. Therefore, no new restrictions will be placed on livelihoods from zoning.
Increased protection should not adversely affect livelihoods, since it appears from the social assessment
that people in surrounding communities are less reliant on NTFPs that rural households in the other
Sichuan project nature reserves. Community institutions in the two co-management communities will be
strengthened and they should be able to manage and sustain community funds by the end of the project.
Opportunities. Tangjiahe nature reserve is contiguous with Baishuijiang nature reserve of Gansu
province. They share common boundary along the provincial border and face threats from some of the
same communities. The opportunity exists for cooperation through coordination of community-based
programs. SFDP will support these two nature reserves to plan their CBNC activities collaboratively and
to jointly monitor these activities once a year.
7.18   Xiaozhaizigou Nature Reserve. Sichuan Province
Overview. Xiaozhaizigou nature reserve is located in three townships of Qingpian, Baishi, and Badi in
Beichuan county of Sichuan province. It is bordered on the north by Songpan county and the west by Mao
county. Baiyang nature reserve is contiguous on the north. No people live within the nature reserve, but
ten villages, with an estimated population of about 5,000 people surround the reserve.
Xiaozhaizigou nature reserve was established in 1979 and at that time covered 7,691 ha. From 1979 to
1998, the reserve was bordered on the north and south by a state-owned forest farm. The land within the
original nature reserve and almost all the land in the state owned forest farm were state-owned forests. In
1998, Sichuan province initiated a logging ban in compliance with the NFPP. As a result, the state forest
farm adjacent to Xiaozhaizigou stopped operating and this 36,700 ha. area was proposed as an extension
to the original area, which is now proposed as the core. The proposed total area of Xiaozhaizigou is
44,391 ha. and this expanded area was approved as a provincial-level nature reserve in April 2000.
The Sichuan provincial and Xiaozhaizigou nature reserve social assessment team conducted PRA surveys
in four villages on the eastern side of the reserve - Shangwu, Zhenghe, Chawan, and Qixing. These
villages were selected because of their proximity to the reserve, especially its core, and their impact on the
nature reserve or its impact on the communities.
Ethnic Profile. Qiang comprise about 89% of the population and there are two Tibetan communities on
adjacent to the northwest border of reserve in Songpan county.
Impacts. Project activities under the SFDP PAM will strengthen the management of the nature reserve
through preparation and implementation of a management plan. The management plan will contain
provisions for two co-management villages, community conservation education programs, energy
conservation projects, and extension training and demonstrations on alternative livelihoods as well as
community training on project and economic management. The management plan will recommend and
implement measures for improved management in the extension area. Impacts of these project activities
are:
1. Restriction on previous natural resources use rights. The proposed extension area is under state-
owned forest except for approximately 200 hectares of collective grazing land in the middle of the
southern extension area. Collective rights to the grazing belong to Shangwu village. Since a number
of people from Shangwu still graze in that area and yet have been compensated for loss of those rights,
43



they could lose rights to the area under a revised management plan. Other use rights of the extended
nature reserve will not be lost under the project, as forest dependent households and communities were
restricted access previously under provisions of the 1998 NFPP. Firewood is cut from collective
forests and there does not seem to be a shortage in these four communities. No other community on
the eastern boundary of the nature reserve has previously unresolved use rights that will be affected by
project activities.
2. Impact on socioeconomic status. Project activities will improve access to community funds, support
better community organization and management, introduce and demonstrate alternatives to collection
of NTFPs, and reduce labor and money spent on fuelwood. Energy conservation will be targeted to
households and communities with greater needs or which pose greater threats to the nature reserve.
Risks.
1. Due to extension. SFDP did not establish the extended boundary of the nature reserve. Sichuan
province approved the transfer of this state-owned land from forestry enterprise to nature reserve
status, starting as long ago as 1998 and approving this transfer in April 2000. However, there remain
a several households with rights to collective grazing within the new extended area of Xiaozhaizigou
and the management plan prepared under SFDP will propose improved nature reserve management
actions for that area of the reserve. This impact must be mitigated.
2. Due to grazing. Grazing on collective lands threatens improved management of nature reserve
programs, many because livestock are not closely supervised and roam into state-owned land. This
causes conflicts with nature reserve staff and management.
3. Gaps in PR4A/social assessment survey. During discussions with provincial social assessment staff, it
became apparent that communities on the northwest border of Xiaozhaizigou (southwest corner of
Baiyang) had not been surveyed by either nature reserve. These Tibetan communities threaten the
core of Xiaozhaizigou with their use of resources. During project implementation, Sichuan province
should identify key communities that may have been missed in the social assessment sampling and
reprioritize all communities within a regional landscape of the four contiguous reserves
(Xiaozhaizigou, Baiyang, Piankou, and Si'er) for further PRA surveys and for identification of the
eight co-management villages to be included in the Sichuan SFDP PAM component.
Opportunities.
1. During discussion with provincial and nature reserve staff and based upon surveys conducted in
Shangwu, co-management activities will focus on resolving the grazing conflicts. It has proposed to
work with Shangwu to develop a joint management scheme for the collective grazing of their
livestock without restricting total access to the area. The co-management activities in Shangwu will
prepare sustainable grazing within the collective area and identify livelihood alternatives for the
community.
2. WWF has developed and delivered a community conservation education program in Shangwu and
planned to expand its ICDP program into the community. Cooperation has been discussed with WWF
and the design of the Shangwu co-management project will account for shared technical assistance
and community funds.
7.19   Nuiiang Nature Reserve - Yunnan Province
Overview. Nujiang nature reserve is located in the Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan
province. The nature reserve covers a total area of 281,090 hectares in the southern portions of Lisu and
Fugong counties and the northern portion of Gongshan county. The core of the reserve covers 121,000
hectares, the experimental zone 17,266 hectares, and the buffer zone covers 142,600 hectares. In 1996,
Gongshan county agreed to convert 94,000 hectares of collective forest into nature reserve. Nujiang nature
44



reserve borders on Myanmar and it is located in the transition zone between the Qinghai-Tibet plateau and
the Hengduan mountain system. The elevation of the nature reserve ranges from 1,160 meters to 5,128
meters.
Ethnic Profile. Over 33,000 people in the nature reserve and its impact zone, of which 27,000 minority
people, mostly Bai, Lisu, Nu, Dulong, Ding Tibetan, and Naxi, live in or influence the nature reserve.
These people are scattered over eight townships, one ciry, 30 administrative villages, and 205 natural
villages. Household income in 1999 ranged from 1,039 yuan to over 6,000 yuan. Most households are
dependent on forest products and agriculture. Grazing is important in the household economy. Firewood
is the main source of energy.
Project Impacts. Project impacts are estimated here from two sources - Social Assessment compiled by
Yunnan Province for SFDP but based on previous research work and secondary data and from information
compiled from other sources, mostly The Nature Conservancy (TNC) in Kunming and results of village
surveys conducted by the Rural Development Research Center of the Yunnan Institute of Geography.
Main issues and threats to the nature reserve include (i) firewood collection; (ii) overuse of NTFPs; (iii)
destruction of vegetation and habitat due to shifting cultivation; (iv) threat of fire from slash and burn; (v)
livestock grazing in the nature reserve; (vi) hunting/poaching.
Conflicts between villages, local government, and nature reserve include:
1. Loss of rights to use resources in the nature reserve. May be previously held grazing nghts that have
become part of nature reserve.
2. Loss of crops due to wildlife destruction, and
3. Desire to have roads and more convenient communication systems.
Opportunities.
Nujiang nature reserve staff have recently recognized the importance of working more collaboratively
with communities on solving conflicts. The Yunnan Institute of Geography has recently demonstrated
information gained from community surveys can be useful in solving conflicts. Therefore, Nujiang staff
are very receptive to developing a community-based approach. Communitv-based Nature Conservation
(CBNC) activities under SFDP PAM are consistent
7.20   Baimaxueshan NR, Yunnan Province
Overview. Baimaxueshan nature reserve covers 2,764 square kilometers, of which 974 square kilometers
is designated as the core zone (35% of the total) and 1,790 square kilometers (or 65 % of the total area)
consists of the experimental zone. Baimaxueshan NR lies in two counties, Deqin County (which contains
2,121 km2 of the reserve) and Weixi County (which holds 643 km2 of the reserve).
There are approximately 13 administrative villages in the experimental zone with a population of 12,463
people. Of the people inhabiting the NR, 7,474 are Tibetan (accounting for 63% of the total population in
the experimental area), and 4,989 are Lisu (accounting for approximately 36 %). In addition, there are a
small number of other minority nationalities.
During the SA process, PRA surveys were conducted in five natural villages, three of which are in the
reserve area and two are adjacent to the reserve. The SA targeted villages that contained mostly Tibetan
and Lisu minority nationalities.
45



Ethnic Profile. Approximately 12,463 people (2,354 households) live in the experimental area of the
reserve, of which 7,474 are Tibetan and 4,989 are Lisu. The area immediately adjacent to the reserve is
heavily populated where the 13 townships cover 47 administrative villages in which 73,339 people live.
Approximately, 43% are Tibetan (31,713 people) and 30% are Lisu (22,193 people).
Threats. The reserve itself faces many threats from communities located both inside and outside its
demarcated boundaries. Moreover, communities living in the experimental area and most closely situated
to the core are face additional conflict with populations from outside the reserve area who extract natural
resources and poach wildlife. Some of the key threats imposed by communities to the reserve itself include
fuelwood collection (the only fuel resource for local people in this area and the easy fuel for local
brickyards), illegal logging in the reserve area, poaching and trapping of wildlife, overgrazing in the
traditional pastureland that has been demarcated as reserve area, collection of rare plants, and fire. The
SA revealed that there is naturally a heavy dependence on the forest areas for local livelihood.
Project Impacts. Project activities could adversely impact local community life in the near term. This
would be a result of enforcing pre-existing restrictions on the use of natural resources in the reserve area.
In this way, it may be the case that some traditional ways of living and some traditional production
patterns would be influenced. For example, the nature of cooking may be changed by switching from less
sustainable sources to more sustainable energy saving stoves and bio-gas; changes to livestock rearing
from free-grazing to contained fenced breeding; and slash-and-bum cultivation would be replaced by more
sustainable small scale farming methods.
Opportunities. Project activities would be open and available to all members of the village in an equal
and transparent manner. The SA revealed that proposed project activities would generally produce
positive impacts for local ethnic communities. The SA has identified the priorities of communities and
would introduce livelihood opportunities for them such as the development of economic tree crops, fruit
processing, livestock breeding, and technical training and extension for other production activities. Co-
management activities would also train households in financial management and project management so
as to build up and increase capacity of village institutions towards sustainability. In order to reduce
pressure on the demand for fuelwood, the project would introduce energy conservation initiatives (i.e.
methane-generating pits and fuel saving stoves), a priority identified by minority nationalities in this
reserve.
46



8.0    SFDP Development Activities Supporting Ethnic Minorities
This section outlines (a) the activities that are built into the project as a whole, and not exclusively
designed for ethnic minorities but which facilitate participation of ethnic minorities, whose benefits are
extended to all inhabitants in the Project area; and (b) those activities that are exclusively designed to
support the participation of ethnic minorities in the project.
8.1 General Project Features, Facilitating Ethnic Minority Participation
(a) Consultation, Information Dissemination & Awareness Raising (All Three Components)
An extensive information campaign is scheduled to be carried out in all communities participating in the
Project, organized by PMC, and carried out through the Provincial PMOs. This is in addition to the on-
going consultative process being carried out under the Social Assessment, and the three stage information
campaign followed during the project preparation process. The following procedure would continue to be
followed: (i) All project villages would be visited by project staff, and meetings would be arranged in each
village to explain the project's objectives, goals and activities; (ii) All information would be provided to
both women and men, and in some cases separately. Written and spoken communication would occur in
the native language of the locality; (iii) The information campaign would also focus on the possible
obligations/risks of those participating in the project. In the PE component of the project, potential
beneficiaries would be asked to apply to be included in the project only after several informational
meetings.
(b) Training, Capacity Building in Support of Project Implementation (All Three Components)
The proposed project's training program is designed both to support implementation of project activities
and also to improve the capacity of all reserve staff for routine nature reserve management. Management
planning and community-based nature conservation (the sub-component supporting ethnic minority
development) in demonstration villages would provide intensive learning opportunities for selected staff in
nature reserves and ONRs. The project would also develop skills and knowledge at all levels of staff in the
project reserves. Newly-recruited and existing reserve staff would participate in an integrated program of
eight in-service training courses designed to cover different job responsibilities. The training would be
organized locally by local Training Co-ordinators and would be delivered by local expert trainers who
themselves would be trained under the project.
The specific training program designed to build local capacity to develop project activities can be found in
the GEF Project Brief (for the PAM component) and the EU Project Brief (for the NFM component).
8.2 Specific Support for Ethnic Minority Participation in the Project
This section describes the specific support for ethnic minorities designed into the (a) Protected Areas
Management and (b) the Natural Forest Management components of the project. Approximately 150,000
ethnic minority households would directly benefit from project activities in these two components.
(a) PAM Component's Community-Based Forest Conservation Activities
Based upon the lessons learned from a previous Bank-GEF assisted project, the Community-Based Forest
Conservation sub-component of SFDP would increase opportunities for participation of minority
communities in nature conservation and the management of natural resources with the objective of
enhancing local levels of sustainable and economically viable development. Principal activity sets include
47



(1) the preparation and implementation of co-management structures in 26 villages in 13 nature reserves;
(2) increasing target community and local government stakeholders' understanding of biodiversity
conservation and the threats it faces from their actions bv assisting nature reserves to develop and
implement a community conservation education strategy; (3) decreasing the threats from overuse of forest
resources for energy through targeted demonstrations of appropriate, practical, and cost-effective energy
conservation approaches; and (4) providing training and technical assistance for the identification and
demonstration of altemative income generating techniques as altematives to the use of critical forest
resources. Specific detail on each activity is provided below.
(a]) Co-management. The primary objective of the co-management process is to link biodiversity
conservation with sustainable income generation. The project would provide support for (a) the
establishment of provincial and local govemment organizational structures for the development of co-
management activities in nature reserves; (b) PRA surveys to determine community threats to and impacts
on biodiversity while identifying community problems related to forest resource use and natural resources
conflicts; (c) the strengthening of village institutions to prepare and implement community resource
management plans; and (d) Community Conservation Funds for implementing conmmunity-based
conservation and sustainable livelihood projects.
(a2) Community conservation education and public awareness. Project funds would be provided for
developing and implementing conservation education and public awareness programs. Nature reserves and
provincial ONR community affairs staff would be trained, using technical assistance and field-based
courses, to prepare and implement community conservation education strategies and funds will be
provided for each nature reserve to implement programs outlined in their strategies within their own
communities.
(a3) Energy conservation. This activity would support an assessment of forest-based household fuel
demand and the demonstration of energy saving technologies appropriate to local needs and conditions
that are cost-effective and practical. Funds would be provided for nature reserve staff to conduct nature
reserve energy surveys as part of community PRA. Energy efficient technologies would be demonstrated
for households in the co-management communities and other representative communities surrounding the
nature reserve.
(a4) Improving the delivery of sustainable technologies and enhancing community skills. Coordinated
with this sub-component's community conservation education and public awareness activities, training of
both township technicians and rural households in specialized cultivation techniques for medicinal plants,
fungi, and other forest products would be supported. Sources of techniques and trainers would be
identified and appropriate courses implemented. Specific demonstrations in both the project's co-
management villages and other representative communities would be provided. Training courses for
improving the capacity of households and village committees to manage community projects or household
economic activities would be developed and delivered in the co-management villages and other selected
demonstration communities.
(b)    NFM Component's Community Development & Re-employment Activities
The Community Development sub-component of the NFM component would be available to all people in
the Project townships and villages (40 % of which are individuals belonging to one of the recognized
ethnic minority groups) to improve their livelihood and to develop land use practices that are
environmentally sustainable. The sub-component is intended to assist villagers in the project areas whom
are generally exposed to poverty according to poverty standards and have been economically
disadvantaged as a result of the logging ban. Project activities consist of (i) assisting ethnic minorities to
develop economic opportunities that were environmentally sustainable; (ii) developing rural public
48



infrastructure to facilitate economic activity; and (iii) encouraging the active participation of ethnic
minorities in planning and implementing specific project activities such as a micro-credit program. A
second set of activities designed to retrain unemployed forestry workers would benefit members of ethnic
minority nationalities. (iv) Approximately 4% of all forestry enterprise workers belong to one of the
recognized ethnic minority groups and would directly benefit under retraining activities. The specific
training programs would be developed during implementation of the project.
(bl) Village Development Plans, including Specific Technical Assistance . Village development plans
would be developed through a participatory process. These plans will be short documents with (a) a draft
map showing boundaries of villager groups and of forest management unit, and existing and proposed
infrastructure, (b) basic population data per villager group and basic agriculture data, (c) menu of
microcredit options, prioritisation of training needs and infrastructure, (d) estimate numbers of
participating households for each activities. Because of the importance of livestock for ethnic minorities in
general, and specifically in Tibetan communities in Sichuan project areas, an animal carrying capacitv
studv shall be conducted in the Project areas in that province. Each county bureau would follow its
existing methodology to establish fodder balances based on updated data obtained from each Project
village. These would include current status and reconmmended fodder development. Results of the studies
will be incorporated into the Project strategies towards the animal husbandry sector. Moreover, a rural
energy technical assistance study for Sichuan sites would be undertaken and the appropriate
fuelwood conservation measures would be taken (i.e. providing fuel efficient stoves, etc).
(b2) Small Village Infrastructure. County Project offices will organize the construction of community
drinking water systems, and construction or upgrading of village schools, and the feasibility studies for
township-to-village roads and village paths and bridges. Infrastructure needs specific to Hainan include
upgrading and expanding an irrigation system. Locations, quantities and possible other types of
infrastructure will be further specified when establishing village development plans. The Project will not
fund the rehabilitation of degraded roads and electricity networks but will commission studies to analyze
the rural energy sector in Sichuan, with a focus on electricity and on fuelwood balance, and assess the
feasibility of road and bridge infrastructure development and rehabilitation under the supervision of the
Project and within the concept of NFM. County Project offices will carefully organize technical design
and carry out quality control and monitonng to ensure quality of all works. They will transfer ownership
of the works to communities and train them in maintenance. Investments in schools or health stations will
be coupled with sending school teachers or village health workers to existing retraining courses.
(b3) Small Household Loans. The microcredit schemes will be adjusted to the financial needs of mountain
rural communities who are predominantly ethnic minorities. Individual households will take loans from
RMB 500 to a ceiling of RMB 3,000 to develop productive activities of their choice and within the general
strategy of the Project to support environmentally beneficial economic activities. Possible activities
identified so far include animal husbandry, cultivation of small cash crops and non forest timber products,
small processing facilities, mushroom cultivation, transportation and service activities, including tourism.
Training for all participants would be an essential supplementary activity.
(b4) Household Training. Local PRAs teams have identified a range of training courses during Project
preparation. Training in forestry management and basic skill upgrading will take place in the Forest
Enterprises, partly in the framework of the tasks to be implemented under the above activities in SFM,
including substantial field work and data collection, RIL methodologies and monitoring. A number of
trainees will benefit from vocational courses in county towns and other cities, enabling them to find
employment outside the SFE and the sector. Both forestry and local vocational training courses will also
be open to selected interested farrners. The Project will not carry out courses in tourism in Sichuan or in
commercial plantations in Hainan as the involvement of workers in these activities may create conflict
over resource use with local communities. In Hainan and Baoxing, re-training for workers transferred to
49



new activities undertaken by the forestry enterprise itself would not be part of the programme since NFPP
is already providing financial support.
9.0    Participation of Ethnic Minority Nationalities in SFDP Preparation & Implementation
The social assessment has documented (i) the approximate number and type of ethnic minority nationality
in each of the project counties, townships and villages; (ii) described their livelihood opportunities; (iii)
described the potential threats to their livelihood as a result of the project; and (iv) summarized possible
opportunities the people themselves saw to generate higher incomes through project activities, including
more sustainable livelihood options. This specific investigation has been undertaken to ensure that
minority ethnic groups received equitable access to the project.
The SFDP project materials describe in detail the site selection process agreed to between the Bank and
the Government. Ethnic minorities have generally been included in the project in a fair manner following
the selection criteria. However, not all ethnic minority counties, townships and villages whom were
consulted would be included in the project. Some ethnic minority areas were excluded from the project
since they fell short of the selection criteria of the project. However, in this process, some minority areas
which should have been included were initially dropped. This section briefly documents some key
locations with significant ethnic minority groups that were either dropped as a result of (i) not satisfying
the selection critenra; or (ii) inadvertently dropped and as a result of the SA process brought back into the
project. It also flags (iii) locations where more attention would be needed to ensure the inclusion of ethnic
minontles.
9.1    SFDP Preparation
Natural Forest Management. (1) Boaxing County, Sichuan province, contains one Tibetan township. This
township, however, was not included as a SFDP project site since the township is not located adjacent to
the natural forest management unit. Moreover, it is already deriving economic benefits from tourism; (2)
In identifying potential project sites, Yongshun County (Hunan province) excluded upper watershed
villages from the NFM co-management unit. This resulted in the non-participation of ethnic Miao people.
The social assessment process, however, identified that the selection process agreed upon was not
followed. As a result, a re-examination of the selection criteria and a re-selection led to 6 Miao villages
with approximately 520 households being introduced into the project.
Protected Area Management. In this component, one of the selection criteria states the importance of
including villages representing ethnic minorities. The preparation teams suggests that in Hunan and
Guizhou nature reserves, more attention be paid to include a fair number of Miao villages under the
project during the first step in implementation when specific project villages are identified.
Plantation Establishment. The social assessment process documents the numbers of ethnic minority
people in project counties. Community Forestry Assessments (CFAs) identify the number of ethnic
minorities in project townships and villages, and among loan applicants in all autonomous counties or
counties located in autonomous prefectures. As this component is financed purely by an EBRD loan, it is
not expected that many minority groups will be interested in participating in this component of the project.
Participation in this component is voluntary and based on an agreed criteria including among others, the
ability to repay the loan and the availability of land suitable for commercial plantation establishment.
9.2    Recommendations for Implementation
50



Since most project areas are located within autonomous ethnic minority areas, few problems of
participation in the project institutions are expected. However, the following actions to be taken would
ensure maximum participation of members of ethnic minority groups:
Ethnic Minority Representation
* In autonomous counties and prefectures, the ethnic minority commission (ethnic minority and religion
bureau) would have a representative as a member of the project's County Leading Group.
* An appropriate proportion of the full-time project staff would be from the local ethnic minority
group(s) representative of the project site.
* Sociologists/Anthropologists from one of the well regarded Social Science Institutes and trained in
Hainan and in Western Sichuan would serve as short-term technical assistants to help counties design
culturally appropriate household training and co-management arrangements.
* The PRA teams trained during the project preparation process would be retained for project
implementation.
* The SA reveals that ethnic communities have a great deal of respect for their elected administrative
village head and natural village head. Therefore, these elected village officials would play an
important role in the implementation of the project.
Language & Communication
* Communication tools would be adapted to specific ethnic minority/community needs
* All information leaflets and training materials would be disseminated using the most basic Chinese
language.
* Leaflets will include pictorials where appropriate (i.e. Li ethnic areas)
* In Songpan county (Sichuan) NFM and PAM written and spoken communication would be Chinese
and Tibetan languages.
* In Hainan, spoken communication would take place in Hainanese, and in the presence of a Li
facilitator.
Involvement of Religious Stakeholders
* There are 19 Buddhist monasteries in Songpan county, Sichuan (as well as 11 mosques and one Taoist
temple, and several Taoist temples in the Tujia areas, particularly in Fanjingshan NR. Religious
leaders would be invited to participate in the oversight and management of NFM village micro-credit
boards and PAM Community Conservation Funds, as well as in co-management teams/forums and in
environment awareness and education. Tibetan Buddhist monks are expected to play a positive role in
the management of micro-credit schemes. Some monastenres would have access to micro-credit funds
too.
NFM Dissemination Area.
The sustainable forest management regimes piloted in 13 project townships would be disseminated to
larger areas through (i) technical exchanges, (ii) training, and (iii) workshops. These areas are largely
ethnic minority in composition. In Sichuan province, for example, focus areas would be mostly the
western half of the province where approximatey 1.1 million Tibetan and 0.2 Million Qiang people reside.
The dissemination area for Hunan may extend to most regions of collective forest in Southern China, with
a mix of Han regions and Tujia, Miao and Yao regions. The dissemination area for Hainan is the
mountainous part of the island where Li (and some Miao) comprise most or all of the rural population.
51



*  Attention would be paid to the participation of ethnic minorities in these extension areas.
*  An information and decision-making process for these areas to decide whether or not to participate in
the project's dissemination activities would take place, and institution stakeholders would be
consulted.
*  All stakeholders would participate in dissemination workshops.
*  The languages, images and gender approach adopted in the project leaflets and videos would follow
the same standards as those set in the project areas.
52



10.0  Project Design Changes As A Result of SA Process
A more participatory preparation process has enabled the project team to tailor project design to the needs
and opportunities of ethnic minority people who live in the project areas. There have been some important
adjustments made in the project design as a result of following this process. especially in (i) natural
resource management, (ii) sustainable land use, (iii) tourism development; (iv) community based
conservation schemes; (v) training; and, (vi) more equitable gender participation.
10.1   Natural Resource Management. NFM and PAMN components would take advantage of better
knowledge of the cultural values of ethnic communities in the project area. Moreover zoning and re-
zoning would be compatible with traditional demarcation of sacred forests and other sites of cultural
value. "Environment" awareness and education programs in PAM component and sustainable forestry
training designed into the NFM component would build on indigenous knowledge in these fields. These
opportunities have been incorporated into each of the project area profiles.
10.2   Balanced Land Use. Forest management plans would pay particular attention to the balance
between forestry and grazing uses of the forest land. In Sichuan, for example, the project would not
support fencing collective pasture land since the result of fencing would likely lead to a contract where
only a few individuals benefited. In Hainan, the project would not encourage transfer of tenure to
operators from outside the Li community, and any transfer should be in the form of annual land renting
and not long-term contracting.
10.3   Tourism Development. The project would seek opportunities to support approaches to tourism
development that can be beneficial to ethnic minorities. This is particularly appropriate for the Tibetan
populations in Songpan County. Co-management schemes would become an appropriate venue for
communities to engage in tourism. Moreover, household training in tourism would provide advice on how
to avoid the negative social and cultural impacts that are often generated by the development of mass
tourism in ethnic minority areas.
10.4   Gender. The project would encourage activities that provide greater benefits for women, and
particularly poorer women. Such activities include possible development of drinking water facilities,
access to education and health facilities, small animal raising and sustainable NTFP production. Gender-
oriented approaches are needed in communities where w omen have a distinctly lower social status. Both
NFM and PAM components would organise specific training courses, particularly functional literacy
classes, for Tibetan women, and women-centred micro-credit in Hainan. Training courses on gender
analysis would be delivered based on the FAO gender in natural resources management cirriculum.
10.5   Conflict Resolution Mechanism. Critical communities, defined according to criteria prepared and
used in the management planning process, will get priority for project activities. Other communities, either
less impacted or exerting less pressure on nature reserve natural resources, may not be able to participate.
The risk of conflicts arising between communities or between townships, nature reserves and villages is
probable and must be dealt with through local government and the appropnrate leading group. A
mechanism for resolution of any conflicts, disputes and grievances that might arise would be put in place.
The Management Forums would adjudicate potential conflicts at the village level. If resolution is not
possible at the village level, the Management Forums can seek advice from the county-level Leading
Groups, who are charged with overseeing the co-management process.
10.6 Policy Framework. This would apply to the NFM and PE components since they may lead
to community approved land and other asset acquisition. This Framework states that individual
households' land and other assets acquired by collectives for the purpose of project activities (i.e.
53



the building of small scale infrastructure, etc.) would be compensated in accordance with the
provisions outlined in the framework.
10.7 Process Framework. The Process Framework would be applied to the Protected Areas
Management component since it may lead to new restrictions on access to resources in protected
areas. The Process Framework puts into place a participatory process by which communities
jointly recommend land/resource uses restrictions and determine measures to mitigate any
significant adverse impacts due to these proposed use restrictions. A Plan of Action, which
describes the specific measures to assist persons adversely affected by the proposed restrictions,
would be submitted for approval by the World Bank during project implementation and prior to
new enforcement of restrictions of access to resources in the protected area. Location specific
plans of action would need to be prepared during project implementation.
11.0 Supervision, Monitoring & Evaluation
The direct supervision of all economic development activities in each village will come under the
responsibility of the PMO, and especially the designated official in charge of community development. In
addition, provincial and national level consultants with expertise in working in ethnic minority nationality
areas would assist in overall supervision and monitoring activities. The PMO would organize frequent
visits to the project area and would utilized specialized external agencies or hire specialists to assist in
training ethnic minonrties in economic development and conservation activities (i.e. mushroom cultivation,
etc).
Monitoring of project performance would be supervised by PMC working in collaboration with the PMOs
and nature reserves. Detailed monitoring and evaluation work plans would be prepared as soon as possible
after project commencement based on the terms of reference provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
PMC would be responsible for reporting on the progress of project activities according to an agreed
implementation timetable. Semi-annual reports would be submitted to the Bank, assessing the progress of
all activities against the targets identified in the agreed annual work plan. These reports would serve as the
basis for the World Bank supervision missions, as well as for preparation of the following year's annual
program and budget.
12.0 Estimated Budget & Financing Plan
The community development sub-components of two project components, NFM and PAM, will benefit
populations of ethnic minorities in the project area. It is estimated that approximately [EUIR 5.1 million
would go towards financing community development activities in ethnic minority areas covered by the
NFM component; Approximately $4.6 million would go towards financing community development
activities in ethnic minority areas covered by the PAM component. This represents approximately [24%]
of the total budget allotted for the NFM component of the project and [21%] of the total budget allotted for
the PAM component. These amounts reflect the cost of carrying out specific activities which will ensure
participation of ethnic minorities in the project.
54



Annex 1
Independent Assessment of Ethnic Minorities in Songpan County, Sichuan Province
Study Report on SFDP in Muni and Xiaoxing Townships of Songpan County
Gelek. ProJessor of the Research Center for Tibetan Studies of China
I      Introduction
As a Tibetan, a Tibetan studies researcher, and anthropologist living in China, I have worked as a consultant to SFDP
at the invitation of Ms. Susen Shen, Senior Ecologist of the World Bank and responsible person for SFDP. From
April 24 to May 18 of year 2000, I participated in the study mission to Songpan County Project Area in Aba Tibetan
& Qiang Ethnic Autonomous Prefecture of Sichuan Province. I was mainly involved in the aspect of social
assessment for the project.
1.1 The task and purpose of my mission are:
*   to cooperate closely with Chinese and foreign consultants in this project, to provide suggestions on issues
related to ethnic groups involved in the project, especially issues related to Tibetan history and culture,
*   to pay special attention to the impact of project implementation on the culture and livelihood of the ethnic
beneficiaries in the project area, and
*   to collect information on beneficiaries' knowledge of the project and their wish, interest, enthusiasm,
expectation and worries related to participation in the project,
so as to make sure that the implementation of this project fits local social, economic and cultural conditions.
This project is fmanced by the World Bank and some other international organizations, and is one component of
SFDP presently implemented in China. It has two focuses: 1. Protection and management of natural forests; 2.
Community development in the project areas. The main purpose of the project is to explore new ways and methods
for biodiversity conservation, eco-environment improvement and community social economic development
following the implementation of the logging ban.
1.2 This study mission can be divided into three stages:
*   April 20 to May 5 -- preparatory stage: work in Beijing independently, collect information related to the
historical and cultural background of the project area, study and analyze such information;
*   May 6 to May 9: on the basis of the preparatory stage, make field trips to the project areas in Aba Tibetan &
Qiang Ethnic Autonomous Prefecture of Sichuan Province, together with WB officials and foreign and Chinese
consultants, to collect first-hand information;
*   May 10 to 15: stay in Chengdu, check information on kev policies and regulations related to ethnic groups, sort
out and analyze field information, have interviews with relevant experts in Chengdu, discuss the outline of the
study report with WB officials and relevant experts, comnpile the abstract for the study report;
*   May 15 5o 20: compile a more detailed study report at the request of the WB, which shall include ethnic
cultural background of the project areas, apart from the field information.
II     Ethnic Cultural Background of the Project Area
The project area of SFDP has many ethnic groups, of which the Tibetan group will be my personal focus according
to my TOR.
2.1 Distribution of Tibetan people in China
According to the statistics of 1990, the total population of the Tibetan people in China is 4.593 million, 99.6% of
which is distributed in Tibet, Sichuan, Gansu, Yunnan and Qinghai.
Distribution of Tibetan People in China (year 1990)
Province/au I Tibet   Sichuan    Qinghai    Gansu      Yunnan     Total      Country
55



tonomous                                                                    total
region
Population  2096718   1087758    912160     367006     11335      4s574977  4593072
%           45.6      23.7       19.9       8.0        2.4       99.9       100.0
Source: China Population YearBook
Apart from Tibet, Sichuan is the province with the largest population of Tibetan people. According to the tradition
and cultural characteristics of the Tibetan people, Tibetan populated areas are normally divided into three regions: U-
Tsang, Kham and Amdo. The region with Lasa as its center (including Lasa, Rikaze and Linzhi, etc.) is called U-
Tsang. The Tibetan people living in this region are called Tsang-pa, speaking Lasa dialect of Tibetan language.
Changdu Prefecture of Tibet, Ganzi Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Sichuan, Yushu Tibetan Autonomous
Prefecture of Qinghai and Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Yunnan together form Kham. The Tibetan
people living in Kham are called Kham-pa, speaking Kham dialect of Tibetan language. Those Tibetan people living
in Qinghai, Gansu and Sichuan Aba are called Amdo-pa, speaking Amdo dialect of Tibetan language. The Tibetan
people living in Songpan County in the project area belong to Amdo-pa.
The religion of the Tibetan people is mainly Tibetan Buddhism, which has four sects: Ge-lug-pa, meaning Yellow
Hat Sect; Nying-ma-pa, meaning Red Sect; Sa-kya-pa, meaning Variegated Sect; and Kar-gyud-pa, meaning White
Sect. There is also Bon-po, which is formed as a result of assimilation and integration with Buddhism. Bon-po is
called Black Sect in Chinese. Both Dalai Lama and Panchen Lama are Living Buddha and leaders of the Yellow Hat
Sect. The Tibetan and Qiang people in the project area mostly believe in Bon-po. Since Buddhism has deep
influence on the social life of the Tibetan people, the issue of religious belief shall not be overlooked in our project
implementation in the Tibetan region.
2.2 Ethnic groups and Tibetan people in Sichuan Province
Sichuan Province is located in west China, and is one of the provinces with the most number of ethnic groups. Apart
from Han people, there are Tibetan, Yi, Tujia, Miao, Qiang and Hui peoples etc.. According to population statistics
of 1990, the population of ethnic people in the whole province was over 3.86 million, taking up 7% of the province's
total population. The population density is 25.6 people per square kilometer. Most of the ethnic people are living in
the 57 counties of three ethnic autonomous prefectures (Ganzi Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Aba Tibetan &
Qiang Autonomous Prefecture, Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture), three ethnic autonomous counties (Ebian Yi
Autonomous County, Mabian Yi Autonomous County, Muli Tibetan Autonomous County), and seven counties
treated as ethnic autonomous counties (Jinkouhe District of Leshan City, Miyi, Yanbian and Renhe Counties of
Panzhihua City, Pingwu and Beichuan Counties of Mianyang City, Baoxing Countv of Ya'an Prefecture).
The Tibetan people in Sichuan mainly live in alpine meadow in west and northwest Sichuan, doing primarily
traditional agriculture and animal husbandry. This region is also the main forest area of Sichuan Province.
According to statistics, the area of ethnic autonomous regions in Sichuan Province takes up 62% of the province's
total land area. The natural resources are rich there, with 74.06 million mu of forest, which is 66.2% of the
province's total. The stock volume is 925 million cubic meters, or 73.9% of the province's total, being one of the
three major forest areas of China. There are also rare and precious animals such as the Giant Panda, Golden-Haired
Monkey, White-lipped Deer and Black Necked Crane; tourist sites such as Jiuzhaigou, and Huanglongsi which are
well known and have beautiful landscapes. Back in history, the Tibetan people in this region have had frequent
communication with other ethnic groups, which has enabled more assimilation and integration with other ethnic
groups, compared with Tibet. Thus, the Tibetan culture in this region are more diversified, and there have emerged
even bilingual or trilingual areas.
2.3 Ethnic groups and Tibetan people in Aba Tibetan & Qiang Autonomous Prefecture
Aba Tibetan & Qiang Autonomous Prefecture is located in northwest Sichuan and southeast limit of the Qinghai-
Tibet Plateau. It borders with Qinghai and Gansu on the north, and Mianyang Citv, Deyang City, Chengdu City,
Ya'an Prefecture and Ganzi Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture on the east, south and west. The distance from north to
south is 414km, and 360km from east to west. It has a total area of 82,700 square kilometers, and an average altitude
of over 3000m, being the high and cold area of northwest Sichuan Province.
56



The main ethnic groups in Aba Tibetan & Qiang Autonomous Prefecture are Tibetan, Qiang, Hui and Han.
According to the census of 1990, the total population of the prefecture is 765998 of which 531498 are ethnic people,
which is 68.52% of the prefecture's total population. The population of Han people is 242539, or 31.66% of the
total. Of the ethnic people, Tibetan people form the majority. the population of which is 369748, 48.27% of the total
population. Following Tibetan people is Qiang, with a population of 129445, 16.9% of the total. The population of
Hui people is 23278, taking up 3.04% of the prefecture's total population.
Population Composition of Ethnic Groups in the Counties of Aba Prefecture (1990)
county  Tibetan        Qiang           Hui             Han            others
Popul  %       popula  %       popula  %      popula  %       popula  %
ation          tion            tion           tion            tion
Prefect  36974  48.27  12944   16.90   23227   3.04    24253   31.66  988     0.13
ure     8               5              8               9
total
Wench    13837  14.4   27154   28.27   916     0.95    53978   56.2    169    0.18
uan
Lixian  18417  43.93    12962  30.92   157     0.37    10331   24.64  58      0.14
Maoxia  778     0.86    80875  88.92   1970    2.16    7269    7.99   64      0.07
n
Songpa  24038   37.19  4543    7.03    8398    12.99   27633   42.75  29      0.04
n
Nanpin   13306  25.91   304    0.59    1754    3.41    35920   69.93   82     0.16
Heishu  48754   86.46  392     0.70    78      0.14    7148    12.68   17     0.02
Xiaojin  34458  47.52  361     0.50    2529    3.49    35002   48.27  160     0.22
Jinchua  38134  56.93  653     0.97    3361    5.02    24666   36.82   174    0.26
n      I_I_I_I_
Ma'erk  36348   62.62  1085    1087    616     1.06    19926   34.33  74      0.12
Aba     45400   90.44  252     0.50    1856    3.70    2657    5.29   34      0.07
Ruo'er  49047   85.49  252     0.44    1283    2.24    6706    11.69  81      0.14
gaiIII
Hongy   22227   74.54  382     1.28    296     0.99    6884    23.09  30      0.10
Rangta  25004   84.1   230     0.77    64      0.22    4419    14.86   16     0.05
The Tibetan people are mainly distributed in Heishui, Aba, Ruo'ergai, Hongyuan, Rangtang, Ma'erkang, Jinchuan,
Xiaojin, Lixian, Songpan and Jiuzhaigou. The Qiang people are mainly distributed in Maoxian, Wenchuan and
Lixian, and taking up 88.92%, 28.27% and 30.92% of the local population respectively. The Hui people are mainly
distributed in Songpan, taking up 14% of the local population. The rest of the Hui people are scattered in other
counties. The Han people are mainly concentrated in Jiuzhaigou, Songpan, Xiaojin, Jinchuan, Ma'erkang,
Wenchuan and Lixian. The overall situation is that most of the Tibetan people live in the plateau and grassland in
northwest Aba Prefecture, most Qiang people live in Wenchuan and Maoxian, which are plateau canyon areas.
These two counties also have relatively more Han people. There are Tibetan and Han people living in Xiaojin,
Jinchuan and Nanping, but the population of Qiang in these three counties is relatively small. Songpan has the
largest number of Hui people. There are also some Hui people living in Maoxian. Jinchuan, Xiaoj in, Aba and
Ruo'ergai, but the population is rather small. Back in history, Tibetan and Qiang people are aboriginal inhabitants of
the local area. They are mainly engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry. To defend against wars, these people
have chosen high mountains to live in. The kind of buildings these people live in are sometimes as tall as over 10
meters, and are normally called blockhouses. These blockhouses are very steady, but the natural lighting is poor
inside the room. Some Hui and Han people have come here for military farming, and thus mainly inhabit in valleys
where farming is more convenient. Some people have come here for business, and thus have chosen the business
centers with easy access of transportation.
57



The Tibetan people living in Aba Prefecture are normally divided into three tribes:
* Drog pa, meaning herdsman or grassland Tibetan, who live in the animal husbandry area of Rangtang, Aba,
Hongyuan, Ruo'ergai and Songpan County. These people mainly deal with animal husbandry, speaking Amdo
dialect, which is quite similar to the Tibetan language in Qinghai and Gansu.
*   Shar pa, meaning oriental people, who live in some parts of Songpan County and Jiuzhaigou County
(previously called Nanping County). Their main activity is agriculture, while some people also do animal
husbandry. The Tibetan language they speak has some component of ancient Tibetan, but communication with
other Tibetan people is not a problem.
*   Rong pa, meaning farmers, who live in Lixian, Xiaojin, Jinchuan, Ma'erkang and Heishui Counties, doing
mainly agriculture. Their dialect, which is called Jiarong dialect, is difficult to understand by other Tibetan
people. For this reason, these people are also called Gyarong-pa.
The language of the Qiang people is normally divided into north dialect and south dialect according to the difference
in the living area. North dialect is mainly spoken in Maoxian County, while south dialect is mainly spoken in
Wenchuan and Lixian Counties. There is quite obvious difference in these two dialects of the Qiang language.
The present-day Aba Prefecture has all the five religions of Buddhism, Taoism, Islamism, Catholicism and
Christianity, but the influence of Catholicism and Christianity is relatively small, or even disappearing. The
influence of Buddhism, Daoism and Islamism is still great, with most of the influence coming from Tibetan
Buddhism.
2.4 Ethinic groups and Tibetan people in Songpan County
Songpan County is located in the middle range of Minshan Mountain Ranges. It borders Pingwu and Beichuan
Counties in the east, Jiuzhaigou County in the northeast, Maoxian County in the south, Hongyuan and Heishui
Counties in the southwest, and Ruo'ergai County in the northwest. The distance from east to west is 180km, and that
from north to south is 1 12.5km. It has a total land area of 8,608.37 square kilometers, and an average altitude of over
2000m. The distance from the county headquarters to Chengdu is 335km and that to Ma'erkang is 431km.
In year 618 during the Dang Dynasty, Songzhou was set up in where it is now called Songpan. By then, the city was
surrounded by pine trees, and thus got the name of Songzhou. meaning the land of pine trees. Since Songpan is
located in the border area of Gansu, Sichuan and Qinghai, there has been very frequent communication among
different ethnic groups in history. It is an area where the Tibetan people have lived together with people of other
ethnic groups. According to the statistics of 1999, the county population is mainly composed of Tibetan, Qiang, Hui
and Han people, of which 26326 are Tibetan, 38.51% of the total, 5615 are Qiang, 8.21% of the total, 9568 are Hui,
14% of the total, 26816 are Han, 39.22% of the total, and the rest 33 people belong to other ethnic groups, taking up
0.06% of the total population. Due to historical reasons, the Han people mainly inhabit the townships, valleys, basins
and areas along roads. The Hui people mainly concentrate in the southern area bordering Maoxian County. Hui
people have also established mosques in Zhangla, Shili, Anhong, Desheng, Guihua and Zhenjiang townships. The
Tibetan people are distributed over the vast farming and grazing area. Local Tibetan people are normally referred to
as "Xifan", meaning Tibetan people coming from the west, by the Hui and Han people in Songpan. Starting from
year 635 during the Tang Dynasty, Tubo people had been expanding eastward, conquering Songpan (Songzhou)
many times. Songzhou was once again taken by a Tubo army of 200,000 people. The result of such expansion and
conquering is the integration of Tibetan people coming from the west with aboriginal Songpan people, forming the
unique Tibetan people living in this region.
The main religions for Songpan people include Tibetan Buddhism, Islamism, Daoism, primitive polytheistic religion
and Han Buddhism etc.. Since 1980, 31 temples in the whole county have been opened for public visit. Of these 31
temples, 19 are Tibetan Buddhist temples, with most these being Bon-po temples (3 Ge-lug-pa temples, 2 Nying-ma-
pa temples, I Sa-kya-pa temple, and 13 Bon-po temples). 11 are mosques, and 1 is Daoist temple. There are now
1012 monks, and 30 Biqiu nuns. The different ethnic groups living in Songpan have their own unique religious
beliefs, languages and folk-custom, which are influencing each other. For example, Chinese language has already
become the language for communication among Tibetan, Qiang and Hui peoples. Most Qiang people can speak two
languages of Qiang and Tibetan. With regard to religious belief, Tibetan people mostly believe in Tibetan
58



Buddhism, and mostly Bon-po. Some Qiang people also believe in Bon-po. Also, Tibetan and Qiang people have
many similarities in building structure and dietetic habits.
III     Investigation Target and Methodology
3.1 The project areas visited during this field trip are Muni and Xiaoxing Townships of Songpan County
3.1.1  Muni Township is called "Khrom-je" in Tibetan language. It is located in the western part of Songcheng
District, Songpan County. It borders Jin'an, Shili and Anhong Townships in the east, Hongtu Township of
Rewu District in the south, Hongzha and Yanyun Townships in the west, and Yuanba Township of Zhangla
District in the north. It has an area of 342 square kilometers, covering Zhongzhai, Baozuo, Sanlian, Shiba
and Shangzhai Villages and 1 township rangeland. The township government is based in Zhongzhai
Village, which is 41 km from the county main road, and 7.5km from a small road. There altogether 246
households in the township, with a total population of 1363, of which 1294 are Tibetan, 30 are Hui, and 39
are Han. This is basically a Tibetan township.
The Tibetan people in Muni Township live along Maoniugou, forming a three-dimensional village. The Tibetan
population takes up over 94% of the total. The Han people here are mostly migrated here in the recent dozens of
years. Most of these Han people have married Tibetan people, and can speak Tibetan language. Some of them even
believe in Tibetan Buddhism. In this township, Chinese language is mainly used for communication with outsiders.
Most of the Tibetan people understand some Chinese, and most of them speak some Chinese, too. Still, Tibetan
language is used for most of the internal communication. The whole Maoniugou is thickly covered by forests. There
is alpine meadow on the mountaintops, and farming land on mountainside or river banks. Apart from the traditional
activities of agriculture and animal husbandry, local people also have the tradition of utilizing forest resources.
Digging of medicinal plants, collecting of mushroom and hunting are all important means of income for these people.
There are 2 Ge-lug-pa temples in the township. According to local habits, religious belief here is divided into two
types of Mani and Madri. Madri is the same as Bon-po, which has the tradition of rotating the lection canister
anticlockwise. Mani is Tibetan Buddhism apart from Bon-po. Regardless of sects, all villages will organize some
religious activities regularly every year, including offering sacrifice to the Mountain God and changing lection flags
on the first day of the new year; rotating lection canisters and worship Buddha in Xiaobao Temple on the 14tI, 15th
and 16i of Lunar January; holding Monlam from May 8 to May 10. Most of the participants to such religious
activities are elderly people. Rituals are also held whenever there is a major event such as a wedding or funeral.
There are relatively fewer monks in the temple, but every household has a shrine, which is a symbol of Tibetan
Buddhism culture. There are also lection flags put up on top of the building or in the courtyard. With regard to
dressing habits, the Tibetan men normally wear Chinese clothes, while women, especially elderly women, normally
wear traditional Tibetan clothes. Young people all have gorgeous Tibetan clothes. Such beautiful clothes are usually
kept in great care as family property, and will be worn on special occasions such as major festivals and horse racing
events.
With the construction of roads, introduction of electric lights, telephone and TV, the contact with the outside world
has become daily more frequent. People of Muni Township have also adopted some new means of living and
cultural habits, such as driving cars, riding motorcycles, watching TV, singing pop songs, wearing wrist watch,
wearing Han clothes, and speaking Chinese. Such behaviors have gradually become part of their life.
The Han and Qiang people of Muni Township can use Tibetan language proficiently after intermarriage with the
Tibetan people. The relationship among different ethnic groups is also harmonious. Thus, the sense of identifying
with ethnic independent survival is weak here.
3.1.2  Xiaoxing Township is located in Rewugou in the southern part of Songpan County. It borders
Zhenjiangguan Township in the east, Minjiang Township in the northeast, Jiaochang District of Maoxian
County in the south, and Hongtu Township in the west and northwest. It has a total land area of 306.66
square kilometers, covering Beizisi, Guna, Ping'an, Xinfeng, Da'erbian and Aixi Villages. The township
government is based in Beizisi Village, which is 57km from the county, and has an altitude of 2560m.
There are altogether 387 households in the township, with a total population of 1615, of which 812 are
Qiang, 603 are Tibetan, 103 are Hui and 97 are Han people. The whole township is roughly divided by
Rewu River into the following parts: Ping'an and Guna Villages in the north with mainly Tibetan
59



inhabitants, Aixi and Da'erbian Villages in the south with mainly Qiang inhabitants, Beizisi and Xinfeng
Villages in the east with the mixed inhabitance of Tibetan, Qiang and Han people.
This township is a trilingual area, speaking all the three languages of Tibetan, Qiang and Chinese. Most of the Qiang
people I have personally interviewed can speak all these languages. Most Tibetan people can speak the two
languages of Tibetan and Chinese, and some can even speak Qiang. In the two villages with mixed inhabitance,
intermarriage among the three ethnic groups is common. In cases of intermarriage between Han and Qiang, or
between Han and Tibetan, policies endow the children of such marriages with the right to choose an ethnic group to
identify with. Information shows that most people would choose to be an ethnic minority, since ethnic minority
people enjoy preferential policies in job application, employment and schooling.
Most Tibetan people believe in Bon-po. Qiang people also believe in Bon-po, apart from their traditional belief in
nature worshipping (including mountain god, water god and family god). Longtou Temple in the township is a Bon-
po temple, with over 200 years of history. Three major religious activities are held each year, with the participation
of both Tibetan and Qiang people.
3.2 Methodologies used for field investigation
From May 7 to 8, 2000, I made a field investigation alone without the company of WB officials of local authorities in
the following five villages: Shiba, Sanlian, Baozuo, Da'erbian and Ping'an Villages in Muni and Xiaoxing
Townships. I visited 10 households, 20 people and 3 temples.
The anthropologist field investigation method was applied, i.e., first hand information was collected by the
investigator independently through direct observation, meetings, and household interviews in the project areas
without the company of WB officials and local authorities. The interviewees include township/village leaders,
women, seniors, youth and lamas. Detailed steps were: a) obtaining basic information through interviews with
township/village leaders and most respected seniors in the villages; b) improvising small seminars with senior,
middle-aged and young villagers on the trip or in the field; c) in-depth investigation in the households at different
wealth levels and of different ethnic groups through chatting, questioning and discussion.
IV     Investigation Findings
4.1 The ethnic groups' attitude to the project
It is a general reflection of the interviewees that for those who provide wood-cutting services to forest sector
authorities before 1998, the family income, mainly cash income decreased dramatically after the logging ban came
into place. That has resulted in a certain degree of deterioration of people's daily life. Still, people are willing to
support the logging ban policy, and especially welcome SFDP. The main reasons for this are as follows:
4.1.1  The Tibetan and Qiang ethnic groups in Maoniugou and Rewugou areas have actually lived in forests for
generations, and both their economic life and religious beliefs have a close connection with forests. People
consider forests a source of life, which provides them with fertile pasture and land.
4.1.2  From the religious point of view, they have a mysterious worship to the forests. Tibetan people believe that
there are numerous mountain gods and klu gods in the forest. The author collected over a dozen names of
mountain gods in Maoniugou alone. Qiang people also believe there are mountain gods, dragon gods, klu
gods, Phur gods and field gods in the forest. The mountains and the resources in the mountains are believed
to be parts of the gods, and thus logging is strongly opposed by local people. For this reason, the so called
"Da'erbian Incident" happened in 1998, when the Qiang people tried to stop the forestry bureau cutting
trees from villages' mountains. Similar events of opposing cutting trees from holy mountains have
happened in the area around Xiaobao Temple in Anhong Township. Such a protection of forest resources
out of religious belief has been a tradition of Tibetan and Qiang peoples. As a result, the logging ban policy
and SFDP have turned out to go with local anticipation to protect the ethnic traditional culture.
4.1.3  Local people have noticed the change of climate and increase in natural disasters since large-scale logging.
There has been frequent occurrence of flood, hailstone, frost and mudflow, causing great loss in human life,
property and income. Thus, local people also support the logging ban, the policy to return farmland for
forestry and SFDP from a strong disaster reduction point of view.
60



4.1.4  Reform and open-up as well as development of tourist projects have enabled local people to benefit from
their natural resources, and thus strengthening their awareness of forest resources protection.
4.1.5  It has also been noticed that, although welcomning the logging ban and SFDP, people do not have a clear
idea of the concept, objectives and contents of sustainable forestry development. They are eager to leam
what kind of benefit can be gained through the project to the local economy and people's life. They want to
know what projects they can participate in and how.
4.2 Present situation in the project areas and people's expectation of the project
4.2.1   Economic life
1) Traditional agriculture has been a major means of income for the project area. The main local products are wheat,
highland barley and Hudou. Though the yield is not high, the harvest is basically self-sufficient. The yield has
increased in recent years due to extension of plastic film technique for wheat. Still, very few households have
surplus grain for sale. The level of mechanization in farming is not high. The method of using oxen for
ploughing is still applied in many places even today. As of present, some places have started returning
agricultural land for forestry for protection of the eco-environment. The area of farming land will further
decrease. Animal husbandry has also been a major means of income. Most of the project area has a mixture of
farming and animal husbandry activities. Local people raise mainly yak, horse and goat, with a small number of
pigs. Cash income in animal husbandry mainly comes from selling yak meat. But the portion of yak meat for sale
is very small, leaving most of the meat for self-cornsumption. The increase in livestock has brought great pressure
to the pastures, and overgrazing has caused degradation of grassland, which in turn has slowed down the further
development of animal husbandry. Contrary to Han and Hui people, Tibetan and Qiang people don't have the
tradition of doing trade. The lack of fimancial means and experience in trade has posed great problems when these
people want to accustom to the mechanism of the market economy. Income from commercial activities is very
limited. Thus, before the logging ban in 1998, most of the cash income for the Tibetan and Qiang people came
from providing labor for the forestry sector. Take Muni County for example, the total income of the township
from providing labor for logging reached RMB 1.664 million in 1998. The income structure of the whole
township shows that 67.2% comes from forestry related means (according to the information provided by the
social assessment team for Songpan County). My personal investigation shows that the average household
income from providing labor for logging is between RM3B 1000 to RMB2000, with some households even
reaching RMB5000. The Qiang people, especially those living in Xiaoxing Township, used to have their income
from selling firewood or charcoal. The average income from this could reach RMB 1 000 in a year. After the
logging ban came into place, the income, especially cash income of the Tibetan and Qiang people dropped greatly.
Local people strongly hope that the new SFDP could be able to compensate such loss.
Tourism in the project area has been developing for some years already. The development of Munigou Scenic Spot
has brought some income for the local households. The biggest beneficiary is Sanlian Village. According to the
village director, the village has an income of nearly RMB90,000 from tourism. Of the 70 households in the village,
30 have already opened small shops and restaurants near Zhaga Waterfall. However, the development of tourism is
not properly coordinated with the economic interests of the local Tibetan and Qiang people, and many problems still
exist.
*   Income from selling tickets for Munigou Scenic Spot is the largest portion of income from tourism. During the
tourist peak time from April 30 to May 6, income from tickets reached RMB100,000 to RMB130,000 every
day, with some better days reaching RMB 160,000. But all this income is kept by the management division of
the scenic spot, which is directly affiliated to the county tourist bureau. Local people have always wished to
share part of that income, and also allocate part of the income to the temples visited by tourists. But this wish
has not yet become true.
*   Horse riding tourism has many years of history in the local area and usually brings about quite good income,
but it has always been done by town people organized by the county tourist bureau. Local people in Munigou
Scenic Spot used to organize their own horse teams to entertain visitors at the entrance to the scenic spot, but
this was deterred.
*   Most of the commodities sold on the scenic spot market are from other places, lacking characteristics of local
ethnic groups.
61



* The time for tourist development has not been long, and the scope is also quite limited by now. Presently, only
Sanlian and Shangzhai Villages have benefited from tourism.
*   Farmers and herdsmen doing tourist development lack funds and training, which has seriously hampered the
development of tourism.
2) Local people hold the view that they have protected the forest resources over the years, and are still sacrificing for
the sake of forest resources. Since the economic benefits of tourist development actually come from the natural
resources (including the forests) they have protected, it is simply natural for them to benefit from tourism. They
hope that the implementation of the project will fully consider their wish.
3) With the improvement of infrastructure such as road and electric power in recent years, new contents have been
added to people's life. Quite some of the households in the project area already have TV sets. 36 households in
Shiba Village have TV sets. The Tibetan and Qiang people all love to watch TV, and have different preferences
to TV programs according to the different age groups. The village director and more educated villagers love to
watch news and TV series, youth love martial arts and entertainment programs, while elderly people love to watch
Tibetan programs from Tibet and Qinghai. Local Tibetan and Qiang people love to watch news programs. They
pay much attention to news, and would very much like to know the activities of the state leaders. TV has brought
new interest and happiness to the local Tibetan and Qiang people. TV has also brought about new vexation. Due
to the insufficient supply of electric power, electricity is onlv guaranteed for the period from 8 o'clock in the
evening to 7 o'clock next morning. The backward receiving facilities have also posed a problem: many places
cannot receive Tibetan TV station programs. Thus, local people strongly hope that the issue of insufficient
electric power could be solved as soon as possible, and closed-circuit television could be installed.
4) Timber has been the source of energy for household purposes in the project area for generations, thus the Tibetan
and Qiang people are very much concerned about how to solve the energy supply problem after the logging ban
and implementation of SFDP. One possible solution is to use electric power. Electricity has brought light to the
villages, but the supply of electricity is not well guaranteed due to outdated power lines and equipment, as well as
insufficient supply. Power cut is frequent here, which is far from being able to satisfy needs. Although the
present supply of fuel (mainly timber) is ample, local people are still willing to use electric cooker instead of
timber. People's main concern is the high price for electric power. For a poor ethnic minority area, taking Shiba
Village as an examnple, the price of RMB0.34 yuan for one degree of electricity (about RMB20 yuan per month) is
still more than these people can accept.
5) Improvement of transportation conditions and development of tourism have accelerated the economic
development of areas along roads. People presently still living in high mountains are willing to move down hill to
where transportation is more convenient. But one major reason hampering such a movement is the high cost for
house building. People cannot use only timber for construction, while the cost of cement is too high for them.
4.2.2  Religious belief
Most of the Tibetan and Qiang people in Muni and Xiaoxing Townships believe in a certain religion. The Tibetan
people mainly believe in Ge-lug-pa, which is also called "mani' locally. The Qiang people mainly believe in nature
worshiping, as well as Bon-po, which is called "madri" locally. My personal investigation shows that there is one
Ge-lug-pa temple in Muni Township. This temple is called Housi, or Zhagasi Temple (or sometimes called
Zhalagongsi Temple). The temple was established in 1663, located in Sanlian Village of Muni Township, near
Zhaga Waterfall and Erdaogao Scenic Spot. There are 31 monks in this temple now. Standing beside the road to
Maoniugou and Zhaga Waterfall is another Ge-lug-pa temple called Xiaobaosi Temple (called Songchu Serwo gon in
Tibetan language). This temple has a history of over 300 years. According to administrative division, this temple
belongs to Anhong Township, but many of the monks come from Muni Township. Xiaoxing Township has on Bon-
po temple called Longtou Temple (or Sang-Brug-Ling Temple). All three temples were damaged to different extents
during the Cultural Revolution, and presently being renovated. Though there is no limit to becoming monks in these
temples, fewer and fewer people are willing to become monks in temples nowadays. The number of monks in all
these three temples have greatly decreased compared to the situation in the 50's. For example, the number of monks
in Xiaobaosi Temple dropped from 150 to 25. Longtou Temple used to have 7 lamas and over 40 monks, while there
are only 1 lama and 10 monks now in the temple. Analysis reveals the following three reasons behind this
phenomenon: 1) influenced by modem culture, local Tibetan or Qiang youth willing to become monks are becoming
62



ever fewer. I used to have an interview with over a dozen Tibetan youth on a piece of grassland in Baozuo
Township. They all claimed they have religious belief, but none is willing to become a monk. Most of them express
their wish to do business or drive cars, and to participate in various entertainment activities. This is obviously
different from the situation in Qinghai, Tibet and Ganzi Prefecture. 2) Income from being a monk is less than that
from sideline production and tourism. 3) Information from lamas of the temples reveals that there are state policies
forbidding children younger than 15 years of age to become monks. This has obviously also been an influencing
factor.
With the development of market economy and tourist development, temples are also facing many difficulties: 1)
relevant state policies require the temples to support themselves. Temples here don't have their own land, shops or
enterprises. They have very weak economic power. The renovation of temples mainly depends on state allocation of
funds and donation from few rich families. Still, such limited fund allocation and donation are not enough to meet
the needs of the temples, and the temples are recovering very slowly. 2) The livelihood of the monks mainly
depends on their families. In Longtou Temple, all the monks, with the exception of the lama, stay at home doing
labor in normal days. The monks will gather in the temples only when there is a religious event. 3) Though Zhagasi
Temple and Xiaobaosi Temple are both situated inside scenic spots, and are gradually become more and more visited
by tourists, there is no restaurants or shops in the temples. Neither do the temples have income from tickets. The
very limited income is from the spontaneous donation of visitors. 4) The main income for the monks is from
scripture chanting in the villages and households. But this is far from satisfying the needs of expenses for religious
activities. 5) Though temples have participated in the protection of natural forests and afforestation activities, there
has been no income from such input. To increase income, a very interesting discussion was held in Xiaobaosi
Temple on the issue of whether temples could be contracted by outsiders just like contracting a restaurant or a shop.
Two opinions emerged as a result of the discussion. Most of the monks are against the idea, thinking that this is a
violation of mitzvah and could affect religious activities. Only very few monks are for the idea. This is also a
reflection of the conflict for the temples between religious mitzvah and market economy under present heated market
economic conditions. They wish that the implementation of the NFPP and SFDP would be beneficial to the
development of the temples' economy. They also hope to participate in NFPP and SFDP with payment, utilizing
temples' tradition in forest and animal protection.
From the villages I have personally visited, I find that people are free to choose their religious belief. People can
either chant scriptures or pray at home, or participate in the religious and sacrificial activities in the temples. The
development of tourism and large-scale infrastructure construction have affected religious activities. The large
number of visitors to the temples have disturbed the normal praying of the monks, and road building has taken parts
of religious sites. Also, with the decrease in the number of youth learning Tibetan language, fewer people are
learning scriptures in the temples now.
On the whole, monks in the three temples strongly wish that under the premises of not influencing religious
activities, temple could benefit from participating in SFDP and tourist projects.
Compared to temples in Ganzi and Tibet, these temples lack sufficient source of monks or management staff with
modem management concept.
4.2.3  Education
The overall education level in the project area is higher than that in Ganzi or Changdu. There are primary schools in
villages and townships, and there are also middle schools in the county. Children of most families have had some
education, mostly primary school education. Some have also had junior high school education before returning
home to do labor work. There are also some people who have finished senior high school in the county and work for
a two-year college program in Chengdu afterwards. Still, only very few people actually finish schooling and get a
job. Compared to surrounding areas, the education level is low, and still many people are illiterate. The under-
developed education situation is mainly caused by the following reasons: 1) lack of teachers. Many teachers are only
temporary, providing poor quality teaching. Students don't have the interest in study and result in poor grades. 2)
The township primary school is far away, and cost for boarding is high. 3) Since most of the production in the
agricultural and animal husbandry region depends on physical labor, labor is in great need, and most children above
the age of ten have to participate in labor to support the families.
63



V       Suggestions to Project Implementation
Based on the investigation, I propose the following suggestions to project implementation:
5.1 Most of the inhabitants in the project beneficiary areas are Tibetan people, who have very ancient historical and
cultural traditions. Most of them still believe in Tibetan Buddhism, observing various religious and living
traditions. The interviews with these people show that they are concemed not only about the improvement of
their economic conditions, but also about respect to religious belief. Thus, the suggestion is to fully respect and
protect religious activity sites during project implementation. Any project activity affecting religious belief shall
be avoided to promote social stability and unity of ethnic groups. Improper activities such as contracting of
monastery by outside businessmen shall be strictly forbidden.
5.2     To support freedom in religious belief and respect the habits of ethnic people, also to guarantee the smooth
implementation of the project, it is suggested that proper input shall be made to monastery in the project area,
and that monks be allowed to participate in this project, so as to benefit from it.
5.3 Over 99% of the population in the project area are ethnic minority people. It is of utmost importance to the
success of the project whether they will be willing to participate in project development actively. Since the PRC
have a series of preferential policies and regulations for ethnic minority people in the fields of family welfare,
childbirth, education, marriage, language, traditional custom, and employmenL Such policies and regulations
shall be considered by the project, and followed during project implementation. in the hope that all the project
activities will not only meet the economic needs of the local people, but also accord with local social and
cultural traditions, and acceptable to the local people.
5.4 Since the average education level of ethnic minority people in the project area is relatively low, and there is a
lack of techniques in sustainable development of resources, preferential treatment in training and loan shall be
considered for the ethnic minorities.
5.5 In order to enable local ethnic people to better understand the objective, significance and prospect of this project,
it is suggested that the languages of local ethnic people be used for the project documents, advertisements and
training courses.
5.6 SFDP shall take into full consideration the close combination of project implementation with protection of the
traditional culture of the local ethnic people.
5.6.1   It is suggested to incorporate the monastery in the project area into the component of natural forest
management and community development. Under the premises of not affecting normal religious activities,
monks should be encouraged to participate in NFPP and SFDP to profit from the project.
* With some proper training, monks could participate in the management of natural forests, planting and seedling
production activities.
* Allocate a certain portion of loan funds to assist the monastery in developing tourist resources.
* A certain proportion of the ticket revenue of the scenic spots shall be returned to the monastery inside the scenic
spots according to a certain percentage.
* The adverse impact of tourists' visits to the monastery on normal religious activities shall be avoided.
5.6.2    Pay more attention to the cultural meaning in tourist development in the project area.
* Since traditional and ancient folk culture and arts are gradually disappearing, it is suggested to train a certain
number of staff in traditional folk culture and arts, in combination with tourist development. These people
could tell folk tales, perform folk dances, sing folk songs, make folk paintings etc.. By doing so, the display
of traditional culture could be combined with promotion of tourism, enhancing the traditional culture content
of tourist projects.
* In the tourist development projects, personnel producing local products and making folk craftwork shall be
trained to produce products with strong folk characteristics.
* Organize people to collect local fairy tales and legends, so as to enhance the traditional cultural attraction of the
tourist sites.
64



* It is suggested to combine traditional events such as horseracing, holy mountain worshiping, god worshipping
and "shua-ba-zi" with tourist development, so as to increase the number of colorful tourist items.
5.7 The Tibetan and Qiang people in the project area mainly live in the high and cold mountainous areas and forest
areas. Their traditional economic activities include collection of forest products, apart from farming and animal
husbandry. The forest products they collect mainly include Chinese caterpillar fungus, bulb of fritillary, fern
and some wild mushroom species. Thus, project planning should also include training on processing and
utilization of forest products, as well as a plan for the establishment of a community service system, which
combines production and selling. By so doing, the exploitation and utilization of forest products is expected to
be more scientific and rational, which will promote the sustainable utilization of natural resources.
5.8 Since the project area is an ethnic minority area, the present management level of the grassroots organizations in
villages is far from being able to meet the needs of the project. Thus, training ethnic minority management staff
should be considered an important component of the project. It is also necessary to clarify that these
management staff shall be mainly Tibetan and Qiang people.
5.9 Small credit is an important measure for this project. The key to this measure is that loan and management
methods shall accord with the credit habits of the Tibetan and Qiang people, so as to benefit effective utilization
of funds. Thus, it is suggested to organize village fund management committees to manage small credits. My
personal investigation shows that village directors in the project area are democratically elected by the villagers,
and are in most cases deeply respected by them. For this reason, the village fund management committees could
be composed of village directors and some members elected by villagers (representation of monks should be
considered). Loan plans shall also follow the principle of giving priority to ethnic minorities and women, while
trying to benefit every household participating in the project. I have also noticed through my investigation that
the lack of floating capital has greatly restricted the development of tertiary industry by local Tibetan and Qiang
people. Thus, it is suggested to direct more small credit funds to the development of tertiary industry with local
tradition and cultural characteristics, increasing the income of local people.
5.10 From the long-term point of view, education is the driving force and guarantee to sustainable development.
Thus, the project planning should consider development of education and enhancement of the education level of
the Tibetan and Qiang people as an important content.
5.10.1  Increase the number of primary schools in the project area, so as to enable the children of project
beneficiaries to go to schools nearby. Increase the enrollment rate of primary and middle school students.
Provide food, accommodation and tuition fee for the Tibetan and Qiang students.
5.10.2  Employ good teacher at the request of local Tibetan and Qiang people. Improve the treatment of teachers.
5.10.3  The general low education level of local Tibetan and Qiang people is not beneficial to the future
development of the communities. Thus, the project shall propose clear plans for adult education and
training, as well as illiteracy elimination. Based on the actual situation that most local inhabitants are
Tibetans, Tibetan language education shall be included in adult education and training.
5.1 lThe implementation of the policy to return agricultural land for forestry and NFPP will cause a decrease in the
number of people doing traditional farming and animal husbandry in the project area. Thus, organization of
vocational training should be an important component of the project planning. The objective of such training
should be to provide 1-2 special skills for the ethnic people in the communities, so as to facilitate their transfer to
non-agricultural sectors, and increase their opportunities of earning income. Such training shall give priority to
Tibetan and Qiang people and women. In order to help the trainees better accustomed to the market economy,
the training plan should be made according to market demand, giving priority to tourism, processing of local
products, production of folk craftwork, transportation, collection, processing and selling of forest products, as
well as various skills needed for the commercial activities of the market.
5.12The community development project shall include village construction planning, so as to make the layout,
function and style of villages more beneficial to the implementation of NFPP and SFDP, as well as maintaining
the unique folk architecture features. This will be able to benefit the development of tourism, while improving
the housing conditions of the people. Due to the implementation of NFPP and the logging ban, fewer logs are
65



used for construction locally. Thus, SFDP should also include development of alternative building materials,
and training of ethnic architects.
5.1 3My investigation shows that Munigou Scenic Spot has a plan of inviting state owned enterprises to invest in the
construction of hotels and restaurants. My personal view is that only tourist development and construction
projects, which will benefit local aboriginals, shall be developed, in order to promote ethnic culture and enhance
the ethnic feature of tourist items. It is suggested that "farmer households" or "herdsmen's home" type
courtyard tourist items should be developed, which have unique ethnic features and are more sustainable.
Together with such a tourist development model, folk food products can also be promoted.
The present health care conditions in the project are rather poor, lacking doctors and medicine. It is suggested that
the project should add a component of training for medical care personnel, and increase input in necessary facilities
for the township clinics. Also, it is suggested to provide preferential policies to the ethnic minority people in
charging for medical treatment.
VI.    Additional Information
6.1    Baima Tibetan
Baima Tibetan is mainly distributed in Baima and Muzuo Townships of Pingwu County, Caodi, Wujiao and Majia
Townships of Jiuzhaigou County in Sichuan Province, Tielou and Shijiba Townships in Gansu Wen County. The
total population is over 10,000. Baima Township has the large population of Baima Tibetan. This is also the world-
famous hometown of the Giant Panda and Golden-haired Monkey. Nature reserves such as Wanglang and Baihe
have been established here.
Baima Tibetan was identified as Tibetan in the early 1950's. The ethnic group later asked for re-identification.
Sichuan Provincial Ethnic Affairs Commission organized two field investigations in 1978 and 1979, with the support
of experts from the Ethnic Affairs Research Institute of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Sichuan Provincial
Ethnic Affairs Research Institute, Sichuan University and Sichuan Provincial Museum. Academic workshops were
held many times to reach the following opinions: 1) is the descendant of the ancient Di people; 2) is Tibetan; 3) is the
descendant of the ancient Dangchangqiang people; 4) is another ethnic group. The final identification result comes
from relevant state departments, deciding that it is a branch of Tibetan, giving it the name of Baima Tibetan.
The language of the Baima Tibetan belongs to Tibetan-Burma language group of Sino-Tibetan language system. In
the languages of the same group, it is closer to Tibetan. They don't have their own written language. Though a very
small number of hand-written copies of Tibetan scriptures were introduced before the 1950's, only very few "Beibu"
could read. Some of these "Beibu" could tell the teachings in these Tibetan scriptures.
Baima Tibetan people, man and woman, old or young, all wear white tray-like terai (black in some places). A white
chicken feather or pheasant feather is stuck in the terai. Men normally like white flax clothes, while women like to
wear colorful one-piece dress, both sleeves and the back are decorated with red, yellow, white and purple strips. A
fish-bone plate is hung in front of the chest. Since the front of the garment opens quite large, a breast-band is usually
used. Bound on the waist is a colorful broad waistband woven from wool, which is decorated with some small coins.
The feet are wrapped in flax or felt, wearing willow bark sandals. Their staple food is wheat, barley, buckwheat and
potatoes. Maize became planted over a large area since the 1950's. A special favorite food for these people is boiled
vegetable with noodles, another is paste made of wheat and soy beans. Honey liquor and Za liquor are their favorite
drink. Their houses are mostly made from earth and wood planks, with two floors. In some remote and out-of-the-
way villages, people will find a whole village of the same kind of building.
The Baima Tibetan people have two names. One is the so-called humble name given by parents or Taoists at the
birth. This name does not tell apart first and surnames. The second name is formal name got after grown up. This
name is similar to Chinese name. The main surnames include Yang, Ban, Tian, Cao, Yu and Wang etc., with most of
the people taking Yang.
66



The religious belief here is nature worshiping. They worship sun, moon, mountain and river. Every mountain at the
back of a village has a mountain god. The shrines in every household worship sun, moon, cattle, horse, sheep or
paintings of ancestors painted by Chinese painters. Almost every village has a Taoist of their own ethnic group.
Some villages even have small temples. Such temples are very small, with only one small house. Instead of
sculptures, only plates with paintings of gods are present in the temples. There are no professional monks, or regular
sacrificial activities. But some villages are influenced by Tibetan Buddhism or Chinese witchcraft, and have lamas
or koradj i.
The most ceremonious festival is the Spring Festival. On July 15, people have a tradition of killing chicken to
worship gods, and invite each other for dinner, celebrating harvest. On festivals, a dance with masks of twelve
animals (cattle, horse, sheep, lion, tiger, dragon, chicken, peacock, dog, etc.) will be performed to pray for piece and
happiness. A song called "Jiuquzi", meaning liquor song, will also be sung in memory of the past.
6.2 Basic Information of Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan Province
Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture is located in northwest Yunnan Province, at the conjunction point of Yunnan,
Sichuan and Tibet. It lies within 980 37' and 1000 23' East Longitude and 260 7' and 29 12' North Latitude. It
borders in the east with Muli Tibetan Autonomous County of Sichuan Province and Ninglang Yi Autonomous
County of Yunnan Province; in the south with Lijiang Naxi Autonomous County and Lanping and Fugong Counties
of Nujiang Susu Autonomous Prefecture; in the west with Jigong and Chayu Counties of Tibet Autonomous Region
and Gongshan Dulong Autonomous County of Nujiang Prefecture, Yunnan Province; in the north with Mangkang
County of Tibet, and Batang, Derong and Xiangcheng Counties of Ganzi Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Sichuan
Province. It has a total area of 23,870 square kilometers. The largest distance from east to west is 164km, and that
from north to south is 225km. Diqing Prefecture includes Zhongdian, Deqin and Weixi Susu Autonomous County.
Residents in the prefecture belong to ethnic groups of Tibetan, Susu, Han, Naxi, Bai, Hui, Pumi, Nu, Miao, Yi etc..
The largest population is Tibetan. The 1990 population statistics show that the Tibetan population takes up 33.1% of
the prefecture's total.
Diqing Tibetan, together with the Tibetans in Changdu of Tibet, Ganzi Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Sichuan,
Yushu Mongolian Autonomous Prefecture of Qinghai, form Kham-pa. They speak the Kham dialect of Tibetan
language. Their language, religious belief and living habits are very close to those in Batang and Derong of Ganzi
Prefecture. Diqing Tibetan live in the southeast border of the Tibetan region. This area has been the frontier or
border line of the Tibetans in history. The mountains and rivers of this area are closely connected with those of
many other ethnic groups in Yunnan Province. They have also had frequent communication with ethnic groups
including Han, Naxi and Bai. A unique local culture is formed based on political, economic and cultural influence
from other parts of the country. They regard Naxi people as their brothers, and the relationship between these two
ethnic groups has been very harmonious.
The garments of the Diqing Tibetans are very diversified. In the past, the Tibetan males had the habit of wearing
long hair and ornaments. This tradition is no longer common nowadays. The male garments have become more or
less similar, with loose waist, long sleeves and big fronts. The inner garment called "Duitong" is usually short,
reaching only the waist. It is usually ornamented with many layers of tall collars. Silver and copper beads are used
as buttons. The outer garment called "Chuba" is usually very long. A gold rimmed terai is put on head. Female
garments for the Tibetans in Diqing are still very diversified according to the different areas of residence. One type
is long sleeve shirts with broad collar and narrow sleeve long gowns, with a colorful apron outside. Another type is
dark blue long gown with a shawl outside, long trousers for the lower part, and a white apron outside. Still another
type is long sleeve silk shirt inside, with a shawl outside and a long bouffancy for the lower part. All the different
types of garments are decorated with beautiful ornaments.
Diqing Tibetans depend on highland barley and wheat as their main types of grain. and ghee roasted barley flour as
staple food. They drink ghee tea, and live in flat roof blockhouse type buildings or two-storey buildings.
Diqing Tibetans believe in Tibetan Buddhism. There used to be many Ge-lug-pa, Nying-ma-pa, Sa-kya-pa, Kar-
gyud-pa and Bon-po temples in the prefecture. Now Ge-lug-pa has become the most powerful sect in the prefecture,
while Nying-ma-pa also has some influence. A very small number of people believe in Bon-po. These people are
67



called "Cangba". They pray for good fortune and avoidance of back luck. They read "piece scripture", hoping to
drive away hailstone and evil things.
Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture is also a major natural forest area. Income from logging used to account for
over 70% of the financial revenue at the prefecture and countv levels. However, since 1996, they have made efforts
to develop tourism. By the end of 1998, they have received over one million tourists for the year. Tourism is now
replacing logging to become the supporting industry of the prefecture.
68



Annex 2
Ethnic Minority Profile Tables
Table A2.1
Ethnic Groups in NFMI Project Counties
Province    Project   Autonomy      Poverty [    Rural           Ethnic Minorities
County     Status i/    Status 2/  Population   % Rural      Name and %
Population Of Rural Population
Hainan     Changjiang Li**                        155,240      52%     Li----- 51%
Miao- 0.2%
Hunan      Yanling    No             Provincial   176,000      3%      Yao--- 3%,
She---N/AI
Yongshun   Tujia/Miao*   National     478,300       74%     Tujia--- 62%
I                       Miao--- 12%
Sichuan    Baoxing    *                       l   45,000       11%     Tibetan--- 9%
Pingwu                    Provincial  154,400       31%     Qiang--- 21%
__________  ____________  Tibetan--4%
Songpan    Tibetan/Qiang* Provincial   49,600       79%    Qiang--- 42%
____ ___ ___ _      _   I                        Tibetan-- 37%
NA = non-available data; 1/ * = ethnic Autonomous Prefecture, ** ethnic Autonomous County, ***= non-
autonomous county with ethnic township; 2/ National = national designated poor county, Provincial = provincial
designated poor county
Table A2.2
Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries - NFM Component
Project    Project      Of Which Ethnic Minoritv         Ethnic Composition of Tship
T'ship     H'holds    H'holds      %      People           Main Group            Second
Group
Wangxia           686       686     100      35,10             Li        3,510
Ceyuan            827         11    0.5         19           Yao             5   She    14
Shidu             897         10     1.0        36           Yao             0   She   36
Longzhai          705       472      67       1,679         Tujia        1,679
Wanfu             293       NA                             Tujiao          NA Miao    NA
Xiaoxi            772       486      63       1,798         Tujia        1,798 Miao      5
Zhenxi            253       NA                              Tujia          NA  Miao   NA
Longdong         1,379        14     1.0        57        Tibetan           57
Yongfu            443         5      1.0        20        Tibetan           20
Baima             306       304      99       1,367  Baima Tibetan       1,367
Muzuo             389       211      54        899  Baima Tibetan          899
Mouni             246       234      95       1,294       Tibetan         1294
Xiaoxing          387       356      92      1.293_       Tibetan          485 Qiang  808
Total            7,037     2,789     40     11,972 1
69



Table A2.3
Ethnic Minority SFE Workers - NFM
Province    County      Forestry     Ethnic Minority
Enterprise       Workers
%o total
Hainan    Changjiang  Bawangling     0          0
Hunan      Yanling     Yanling      NA        NA
Baoxing    Jiajinshan     6          1
Sichuan     Pingwu      Pingwu       113        16
Songpan     Songpan       12         1
Table A2.4
Ethnic Groups in PAM Nature Reserves
Nature Reserve Township          Po    iation            Ethnic Population
H'holds  People     %     People   I     Groups, %
Jianfengling AC Jianfeng        530     2735    100%     2735    Li
Jianbian         129      701    100%     701     Li 85% Miao 15%
Badagongshan  tWudaoshui        835     4079    66%      2675    Tujia
Bamaoxi          388     1532   1 94%     1437    Tujia
Badagongshan     590     2490    90%      2251    Tujia
Hekou            308     1441   1 52%     753     Tujia
Longtanping      542     2968    89%      2630    Tujia
Sifangxi         524     2189  I 87%      1913    Tujia
Hupingshan     Nanping          1752    5486     89%     4888    Tujia
Zhongling         92      318    97%      308     Tujia
Jiangping       2975     6795    91%      6216    Tujia
Houhe AC       Wufen            1274    4264    69%      2948    Tujia
Wantan           662     2243    75%      1672    Tujia
Dahuaping FF     104      301    58%       176    Tujia
Baishuijiang   Tielou           2329    10414   20%      2078   iTibetan
Fanjingshan    Dewang           492             39%       824    Miao, Tujia
Mingxiao          96             53%   _   189    Miao, Tujia
Taiping          735             76%      2294    Miao, Tujia, Dong
Wuluo AC         248            F 48%     768     Miao, Tujia
Xingye AC        470            [100%     2030    Miao, Tujia
Muhuang AC       196             100%     783     Tujia
Yongyi AC        925             61%      2159    Miao, Tujia
Tangjiahe      Qingxi g         3697    14598    6%      943     Hui
Qiaolou          1868    6831    12%      839     Hui
_Sanguo          2164     7711    3%       215   |Hui
Piankou        Piankou ET       246      1127    Approximatively Qiang, Tibetan,Hui
Xiaoba ET        475      2023    67-80% Qiang, 5- Qiang, Tibetan,Hui
Kaiping ET       102      401     1 11%Tibetan,   Qiang, Tibetan,Hui
_Baini            85      410     less than 1% Hui Qiang, Tibetan,Hui
Baiyang AP     Baiyang          571     2499    58%      1438    Qiang
Dazhai            38      246   ! 100%    246     Tibetan
Daxing           174      940   ! 96%     903     Tibetan
70



Mingjiang        368     1699    52%      891    Tibetan, Hui
Zhenjiang        402     1993    37%      735    Hui
Zhenping         452     2161    63%      1363   Qiang
AP = within ethnic autonomous prefecture, AC = within ethnic autonomous county, ET = ethnic township.
Table A2.4. (continued)
Ethnic Groups in PAM Nature Reserves
Nature Reserve:Township        Popu:lation                Ethnic Population
LH'holds   People    %   I People t        Groups, %
Si'er          Huya ET         613      2528    Approximatively IQiang, Tibetan,Hui
I Si'er ET      210       850      from 22% to   Qiang, Tibetan,Hui
'Tucheng        1530     6097    100% depending Qiang, Tibetan,Hui
on villages
Gaoshanbao is
100% Tibetan
Xiaozhaizigou  lQingpian ET    ***                   _
1Baishi ET      ***
lBadi ET        ***
IXiaoba ET      ***
Nujiang       ;Cikai          2879      10859   92%    10012   Bai, Lisu, Naxi, Yi*,
AP                                                             Tibetan, Nu, Dulong
Bingzhongluo    1365     6120    98%     6015  lBai, Lisu, Naxi, Yi*,
TTibetan, Nu, Dulong
Dulongjiang     786      4085    100%    4079   Dulong 97% Yi* Bai Lisu
'Naxi Tibetan Nu Dulong
!Zilijia        1805     8945    100%    8929   Lisu 86%, Yi, Bai, Naxi,
___________   ._______                          Tibetan, Nu, Dulong
Jiakedi        2212      11044   100%   11021   Lisu 97%, Yi*, Bai, Naxi,
'Tibetan, Nu, Dulong
Pihe           2484      10115   99%    10029   Nu 82%, Yi*, Bai, Lisu,
Naxi, Tibetan, Dulong
|Gudeng         3600     16125   100%    16085  Lisu 96%, Yi*, Bai, Naxi,
I_________                                     fTibetan, Nu, Dulong
tLuobenzhuo     2668     11081   100%    11065  Bai 60%, Lisu 40%, Yi*,
Naxi Tibetan Nu Dulong
Baimaxueshan   Tuoding         792      4387                   . Tibetan
AP             Yangla          935      5268                   .
Xiaruo          1523     7773
Yanmen          765      3746
Yunling         988      6117
1334     8416
Shengping       1732     8875
Benzilan        1656     7776                   Lisu
Tacheng                         _      __| _    .__
Yi* = only a few Yi households
AP = within ethnic autonomous prefecture, AC = within ethnic autonomous county,
ET = ethnic township.
71



Table A2.5
Ethnic Minority Counties - PE Component
Provinces       Project Counties      Ethnic Group      Ethnic
I                              ~~~~     ~~~~~~~Name  Minority %
Liaoning
IXinmin Municipality           Manchus         5,0%
Liaozhong                      Manchus         6,0%
Gaizhou Municipality           Manchus         5,0%
Kazuo                           Meng          17,0%
Jianping                        Meng           5,0%
Henan
Xiangcheng                       Hui           6,0%
Yanshi                           Hui           5,0%
Hunan
Longshan                      Tujia/Miao      61,9%
Yongshun                      Tujia/Miao      58,6%
Ningyuan                         Yao           7,0%
Hainan
General Forestry Company    Counties to be
identified
Tongza                            Li           90%
Miao           7%
Sichuan
Maoxian                         Qiang         89,0%
Gansu     i
Zhangchuan                       Hui          69,0%
Table A2.6
Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries in Pilot PE Counties
Province  Project    Social       Ethnic        Beneficiaries in Pilot Townships
County     Assessment   SA Team       Total        Ethnic Minorities
_____Completion  Members   Households   Households       %
Hainan    Baoting    No
Tongza     Yes          6/12                    177             177  100
Hunan       shun     Yes          NA                      841             721   86
Sichuan   Maoxian    Yes          13/14                  431             431   100
72



