Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 10457
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERU
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2204-PE)
MARCH 27, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10457-PE   Type: (PCR)
SARMIENTO,/ X31677 / T9 115/ OEDD2
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
BTORs          - Back-to-Office Reports
CIET           - Centro Interamericano de Estudios Tributarios (Interamerican
Center of Tax Studies)
COFIDE         - Corporaci6n Financiera de Desarrollo (State Development
Finance Bank, Subsidiary of CONADE)
CONADE         - Corporaci6n Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development
Corporation)
CONASEV        - Comisi6n Nacional Supervisora de Empresas Valores (Financial
Markets Regulatory Agency)
DGCP           - Direcci6n General de Cr6dito PGblico (General Directorate of
Public Credit, MEFC)
DGPF           - Direcci6n General de Politicas Fiscales (General Directorate
of Fiscal Policy, MEFC)
DGPP           - Direcci6n General de Presupuesto Pfblico (Government Central
Budget Office, MEFC)
ESAN           - Escuela Superior de Administraci6n de Negocios (School of
Business Administration, a private university)
FUNDESARROLLO  -  Fundaci6n de Desarrollo (National Development Foundation,
overseer of SES)
ICSA           -  Inversiones Cofide, S.A. (Holding Company for SOEs,
Subsidiary of CONADE)
IMF            -  Internationa] Monetary Fund
INAP           -  Instituto Nacional de Administraci6n P(iblica (National
Institute of Public Administration)
INP            -  Instituto Nacional de Planificaci6n, National Institute of
Planning
IPSS           -  Instituto Peruano de Seguridad Social (National Institute of
Social Security)
MEF/MEFC       - Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas/Ministerio de Economia
(Ministry of Economy and Finance)
OAS            - Organization of American States
PSF            - Public Sector Foundation (Same as FUNDESARROLLO)
PSM            - Public Sector Management
SES            - Senior Executive Service (Senior Executive Service)
SOE            - State Owned Enterprise
TALs           - Technical Assistance Loans
TOR            - Terms of Reference
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:    1000 soles = 1 Inti as of 01/01/86
Average Market Rates for Period
End of 1981  US$1  =   0.42 Intis
End of 1982  US$1  =   0.70 Intis
End of 1983  US$1  =   1.63 Intis
End of 1984  US$1  =   3.47 Intis
End of 1985  US$1  =  10.98 Int4.
End of 1986  US$1  =  13.95 Int4s
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oface of Dwctor-G..wal
Opeatmns Ivaluatin
M*arch 27, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on PERU -
Public Sector Management Loan (Loan 2204-PE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Peru - Public Sector Management Loan (Loan
2204-PE)," prepared by the Public Sector Management Division, Technical
Department of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tht performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT CQMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR M  AGEHENT LOAN
(LOAN 2204-PE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Ng.
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .i.i..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .
PR  I: PROJECT FROM THE BANK's PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
A.  Project Identity  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .              1
B.  Background  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .              1
C.  Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
D.  Project Design and Organization ... .  .  .   .  .    .. .          2
E.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
F. Results..                                                            4
G. Sustainability..                                                     4
H. Assessment by Component..                                            4
Improvements in Program Budgeting System  . . . . . . . . . .    4
Improvements in Senior Level Management Recruitment,
Retention, and Compensation     s.5
Public Sector Management Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Debt Management..                                                 7
Tax Administration..                                              8
Capital  Markets   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  8
Housing Investment and Savings  . . . . . . . . ... .  . . .    8
System of Short-term Macro-economic Indicators  . . . . . . .    8
National Development Corporation (CONADE) . . . . . . . . . .    9
Inversiones COFIDE, SA (ICSA)        ..9
Assistance to MEFC in Monitori.ng Investment Programs of SOEs    10
Assistance to IPSS            ..10
Individual Consultancies within the MEFC  . . . . . . . . . .   11
I. Bank and Borrower Performance         ..11
J.  Lessons to be Drawn for Future PSM Technical Assistance Projects   12
K.  Project Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
L.  Consulting Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
M.  Project Documentation and Data  ....  .  .  .     .......  .   .    15
,PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORR,OWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .   16
(none completed)
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORKATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
1.  Related Bank Loans  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  17
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (contd.)                                          Page No.
3. Loan Disbursements:
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements . . . . . . .   19
B. Cumulative Disbursements by Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
4. A. Project Firancing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
B. Project Cost Breakdown by Component . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
5.  Status of Covenants ....  .  .  .  .    . ..... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    22
6. Use of Bank Resources .................... .   25
1.  Studies and Reports Available in the Project File . . . . . . .   26
2.  Summary of Components, Activities, and Outputs  . . . . . . . .   32



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2204-PE)
PREFACE
(i)         This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector
Management Loan in Pert, for which Loan 2204-PE in the amount of US$10.2
million was approved on September 30, 1982. The Loan was closed on
December 31, 1986 (the original loan closing date was December 31, 1985).
Total disbursements amounted to $10.07 million. The amount of US$131,868 was
cancelled as of May 5, 1987.
(ii)        The POK was prepared by the Public Sector Management Division of
the LAO' Technical Department (on behalf of the LA1 Country Department). This
report is based largely upon a review of the documentation transferred to the
Bank follovi.ng the closing of the Bank Resident Mission in 1986.  This
documentat' wi may have been incomplete.  The PCR is also based upon extensive
interviews a.. h Bank staff involved in project design and implementation, as
well as discussions with the current country team who are working on many of
the issues addressed in the original project. The existence of three
evaluations of the project also facilitated preparation of this report. These
include: (a) an Interim Eraluation by the Bank's central Public Sector
Management Unit (pzepared in 1984 and issued in February 1985); (b) an
evaluation conducted by tho Peruvian Auditor General's Office (Contraloria,
December 1984); and (c) a Government contracted evaluation conducted by an
independent consultant (Peruvian Government, 1986). This PCR also reflects
the findings of two back-t.v-office reports (BTORs) (October 1985) which
focused on training and State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) in connection with a
proposed follow-up operation.
(iii)       Given the length of time that has elapsed since the project was
completed, the present Government was unable to prepare a Part II to this PCR
or comment on Part I.



- ii -
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT DOAN
(LOA   204-PE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introductin
1.          This loan was one of the first to  appart a Government sponsored
structural adjustment program in the Latin American region, and ri of the
earliest for the Bank.  The loan was both innovative and ambitiou-   It was
intended as an umbrella funding structure for activities that wc' assist the
GOP in tne arduous task of altering fundamental roles for gover;.    in tne
face of an economic and political zlimate of increasing uncertaiinty. Hosevor,
it came to serve as a mechanism for loosely controlled short-term crisis
management, with many of its activities responding to the exigencies of the
rapidly deteriorating economic environment rather than the intended
institution strengthening and transfer of management capacity. While a numrer
of achievements under the loar. made important short term contributions to the
management of principal functions of Central Government, the long term
contributions of the loan were circumscribed by deterioration in the climate
of reform in Per6 during the last two years of the Belaunde Government, by a
weakening of Government resolve to continue reform, and by weaknesses in the
design and implementation of some activities under the loan. The catastrophic
erosion of economic institutions, policies, infrastructure and production
during the Garcia Government further precluded the possibility of sustaining
reforms intended. Thus, the loan was moderately successful in its short term
operational objectives and activities and unsuccassful in its long-term
institution building objectives.
Oiective-s
2.          By addressing the key management problems at the level of the
Central Government and in State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs) the project intended
to improve overall performance of Government (see Part I, parp- 3-9). Key
objectives were:
(a)   assistance to the Central Government to (i) design and implement a
program budgeting system in each of the Ministries; (ii) improve
methods for hiring and retaining civil servants and develop an
adequate compensation system, particularly for senior managers;
(iii) assist in key policy areas such as the improvement in debt
management, public investment management, reforms in the financial
system, tax incentives and administration, and development of a
system of short-term macroeconomic indicators;



- iii -
(b)   assistance to the parastatal sector and strengthening of the
National Development Corporation (CONADE) and its subsidiary state
holding company (ICSA, and to assist selected individual SOEs;
(c)   training of public sector managers.
Implementation Experjence
3.          In presenting the loan to the Executive Directors, the Bank
correctly identified the main risks of the lending operation as the
possibility of Project failure on political grounds and the complexity and
involvement of a number of Government and private institutions. However, with
hindsight these risks were underestimated. Most of the project was
implemented during the period of the Belaunde administration (1980-1985), the
last years of which were marked by economic deterioration, growing social
unrest and disintegration of the government coalition that had supported the
project. Th# lack of consistent leadership within the MEFC over the course of
the loan and lack of strong counterpart involvement at levels below high
management further contributed to the lack of institutionalization of project
compcnents. The shift in administrations from President BelaCinde to President
Garcia (August 1985) had a further negative impact on the possibility of
implementing some consultant recommendations that had prospects for being
successful (e.g., tax), and on relations between Bank and Government more
generally. Petr( suffered a catastrophic erosion of economic institutions and
policies during the Garcia Administration (see Part I, para 8).
4.          Discrete, well-defined project activities with clear terms of
reference provided for a strong early implementation record. Major management
system improvements were designed in MEFC (budget system, debt management, tax
administration), ICSA and PESCAPERU (Part I, paras 12, 20, 25-28). However,
the systems developed were not implemented over the longer term either because
of lack of adequate counterpart involvement or the precedence of short-term
crisis management over longer-term system implementation, or both. Activities
that lacked transparency and clear direction from the beginning (eg., the PSF
and training) were not successful, even in the short term (paras 14, 16-19,
23).
Sustainability
5.          It would have been difficult to sustain any public sector
management project in the political and economic climate of post-1985 Pert.
However, evaluations conducted by the Bank in 1984 and, especially the
Government in 1986, indicated that while some high-quality technical work had
been completed by consultants hired under the project prior to the Garcia
administration, much of the work had not been "bought into" by the beneficiary
agencies. In some Instances, foreign consultants appear to have developed
systems and programs without incorporating nationals from within the
administrative structure in the process. In others, commitment of key
individuals existed at the outset, but this commitment waned as these
individuals were replaced (see Part I, paras 10 and 11).



X iv
Findings.-and Lessons Learned
6.          While few institution-building advances could have survived the
Garcia administration, there are several key lessons that can be learned from
serious problems already evident during the Belaunde years. Attempts at PSH
reform need to be limited in scope and well-focused in areas where there is
strong commitment at all levels (political, managerial, and technical),
particularly in weak and/or uncertain political and economic environments.
Successes can then serve as the basis for future reforms. The proportion of
total funding left unallocated in project design and the complexity of
activities under technical assistance loans should be kept to a minimum.
Acceptance and institutionalization depends upon the transparency of sensitive
reforms. Transparency in the funding and selection of personnel is essential
to avoid the appearance of politicization. For these reasons, technical
assistance loans tend to require greater levels of supervi3ion than other
projects. Finally, continuity in progress requires the maintenance of
commitment on the part of Government and the creation of a sense of ownership
of project activities in the institutions affected by project activities.
This sense of ownership is critical for the long term sustainability of
reforms (see Part I, paras 34-43).



P11JECT COMPLETION REPORT
BLIC '4ECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2204-PE)
PART I: PROJECT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    groiect Identity
Project Name:  Public Sector Management Project
Loan Number:   2204-PE
Regional Unit: Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country:       Perd
Sector:        Public Sector Management
B.    Background
1.          The Project had its origins in the major economic rehabilitation
effort undertaken by the Government initially in 1978 and more vigorously in
the post-1980 period. The newly elected BelaCinde Government in July 1980
named an economic team comm't ed to a stabilization and structural adjustment
program aimed at improving economic efficiency, decontrol of the economy,
promotion of the private sector, and policies aimed at job creation and
targeted bocial programs. Government made important headway in a number of
areas, including accelerated import liberalization, the streamlining of export
incentives, and efforts to create financial incentives for investors through
the rationalization and liberalization of the financial system. At the same
time, there were initial efforts to strengthen public sector institutions and
to transform the important public enterprise sector through increased
autonomy.
2.          In spite of these policy initiatives, economic performance lagged
far behind expectations and, once again, reducing public sector deficits
became the major economic challenge facing Perci's economic managers. Efforts
to gain greater expenditure control led the Government to follow a more
restrictive financial program in 1982 with the support of an IMF approved
comprehensive EFF arrangement. "'aced with mounting problems in the management
of an expanding public sector investment program, in September of 1981 the
Government of Perd requested technical assistance from the Bank to strengthen
management capabilities throughout the public sector. Appraisal in November-
December 1981, a post-appraisal in February 1982, and follow-up negotiations
in July 1982 led to Board approval in September 1982.
C.    Project Objectives and Descrigtion
3.          The project's main goal was to provide technical assistance which
would tesult in improved management throughout Perd's public sector so as to
enable the country to make better use of its scarce financial and human
resources. While the project aimed at providing the Government with more



-2-
adequate management tools and managerial staff, the Government- in a parallel
effort--intended to reduce the siza of che public sector through the sale of
enterprises to the private sector.
4.          The project, as originally designed, consisted of:
(a)   technical assistance to the Central Government (i) for the design
and implementation of a program budgeting system in each of the
Mini&tries; (ii) for the improvemert of methods for hiring and
retaining civil servants and de,.Lopment of an adequate
compensation system, particularly for senior managers; (iii)
assistance in key policy areas such as debt management, investment
planning, reforms in the financial system, and taxation;
(b)   technical assistance to the parastatal sector for upgrading and
strengthening of ICSA to make it an effective holding company for
State-owned enterprises and for improved management of a selected
number of individual State-owned enterprises; and
(c)   training (including scholarships to foreign universities) for
public sector managers through existing or newly developed courses
at two private higher education institutions and at the Central
Bans.
5.          Several additional components were added during the course of the
project, financed mainly from unallocated and reallocated funds. The
component to strengthen the Peruvian Institute of Social Security (IPSS)
pro -ideci immediate improvements in collections and reporting procedures, for
example   The 1983 budget review of SOEs offered clear and reasonable
recommendations for strengthening pricing policies in SOEs. Similarly, a
number of individual consultanciei offered sound policy advice on specific
problems such as export promotion.
D.    Project Design and Organization
6.          The inadequate managerial capacity of the State is a major
bottleneck to Peruvian development. The project correctly focused on critical
areas for improving public sector management--the budget, debt, state
enterprises, tax reform and training and compensation of public sector
managers. The technical work of many of the consultants was of high quality.
Nevertheless, several weaknesses in the deslgn of the Project hindered its
effectiveness throughout its life. A comprehensive interim evaluation of the
loan (Bank Report, June 1984) correctly identifies two key design problems.
First, the Project failed to formally include the strengthening of overall
strategic planning and policy advice in the Central Government, relying
instead on informal commitment and mechanisms for coordinating macroeconomic
policy. The result was reliance on key individuals for implementation of
project activities which proved fateful in a deteriorating economic and
political environment with high turnover at the political and technical
levels. Second, flexibility and fungibility in the use of unallocated and
reallocated project funds "created pressures, sometimes from very high
Government sources, to finance low priority activities" (Bank Report, 1984).
Third, the complexity of project activities and the involvement of numerous
organizational entities overextended the absorptive capacity of Government.



-3-
Finally, lack of clarity in the training and research  o,mponents in ESAN anc
the Universidad del Pacifico and the absence of cleac '.OR for individual
research activities resulted inA a number of studies that were only loosely
connected to the objectives of the Project (Bank Report, 1984; BTOR for
PSM II, 1985).
7.          The Project had a rather complex administrative structure with
overall supervision and coordination of project execution certered in a
project coordinator responsible to the Ministar of Finance in the MEFC.
Central Government and training components were executed directly through the
MEFC, while the parastatal rector component was executed by CONADE/ICSA. The
Project complexity was further increased by the involvement of other
institutions: the Escuela Superior de Administraci6n de Negocios (ESAN", the
Universidad del Pacifico, and the Central Banl: in the training component, the
National Institute for Public Administration (INAe) for civil service reform,
and individual SOEs in the parastatal technical assistance component. The
signing of a separate Project /greement with the Bank by CONADE/ICSA and of a
Complementary Participation Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank by other
participating institutions--the Central Bank, the National Institute of
Public Administration (INAP), ESAN, and the Universidad del Pacifico--was
intended to clarify the respective organizational obligations and
responsibilities. Similarly, upon creation of the Public Sector Foundation
(PSF) responsible for promoting the Senior Executive Service (SES), this
Foundation was to enter into contractual arrangements with Government as a
condition of loan effectiveness. There were substantial delays in the
creation of the PSF and in implementing its charter and contractual
responsibilities. Lack of clear guidelines for its use and transparency in
hiring eliminated any possibility of effectiveness.
E.    Project Implementation
8.          The failure to create a macroeconomic institutional framework, and
even to provide for early policy advisory group involvement (as required under
the Loan Agreement), hampered the sense of ownership of individually designed
systems, such as the budget system. The Policy Advisory Group was not created
until 1984, fully one and onie-half years after the signing of the Loan
Agreement. Lack of careful integration of technical personnel from
beneficiary agencies in the development and imp'lementation of systems further
hampered a sense of ownership. This absence of an institutional framework and
Peruvian ownership of the project is evident in the frequent turnovers in
Project coordination: eight different Project Coordinators supervised the
activities of the project from within MEFC over the lfe of the project, and
only the last two coordinated the project on a full-t.me basis (Peruvian
Government Evaluation, 1986). This rapid change in Project coordination
signaled the lack of Government commitment to the Project as well as the
deterioration within the MEFC. Also, in the absence of overall policy
direction individual components were relatively isolated from each other and a
coherent institutional framework. In addition, the lack of strong countarpart
involvement at levels below high level managemant in each stage of the design
and implementation work resulted in reluctance to accept and to implement
recommendations from international consultancs. Interim evaluations note, for
example, the relative isolation of (extremely well paid) consultants from the
functioning staff of the MEFC (Bank Report, 1984; Peruvian Government, 1986)
which further diminished the project's sustainability. Recent discussions



-4-
with personnel from the Office of the Public Budget (DGPP) suggest a similar
isolation of consultants, especially the international firms.
F.    Results
9.          The areas where the project had the greatest success include the
strengthening of ICSA management, the initial short-term assistance in
preparation of the 1982 budget, the tax administration activities by CIET, and
assistance to IPSS and to PESCAPERU. However, given the unstable political
and economic environment many of the results from these activities were not
sustained. The greatest weaknesses in the project include efforts to
establish a functioning PSF, the linking of training and research activities
to public sector management, and the establishmant of a macroeconomi^~
framework for sustaining many of the individual activities.
G.    Sustainabilitv
10.         It would have been difficult to sustain any public sector
management project in the political and economic climate of post-1985 Perd.
However, evaluations conducted by the Bank (1984) and the Government (1986)
indicate that prior to the assumption of power by the Garcia Administration in
1985, many project activities had not been "bought into" by the beneficiary
agencies. In some instances, foreign consultants appear to have developed
systems and programs without incorporating nationals from within the
administrative structure in the process. In others, commitment of key
individuals existed at the incepticn of the project, but this commitment waned
as these individuals were replaced. Institution-wide commitment was not
inculcated. In addition, the lack of strong counterpart involvement at levels
below high level management in each stage of the design and implementation
work resulted in reluctance to accept and to implement recommendations from
international consultants. While a number of achievements under the loan made
important short term contributions to the management of principal functions of
Central Government, the long term contributions of the loan were circumscribed
by deterioration in the climate of reform in Per(i under the Belaunde
Government, by a weakening of Government resolve to continue reform, and by
weaknesses in the design and implementation of some activities under the loan
(para. 6). The catastrophic erosion of economic institutions, policies,
infrastructure and production during the Garcia Government further precluded
the possibility of sustaining reforms intended under the loan. Thus, the loan
was moderately successful in its short term operational objectives and
activities and unsuccessful in its long-term institution building objectives.
11.         As the present government embarks on efforts to revitalize
economic activity and effective public sector action, it could be appropriate
to examine the degree to which some of the management systems developed unde.
the project, and described below, could be revitalized.
H.    Assessment by ComRonent
12.         Imptovements in Program Budgeting System (USS1.878.000).  A
principal subcomponent of technical assistance to the Central Government was
to be the design and implementation of a program budgeting system within the
central budget office of MEFC and in each of the Ministries. The immediate
decision to assist in the examination of the 1982 budget (prior to loan



-5-
effectiveness) as a means for gaining systematic control and understanding of
the budget system was excellent. This action provided tangible short-term
results.  The component was successful in the design of a more effective
budgeting system for the Central Government: in the creation of a more
rationalized expenditure classification system; in linking (partially)
expenditures to program objectives; and in creating a computerized system for
budget preparation, for expenditure authorization, and for budget execution
reporting. Aggressive action on the part of consultants and the existence of
high level governmental support for these activities early in the project
added to the success of the design of this activity.
13.         However, implementation of systems was more problematic, partially
a result of: the deterioration of the economic situation in PerC in which
short-term crisis management took precedence over development of longer-term
systems; decreasing high-level support and leadership for the control over
budget authorization, personnel, and salary payments; and the strong
perception that consultants were "in charge," rather than serving a role of
transferring needed skills to a trained counterpart group in government. The
relative isolation of consultants and a small counterpart group meant that
implementation fell short of goals. Weaknesses in the development of a
toherent macroeconomic framework, coupled with limited creation of improved
institutionalized technical capacity within the DGPP, resulted in short-term
exigencies overwhelming longer term budget rationalization. While software
was developed, institutionalizing the use of programs as part of the budgetary
process did not occur. The end result is that the systems developed to assist
in the budget process have remained dormant, including a 1986 set of
recommendations by an independent consultant regarding budget management and
investments. When asked in November 1990 the status of the budget programs
developed, personnel in the Direcci6n General de Presupuesto P(blico indicated
that the software was "somewhere," but not in use. Key personnel in the DGPP
noted that there was no integration of the software system.
14.         Im_rovements_iLn Senior Level Management Recruitment. Retention
and ComDensation (USS40.000). Perd's civil service, established in 1950, had
degenerated over the years, mainly as a result of rapid expansion of
government employment and er-oding compensation. There was no well-defined
system of vigorous qualification standards for recruitment and career
advancement. As a result, good managers were scarce in the government
service. The Project aimed to prevent the loss of top managers through the
creation of a Senior Executive Service (SES) which would not be subject to the
limitations of the civil service salary scale, and a Public Sector Foundation
(PSF) which would finance the SES through contributions of public and private
enterprises. Of all of the components in the Project,, this one experienced
the greatest difficulty. Virtually none of the original allocation
(US$700,000) was actually disbursed. Only about $4A,000 was used for a
technical study on how the operation of the SES by PSF would function. As the
Bank's Interim Evaluation of the Project notes, while the effort was
innovative and forward-looking, it was plagued from the outset by political
controversy. The requirement that the PSF contract with Government to
establish and operate the SES was not established until March 1984. No clear
proposals or terms of reference for technical studies to determine the
function of PSF existed until September 1984. Criteria for recruitment,
retention, pay structure, obligations of members, and other activities of the
PSF were never firmly established. A technical study finally contracted in



- 6 -
November 1984 did lead to a series of recommendations regarding norms and
criteria for selection and development of SES personnel, including
recommendations about turnover, definitions of beneficiaries, and training.
However, the PSF had become a source of political patronage long before firm
systems were designed. Both the source of funds for the PSF and the use of
funds by the PSF remained unclear, as did its accountability. The PSF became
a politic-1 institution and came under public criticism for rewarding
political supporters rather than providing a neutral, professional pool of
executive talent to assist in the pursuit of developmental goals.
15.         In order for the PSF to achieve any of its objectives, there was a
clear need for tra..sparency in all aspects of the use of the SES, especially
in the sources and uses of funds and in the criteria for recruitment and
retention of members. Lack of transparency clearly made the SES and the
FUNDESARROLLO appear politically motivated and driven. The role and
activities of the SES and the PSF needed to be defensible before the Peruvian
Congress, public opinion, and within the bureaucracy of government itself.
Instead, it was perceived as a means of political patronage. While the
concept of the SES and more profound civil service reform was (and remains) a
valid and critical element in the improvement of effective public
administration in Perd, the implementation of this proposal would have
required careful design, supervision, and control to assure that it did not
become a means of political patronage.
16.         Public Sector Management Training (USS1.650.000).  A third major
activity under the Project was the development and implementation of public
sector management training programs aimed at igh level managers in ESAN and
the Universidad de Pacifico. The Central Bank did not participate as
originally envisaged and there were no externally recruited professionals or
overseas scholarships as foreseen in the President's Report. This component
represented 7.8% of project funds in the original allocation of funds, but
accounted for more than 16% of actual project costs.
17.         Activities under this subcomponent were not well defined at
appraisal or in the loan documents. A number of activities (research and
curricular) that were not directly related to the goals of the project were
carried out. For example, one study conducted under the auspices of the
Universidad del Pacifico and financed under the loan focused on the broad
sweep of the role of the Paris Club; another provides a discussion of large-
scale housing projects in Per(t and the role of the Junta Nacional de Vivienda;
a third study focuses attention on territorial problems between Ecuador and
PerCi. While interesting, their relevance to the project is somewhat
stretched. Studies financed were not always clearly structured, contracts for
studies were not prepared, and cost monitoring for specific studies was weak.
Separate audits for ESAN and Pacifico were conducted, but supervision of thu
studies in terms of costs and quality was uneven and there was a widespread
perception that consultants and professors had received exorbitant salaries
compared to local norms (PSI  II BTOR, October 1985).  While a graduate program
in management was created at Pacifico as a part of the Project, several
reviews suggest that the program was not serving to funnel personnel into
public service.
18.         Several additional difficulties can be noted:



-7-
(a)   In the absence of closer supervision by Government, the
universities appeared to pursue their own institutional goals
rather than the goal of strengthening public sector management in
Government;
(b)   Often, research activities were less applied than theoretical,
making their utility to serving the strengthening of public sector
management less apparent;
(c)   The number of individuals trained by the institutions, both
through in-service seminars and workshops and in curricular
programs within the institutions, appear to be far fewer than
anticipated, and much more eypensive on a unit basis (i.e., cost
per trainee); and
(d)   Case study materials prepared as training devices were not
carefully supervised for applicability and utility.
19.         While the focus on strengthening these two institutions to better
serve the needs of public sector management was an appropriate activity under
the loan, there was clearly a need to provide more direct supervision and
clear leadership of these activities. The design of the project correctly
recognizes that effective and sustainable reform in administration requires
the existence of supportive training and research activities. As several
evaluations note, shortcomings in this subcomponent may have been a result of
turnover in project coordination, lack of a Government counterpart in
training, loose accountability, and a failure in sustained supervision of this
component by the Bank (Peruvian Government, 1986; Bank Rep .t, 1984).
20.         Studies to Strengthen the Public Sector in Key Poicy-Areas
(USS2.083.000). A fourth subcomponent contemplated the provision of technical
assistance and the execution of a number of studies in key policy areas for
the strengthening of public sector management. One key area was the
strengthening of debt management by the central government. The consultants
proposed a new legal and institutional framework to clarify reporting and
control relationships by type of debt (long-term, short-term, central
government, minority/majoricy-owned SOEs), and the responsibilities of the
principal debt control agencies. One MEFC staff member was also trained in
New York and an in-house seminar on how to run computer programs was conducted
in Liwa. This activity resulted in more rapid reporting of accounts payable
over the period 1983/84. While the consultants succeeded in developing a
potentially effective computerized system for debt reporting and recording,
the exigencies of short term debt refinancing resulted in less-thaui-effective
use of Government resources for institutionalizing this system. Alfo,
inadequate involvement of staff of the Directorate of Public Credit (DGCP) in
the work of the consultants resulted in weak efforts to implement consultant
recommendations and the computerized system. The failure to create legal
mechanisms for requiring entities of the State to provide debt information
meant that the system was not fully effective. Lack of Government commitment
is evident as well in the failure to provide DGCP with the authority to
enforce debt ceilings and to use unofficial data as a means of verification of
indebtedness of entities. Corflicts and the lack of coordination between the
Central Bank and the Banco de la Naci6n also hampered implementation.



-8-
21.         Several other studies, including strengthening tax administration,
streamlining tax incentives systems, and strengthening lint among tax systems
at various levels of government, produced sound policy rec-wmandations for
improving collections and administration, as well as an analysis of the legal
norms affecting tax administration, including substitute texts for then
current legislation. The main recommendations -if the consultants were to:
(a)   Develop a more selective system of incentives eliminating:
incentives which are biased toward capital-intensive production
methods, the automatic and indefinite duration of benefits,
incentive relating to the general sales tax, the credit for
reinvestment of profits, and most geographically specific
incentives;
(b)   Reduce the excessive tax burden on some income groups by setting a
maximum rate of 45%, reducing the number of brackets from 14 to 7
and restructuring the tax schedule, while also making the system
more comprehensive and fair by overhauling and simplifying
deductions and exclusions;
(c)   Strengthen the regional and local tax systems and improve revenue
sharing; and
(d)   Make the incentives for nontraditional exports more cost effective
and bring them in line with international agreements with a view
to avoiding retaliatory duties.
22.         Studies by the Centro Interamericano de Estudios Tributarios
(CIET) led to the promulgation of several changes in legal and regulatory
codes. Clear TOR from the General Directorate of Fiscal Policy (DGPF) and the
high quality of collaboration with personnel in DGPF resulted in satisfactory
performance of these study components. The objectives of studies conducted
for the Corporaci6n Nacional Supervisora de Valores (CONASEV) on capital
mar,kets and housing investment and savings in Perd were less well defined.
There appears to have been no efforts to carry these studies beyond the
diagnostic stage.
23.         Finally, the development of a system of short-term macro-economic
indigagors for improved management was intended to provide Government (MEFC)
with a means for linking fiscal and monetary policy and balance of payments
for the near term. While a set of reports and systems for collecting and
incorporating indicators were developed under the project, it is clear that
changing political realities by the end of 1984 resulted in weaknesses in the
implementation of these activities. Much political controversy surrounded the
high cost of the provision of services under this consultancy And the
propriety of the contract itself. A national consulting firm received a total
of US$540,000 for assistance rendered over the period of one year (1984) for
the services of three consultants. The consultants did provide reports and a
basic data system of economic information for use in conjunction with the
development of an annual economic program. However, once again, failures in
the development of a coherent macro-economic institutional framework, coupled
with deep institutional and political rivalries in Perd, affected the
implementation of the system of indicators to be used for macro-economic
projections.



-9-
24.         Reforms in the Parastatal Sector (USS736.000).  Assistance to the
parastatal sector in Perd proved difficult to carry out given the unwieldy
nature of the sector, its haphazard expansion in the 1970s, weaknesses in
central government control over the direction and monitoring of performance in
the sector, weaknesses in the performance of many of the individual SOEs, and
increasing Government unwillingness to encourage alterations of State-SOE
relations.
25.         Earlier efforts to rationalize the sector led to the creation of
the National Development Corporation (CONADE) to review SOE plans and
investment projects, to review individual SOE performance and possible
improvements, and to bring SOEs under a single management roof. In addition,
a separate holding company had been created prior to this loan, Inversiones
CQFIDE.- SA (ICSA) with the purpose of bringing SOEs under one central control
and of divesting approximately 60 SOEs. Reducing the confusion of the roles
of these entities was one of the functions of assistance to the sector.
26.         The project design included two subcomponents to assist in
rationalizing this sector. The first was to provide technical assistance to
ICSA and train staff in order to strengthen its capacity as a holding company
and secretariat to CONADE. A management information system was to be designed
to provide effective guidance for and financial control over SOEs. Finally, a
survey of all major SOEs to determine critical problems in identified key
parastatals was to be conducted. Principal achievements under this
subcomponent include:
(a)   Strengthening of ICSA management control through the establishment
of a str4tegic planning and management by objectives system (MBO)
for establishing jointly agreed targets for subsidiary SOEs;
(b)   Effective control over smaller SOEs by ICSA through the
development of a management information system;
'c)   Improvements in ICSA capacity to assist performance in firms held.
(d)   Intensive studies of several large parastatals (AeroPerd, Sociedad
Paramonga Ltda., Cementos Yura, Palma Aceitera S.A., SIDERPERU)
were conducted, although the original intention of a survey of all
major SOES was altered by ICSA.
Both Bank and Government evaluations note, however, that the MBO system was
too generic and not adapted to the reality of public enterprises in Per(.
This component was reasonably successful in the design of systems and
technically competent recommendations and activities were evident. Weaknesses
in implementation can be accounted for by the deteriorating economic and
political climate.of Per4 and a lack of sustained political will, by the
pressing demands of short term problems, and by the lack of careful adaptation
of systems to Per(. There were, however, some significant achievements in the
improvement of the management and activities of SIDERPERU, including a
dramatic reduction in inventories, the reduction of a small portion of excess
workers and a debt refinancing scheme negotiated by ICSA.
27.         In addition, an activity under this subcomponent, unforeseen in
the original project design, was intended to provide assistance to CONADE to



- 10 -
clarify and to strengthen its supervisory role. Assistance to CONADE resulted
in recommendations that CONADE be restructured as an autonomous institute
reporting to the President rather than a holding company in competition with
ICSA and in conflict with central management in MEFC. These recommendations
were not implemented, a result of Government unwillingness to place SOEs more
clearly under Inversiones COFIDE, to alter CONADE's role, and to separate ICSA
and Inversiones COFIDE, SA, and to privatize agreed upon SOEs. In part, the
weakness of this activity was the result of failure of the consultants to
recognize the reality of relationships between line ministries and their SOEs,
as well as the complicated nature of the interactions among MEFC, CONADE, and
ICSA. This unwillingness to alter these organizational relationships became
more pronounced with the transition to the Garcia Administration.
28.         A second subcomponent called for the provision of technical
assistance to individual SOEs to strengthen performance. Only 35.5% of the
projected funds were disbursed due to the failure of SOEs, with the exception
of PESCAPERU, to apply for assistance. In the case of PESCAPERU, assistance
aimed to devise and implement a new strategy for the state fishing industry
given changes in both the quantity and type of fish currently available in
Peruvian waters. The report offered the Ministry a clear review of existing
conditions and alternatives for the industry, and realistic recommendations by
the consultants were well received by the then Minister of Fisheries. These
recommendations focus on the establishing of production quotas (i.e.,
catches), the commercial viability of alternative fish, readjustments in
personnel levels in the Ministry, and criteria for the reorganization of the
Ministry. However, later efforts to reduce the staff which were recommended
by the consultants proved impossible to implement. Again, initial strong
support and leadership for reform by the Head of PESCAPERU proved short-lived,
and the institutionalization of reform efforts was not accomplished in the
face of changes in PESCAPERU's management, the deteriorating political
climate, and increasing Government unwillingness and opposition to the
implementation of reforms in the public enterprise sector.
29.         Assistance to MEFC in Monitoring Investment Programs of SOEs
(USS860.945). Work conducted for the MEFC on public investment monitoring and
a review of the investment program of SOEs for 1983 did not prove effective
over the longer run. This component, while not originally included in the
Project, fits within the framework of assistance to strengthen the management
of SOEs. A lack of Belaunde Government willingness to strengthen central
control of SOEs generally weakened efforts to carry out the consultants'
recommendations. While the study offers sound policy advice, particularly
with regard to pricing policies in SOEs, Government failed to implement
recommendations. Little long term institutional development of Government
capacity to review SOEs was developed through the consultancy, little training
and few procedural mechanisms for continued monitoring were provided.
Problems of monitoring and controlling SOE investment activities in the
political climate of the project were in part a result of Government's lack of
commitment, but also suggest a failure on the part of consultants to
appreciate political realities in Per(± in providing recommendations.
30.         Assistance to IPSS (USS1.357.000).  This component had originally
been included in project preparation, but was later excluded on the basis of
its potential lack of political viability. The component was reintroduced in
1983 at the urging of Government and with support from the Resident



- 11 -
Representative. The objectives were to assist IPSS to monitor revenues,
improve the quality of social security coverage, anc. to rationalize the
administrative procedures and expenditures of IPSS. This component proved to
be a major positive contribution of the Project. C'ne partial evaluation
(Peruvian Government, 1986) indicates that a number of key achievements can be
cited: improved collections as the result of the rationalization of a system
of information and control; reconciliation of IPSS budget management in line
with the system introduced within MZFC (by the same consultant); improvements
in services provided to users in clinics; centralization of procurement
procedures; reductions in the time necessary for the processing of social
security cards (from 30 days to 3-4 days); studies of individual clinics and
the National Hospitals to systematize contracting arrangements and budget
procedures; and a reduction in the backload of claims by more than 50% and a
reduction in the processing time for claims to four days. The success of this
component is in no small part the result of the prior work and understanding
done by the consultant group in PerCi and close collaboration with technical
staff in IPSS.
31.         Finally, a number of individual consultancies were financed from
the unallocated or reallocated loan funds for a variety of tasks within the
*MEFC. Consultants were used to provide advice primarily through technical
notes on specific operational problems--relations with the IMF, Aide Memoires
for meetings with international financial agencies, drafts of speeches for the
Minister before Congress or international meetings. In some cases, this
foreign technical expertise provided personal technical assistance to various
Vice Ministers within MEFC. While the efforts of some of these (highly paid)
foreign technical experts provided much needed support for timely operational
activities, there is little evidence of lasting institutional effects from
their activities. In at least one case, no final report was produced; yet,
the two consultants who comprised the firm were paid a sum total of US$300,000
for 'policy advice" over the course of one year (one at a daily rate of
US$3,000 for 24 days in 1984/85). While there is no correspondence in the
project file indicating Bank approval of the contract, payments from the loan
were made in the amounts indicated.
A.    Bank and Borrower Performance
32.         The Bank correctly focused on the most critical areas requiring
improvements at the design stage--the budget, debt, state enterprises, tax
reform, and training and compensation of public sector managers. However,
weaknesses in supervision and coordination by Government, coupled with the
flexibility and fungibility in the allocation of Project funds (see para. 37),
placed a premium on the supervision of the Project by the Bank. This
supervision centered in the office of the Bank's Resident Representative who
had been closely involved in all stages of the design and appraisal of the
Project. Because of this special understanding of the objectives of and
activities under the Project, supervision by Bank staff in Washington appears
to have been very limited, despite requests by the Resident Representative
that a project officer be appointed from Headquarters. The time recorded for
supervision in the Bank's former time recording system significantly
underestimated the time devoted to this project by the Resident
Representative. While this type of Bank supervision provided for continuity
in the absence of Government supervision in certain components (e.g., Central
Government activities especially in MEFC, strengthening of IPSS), formal



- 12 -
management of the project from Headquarters by a project officer supported by
appropriate technical specialists would have: (i) relieved the Resident
Representative from a very staff-intensive task, particularly given his other
heavy responsibilities; (ii) removed the Resident Representative from the
burden of responding to requests for financing for low-priority activities
(sometimes from high level government officials); and (iii) enabled closer
supervision of some activities for which TOR and guidelines had not been
clearly developed (e.g., ESAN and Pacifico studies) or for which the
unallocated and reallocated resources (30% of the project) financed activities
not foreseen at the design stage.
33.         While Borrower support for the project at the political level was
strong at its inception, that support dissipated as key officials were
replaced.  The project was dogged throughout .   life by the high turnover of
project coordinators, the delay in forming the project advisory group, and
lack of support at the technical levels of the beneficiary agencies. During
the final years of the Belaunde administration attention was diverted to
short-term crisis management, particularly relating to debt. It became
increasingly difficult to interest the Government beset with fiscal and debt
crises to build public sector management systems for the longer term. The
advent of the Garcia administration in 1985 brought on a period of further
confusion during which most of the previous Government's programs, including
this one, were disavowed and little could have sur-\Lved.
J.    Lessons To be Drawn for Future PSM Technical Assistance Projects
34.         In view of the situation described in para. 33 above, most of the
lessons learned from this project relate to the period of the Belaunde
administration. These are of relevance both for the broader issues of
TAL/PSMLs, as well as for any future role for PSM assistance in Perd.  Given
the gravity of the crisis in Pera today these lessons are of special
importance: the public service has deteriorated even further; the economy is
in worse condition; and the technical capacity of Pert to manage the economy
is less viable. The lessons are relevant, however, only to the extent that
there is an adequately stable political environment in which to operate.
This was not the case in Perd during much of the period of loan
implementation.
35.         First, several lessons from some of the less successful aspects of
this project have already been put into practice by the Bank in the Latin
American Region:
(a)   full TOR are required for key positions or studies (e.g., the
SES/PSF and training components) at appraisal;
(b)   performance indicators to be used in periodic evaluations are
included in the legal documentation; during these evaluations
remedies for non-performing components are considered, including
suspension and cancellation;
(c)   the unallocated category in the loan agreement for activities to-
be-defined is limited to about 10% or less of total project funds;
and



- 13
(d)   PSM/TA project design and supervision is the responsibility of
Headquarters.
36.         Second, PSM/TALs should not be overly ambitious, particularly in
turbulent administrative and political environments. Size of loan, complexity
of operation, and the number of component activities all tax the capabilities
of borrowers as well as the Bank. A smaller, more focused, loan with fewer
components is more likely to succeed.
37.         Third, unallocated funds should be kept to a minimum.  Some 32% of
disbursed funds had either been unallocated at the time of Board approval
(20%) or were reallocated fr.,m components that were not implemented (12%)
(e.g., SES and SOE reform).
38.         Fourth, prior to Board presentation it shou'.d be assured that
there is a core Rolicy group at the ministerial level who serve to provide
policy direction for issues and activities under the loan and more generally.
Such a group can help ensure implementation of consultant recommendations.
"Ownership" of the policy direction must be evident at the highest levels in
order for policy initiatives to filter down to the technical and operational
levels. Commitment to the objectives of the loan has to exist at the
political, managerial and technical levels and not simply depend on a few high
level managers.
39.         Fifth, supe--ision by the Bank and the Borrower on a continuous
and intensive basis is paramount.
(a)   Bank supervision coefficients should take into account that
TAL/PSMs frequently address politically sensitive issues and
complex Government structures and are inherently more staff
intensive than most projects.
(b)   The need for continuity in the Project Coordinator is critical.
This project had eight coordinators over its four year life. One
means to achieve this continuity may be through the strengthening
of Government supervisory role as noted below.
(c) Mechanisms need to be established to ensure follow-up on -
recommendations of consultants (including putting into practice
systems developed) and depoliticize the use of loan funds. The
condition contained in the loan documents to create an Advisory
floard, which did not occur until August 1984, did not result in
adequate operational linkages between the advisory board and
project management. Closer linkage in practice might have
resulted in greater stability in the exercise of management
functions.
40.         Sixth, there was a conflict between short term exigencies and the
long term needs of strategic institution building.  There is a need to build
credibility for the project (and often for consultants) and legitimacy for
Government in the short term, while there is also a need to build toward
longer *erm solutions. In this project clearly the use of consultants to
assist in the 1982 budgeting process strengthened their capacity to introduce
and inculcate a belief in the value of rationalizing budgeting procedures.



14 -
However, short-term exigencies often o arwhelmed the project during the last
years of the Belaunde administration, e.g., debt management became overwhelmed
by debt refinancing r.eds. Implementation of some longer term recommendations
became residual concerns as Government was "committed" to the short run. If
the orientation of the project changes from long-term institution building
(the basis on which this project was approved by the Bank's Board) to short-
term fire fighting, the Bank's management should be advised and a decision
taken as to whether to continue.
41.         Seventh, for many project ac.ivities there was a failure to ensure
adequate local counterpart collaboration; a tendency to "get the job done" and
problems solved by external TA rather than transferring a sense of shared
purpose and technology; weak prescriptive design criteria on the use of
external TA; and a tendency to ignore local expertise in favor of (sometimes
very high priced) external TA. A parallel structure within MEFC was created
and line staff in the Ministry were left out.  Hostility between consultants
and line staff resulted in some cases, exacerbated by negative public
perceptions of the project (see para 45). TA should lead to self-reliance.
Good examples in this project include the OAS/CIET tax administration work
done and close collaboration in the DGPF.
42.         Eighth, in countries where there are sensitivities to what are
perceived to be high consultant fees, consideration might be given to the
following alternative approaches: (i) utilizing high level/high fee/high
profile consultants intermittently for short periods, rather than over
extended periods which seems to exacerbate resentment; and (ii) in cases where
resentment of highly remunerated consultants is strong enough to jeopardize
acceptance of their recommendations, it may be preferable to accept lower
cost, perhaps less experienced regional or national consultants, whose work is
of adequate quality and may have a better chance of acceptance. This may have
greater impact for the longer term. Each task manager would have to make a
judgement in this regard on a case by case basis.
43.         Ninth, there is a need for transRarency in areas where the
potential for political controversy is high. In this case, efforts to improve
the efficiency of senior public sector personnel, particularly in activities
that involve salary supplements .for personnel, were consummately political and
controversial. Topping of salaries as a means for reducing wage compression
may be a temporary stop-gap measure to retain qualified senior management in
the public sector. However, transparency in rules, including selection
criteria, job descriptions, salary levels, and obligations of beneficiaries,
and funding accountability is essential. One result may be that "topping" may
not be as high. The creatior. of the Senior Executive Service, to be financed
through FUNDESARROLLO, may have been well-intentioned, but the same rules of
transparency and the maintenance of the image that this is not a sinecure is
critical for its survival and utility.
K.    Proiect RelationshiRs
44.         Bank rel.tionship with Government and with participating entities
remained quite good during the first years of the project, despite turnovers
in MEFC management and high turnover in project coordinators. The project
required heavy supervision by the Bank and its Resident Representative to
ensure that project implementation remained on track. However, in the final



- 15 -
two years of the Belaunde administration and the first year of the Garcia
administration, Bank/Borrower relationships deteriorated to the point of
rendering much of the project unsustainable.
L.    Consulting Services
45.         From the records available it appears that in many cases the
consultant services were of high quality and consultants were recrAted in
accordance with Bank norms requiring a competition. However, several problems
were evident from the project's inception. The President's Report (1982)
itself foresaw an estimated average man/month cost of US$16,300. The average
in fact somewhat exceeded that amount. There was a strong sense among working
level counterparts (and later among the managerial level staff) that the
consultants had "taken charge" and were working in isolation from them. This
problem was compounded by the widespread view that the consultants were being
excessively remunerated. The lack of strong counterpart involvement at levels
below high level management in all stages of the design a-ad implementation of
the work resulted in the reluctance to accept and implement recommendations of
the international consultants. Finally, the mid-term evaluation noted that
durin3 the Belaunde administration, the recruitment of a substantial number of
consultants with the 30% of unallocated or reallocated funds to undertake work
not foreseen in the original loan documentation contributed to press
speculation about a "secret" Bank project. This, combined with media charges
of excessive consultant remuneration, led to a negative public perception of
the project. Unfortunately, the high technical quality of much of the
consultant's work was obscured.
M.    Project Documentation andc_;iata
46.         The main documents governing project impleaentation were the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Project, Loan, and Complementary Project Agreements, and
a comprehensive Interim Evaluation which offered important insights into the
talative strengths and weaknesses of ongoing activities. Most initial project
documents were carefully prepared, although the complexity of design may have
contributed to difficulties in implementation. As noted in para 17, however,
the loan requirements that provided the foundation for research and training
activities for ESAN and Universidad del Pacifico were relatively vague and did
not call for specific targets for activities. The proportion of total funds
left unallocated in the project design offered an opportunity for including a
number of potentially successful components during implementation; however, it
also meant that project documentation could not fully reflect these activities
at the outset, and that some subsequent activities were not provided with
clear direction. Because of the length of time from project termination to
completion of this PCR, and because of the absenc3 of complete project files,
reconstruction of the activities and results of this project has proven
difficult.
47.         Conclusion.  Despite weaknesses in performance and difficulties in
achieving lasting results in the case of the Per(t Public Sector Management
Loan," the Bank should examine carefully the possibility of utilizing much
positive work carried out under the loan as it considers beginning activities
in Pert anew. Strengthening the core institutions of borrowers is a
prerequisite for the success of structural adjustment and sector adjustment
policies and programs, and government performance generally over the long
term.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2204-PE)
PART II:   ORROWER'ASSESSMENT OF THE PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Borrower was requested to prepare Part II or comment on Part I
but was unable 1o do so, given the length of time since the projects's close,
the change of administration, and limited staff who are focusing on current
urgent problems.



- 17 -
PROJECT CAOMpLETION REORT
PER
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2204-PE,
PART III: 6,ATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.    Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan titLe                      Purpose               approval    Status              Comments
1. Industrial Credit        To support the financing           1976      Closed   The final closing was
Project (Loan            through COFIDE of manufac-                             6/30/83, two years later
1358-PE)                 turing and tourism projects                            than initialty contem-
plated. USS2.9 million of
the loan was cancelled.
2. AvIation Development    To Improve civil-aviation           1981      Closed   The final closing was
(Peruana and COFIDE)    in Peru including through                               12/31/87, one year behind
(Loan 1963-PE)           construction and improving                             schedule.  US$38.75 mil-
of airports and improving                              lion was cancelled.
safety and related
equipent.
3. Second Industrial        To support the financing of        1981       Closed   The final closing was
Credit Project (Loan   manufacturing and tourism                                12/31/87, two and a half
1968-PE)                 projects through financial                             years later than initially
intermediaries having                                  contemplated.  USS20.3
access to Bank funds which                             million of the loan was
COFIDE would channel.  Also                            cancelled.
to support modification of
the public sector financial
system.                        _
4. Power Engineering        To ensure adequate and             1981      Closed   The final closing date was
(Emprosa Electrifi-      timely prepdration of power                            6/30/90  three years later
dad and COFIDE)          projects through prepara-                              than Initially contem-
(Loan 2018-PE)           tion of prefeasibilIty and                             plated.  USS5.96 million
feasibility studies and TA.                            was cancelled.
5. Small-Scale Enter-       To finance Small-Scale             1981      Closed   The final closing date was
prise Project (Loan      Enterprise through                                     12/31/87, two years later
2064-PE)                 financial intermediaries                               than Initially contem-
which will discount theIr                              plated.  USS0.75 mtllion
loans with the SSE unit                               of the loan was cancelted.
within COFIDE. USS750,000
would be allocated for
technical assistance to
COfIDE's staff and staff of
financial Intermediaries.       _I_____
6. Lim  Water SJpply        To provide water and sewer-        1982      Closed   The final closing date wa&
and Sewerag              age services to low-Income                             4/27/89. one year behind
(SEDAPAL  nd SENAPA      Inhabitants of Lima                                    schedule.  USS14.6 million
and COFIDE) (Loan                                                               was cancelled.
2139-PE)               ___                                                               _



- 18 -
Table 2.    Project Timetable
Original Loan Dates         Actual
Initiating Memorandum         October 1981
Negotiations                  July 1982
Board Approval                September 30, 1982
Loan Agreement                December 16, 1982
Effectiveness                 March 16, 1983               April 21, 1983
Loan Closing                  December 31, 1985            December 31, 1986
Loan Completion               June 30, 1985                June 30, 1986



- 19 -
Table 3.    Loan Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$'000)
Bank FY
1983      1984       12985     196        1i9
Appraisal Estimate                   4.0        8.0      10.0       10.2       0.00
Actual                               2.8        6.6        9.1       9.7      10.07
Actual as % of Estimate               70         82         91        95          0
Date of Final Disbursement           April 4, 1987
B.  Cumulative Disbursements by Quarter
Disbursements (In S Million) Loan 2204-PE
Estimated           Actual          Actual % of
Bank FY           Ouarter         Cumulative         Cumulative         Estimated
1982/83              1               -
2               1.50                                    0
3               3.00                                    0
4              4.00                2.82                70
1983/84              1               5.00               3.72                 74
2               6.00               4.40                73
3              7.00                5.32                76
4               8.00               6.62                82
1984/85              1               8.50               6.98                 82
2              9.00                7.99                88
3              9.50                8.53                89
4              10.00               9.11                91
1985/86              1              10.20               9.26                 90
2             10.20                9.26                90
3             10.20                9.74                95
4              10.20               9.76                95
1986/87              1              A/                  9.98                 98
2             A/                  10.00                98
3             a/                  10.06                99
4                                 10.07a/              99
A/    Loan closing date 12/31/86.
k/    Formally revised loan final amount after cancellation of the unspent
balance of $131,000.



- 20 -
Table 4
A.  Project Financing
Amount of
the Loan
AlLocated
(Expressed         X of
in Dollar     Expenditures
Sr,urce                    Catecorv                 Ecuivalent)   to be Flnanced       Revised      ActuaL
IBRD          (1) Goods for Part A of the Project         100,000   100% of foreign               -     196,090
(Budgeting, INAP/SES, Training,                   expenditures and
Financial System Reform, Debt, Tax                70X of local
Macro Indicatoes)                                 expenditures
(2) ConsuLtant services for Part A of    4,500,000   100X                           -  9,163,776
the Project
(3) Approved ICSA Projects                  500,000                                       554,528
(a) Goods thereunder                              100X of foreign
expenditures and
70% of locaL
expenditures
*b) Consultant services thereunder                100X
(4) Approved Subloans (CONADE &           2,200,000   100X                          -           0
various Beneficiaries)
(5) Scholarships abroad and professors      800,000   100X of foreign               -       3,000
for Part A.3 of the Project                       expenditures
(6) Fee under Section 2.05 of this          150,739   Amount due                    -     150,740
Agreement (front-end fee)
(7) Unallocated                           1.949.261
Total                            10,200,000
Ceo-financing -
Domestic      -                                         ____Tt0 03
Total                            10. 200.000   -¶0.200.000  10. 068.134



- 21 -
Table 4
B. Proiect Cost Breakdown by Component
Alloca-
tion in     Disburse-
President's     ments
rgojiect Components                                ReRort   (12/31/86)*
A. FEg&ESR,N IN ORIGINAL PROJECT DESIGN                                6,948,000
1. Program Budgeting                                       2,100,000   1,878,000
2. Compensation, SES                                         700,000      40,000
3. Policy Assistance                                       1,800,000   2,131,000
a. Debt Reporting                                               -   1,325,000
b. Investment Monitoring
c. Studies
Tax Reform                                                         193,000
Macro Indicators                                             -     583,000
Capital Markets                                              -      30,000
4. Strengthening ICSA                                        500,000     543,000
5. Assistance to Individual SOEs                           2,200,000     737,000
PESCAPERU                                                             397,000
CONADE                                                                290,000
(Individual consultants)                                               20,000
6. Training (ESAN and Pacifico)                              800,000   1,650,000
7. Contingencies, Front End Fee                              150,000     150,000
B.  NOT FORESEEN IN ORIGINAL PROJECT DESIGN                1,900,000   3,061,000
1. Budget Review of SOEs                                                 860,000
2. General Assistance to MEFC                                            626,000
3. Assistance to Improving Customs Administration                         68,000
4. IPSS                                                                1,357,000
5. Other General Assistance                                               64,000
6. Computers                                                             187,000
MEF                                                                    83,000
CONADE                                                                 47,000
CONASEV                                                                18,000
INAP                                                                   39,000
Total                                                           10,068,000
* Totals do not add exactly Lecause numbers are rounded to the nearest
thousand.



- 22 -
Table 5. Status of Covenants
Compliance/
Section         Brief Description of Covenant                   Remarks
A. Loan
Agreement
3.01a       Borrower shall carry out Part A of the            Partial
Project and will assure compliance from         compliance
Institutions in accordance with Project
and Complementary Agreements.
3.01b       Borrower shall cause CONADE and ICSA to           Compliance
perform in accordance with provisions of
Project Agreement.
3.Olc       Borrower shall relend proceeds in accordance    Compliance
with Loan Agreement to ICSA and CONADE.
3.02        Borrower to contract with Public Sector           Compliance
Foundation                                       after period
which delayed
loan effec-
tiveness
3.03        Borrower shall maintain project coordinator       Compliance with
and an advisory group                           substantial
turnover of the
coordinator and
delays in
establishing
advisory group
3.04        Borrower shall employ consultants and             Compliance
procedures for contracting said with
satisfaction of Bank.
3.06b       Borrower shall maintain adequate records          Compliance
and procedures for monitoring progress
3.06d       Borrower shall provide a report on the            Compliance
execution and initial operation of Part
A of the Project no later than six months
after closing date.
3.07a       Borrower shall complete design of program         Complisnce
budgeting system in timely fashion and
exchange views with Bank on recommendations
for putting system into effect.



- 23 -
Compliance/
Secotin         Brief Descrigtion of Covenant                    Remarks
3.07b       Borrower shall follow recommendations of           System put into
consultants, in agreement with Bank, and         effect in MEFC,
put into effect said system by June 30, 1983.  but not in all
Ministries and
Cooperaci6n
Popular.
4.02        Borrower shall maintain adequate accounting        Compliance
records.
B. Project
Agreement
2.01a       ICSA shall carry out Part B of Loan Agreement   Compliance
2.Olb       ICSA shall borrow from Borrower proceeds of        Compliance
Loan allocated under applicable terms
2.Olc       ICSA shall present all projects to the Bank        Compliance
with evidence of approval by MEFC
3.Ola       CONADE shall carry out Part C of Loan              Compliance
Agreement
3.Olb       CONADE shall borrow from Borrower proceeds         Compliance
of loan allocated under applicable terms
3.01c       CONADE shall present all projects to the Bank   Compliance
with evidence of approval from MEFC
4.01        ICSA shall maintain adequate financial and         Compliance
operational records and accounts
4.02        ICSA shall have fiscal year audits                 Compliance
5.01        CONADE shall maintain adequate financial and    Compliance
operational records and accounts
5.02        CONADE shall have fiscal year audits               Compliance
C. Complementary
Participation
Agreement
2.01b       Borrower shall make allocated funds available   Compliance
to INAP, Central Bank, ESAN, and Universidad
del Pacifico as provided for in Loan Agreement.



- 24 -
Compliance/
Section         Brief DescriDtion of Covenant                  Remks
2.06b       ESAN shall carry out management training needs  Compliance with
survey before June 30, 1983, and develop a     covenant de-
curriculum based on findings                   layed by mutual
consent
2.06biii    ESAN shall employ consultants whose selection   Project files
and conditions of employment shall be in       not suffi-
accord with Bank requirements                   ciently com-
plete to
comment on
compliance
2.08b       Universidad del Pacifico shall carry out a      Compliance with
management training needs survey before June   covenant de-
30, 1983, and develop a curriculum based on    layed by mutual
findings                                       consent
2.08biii    Universidad del Pacifico shall employ           Project files
consultants whose selection and conditions     not suffi-
of employment shall be in accord with Bank     ciently com-
requirements and conditions of employment      plete to
comment on
compliance.



- 25 -
Table 6. Use of Bank Resources A/
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                                         Actual (SW)
Through Appraisal b/                                              7.2
Appraisal Through Board Approval                                  2.4
Supervision Through 6/30/87                                      13.8
B. Missions h/
No information available.
Through Appraisal                11/81         4         3 weeks (approx)
Supervision g/, c/                6/84         2         2 weeks (approx)
A/    These figures significantly under-represent actual supervision time due
to supervision done by the World Bank Resident Representative but not
recorded in the time recording system between 1982-87.
k/    The mid-term evaluation report indicates that the project took ten
months to prepare; the appraisal mission was led by the Country
Economist (who later became the World Bank Resident Representative) and
included experts in budgeting and compensation. The Bank jointly with
the IFC sent an economic mission to do a background report on the
parastatal sector and provide inputs to the appraisal mission.
_q/    Supervision mission time also does not reflect the time spent on a
comprehensive mid-term evaluation conducted in June 1984 by a Bank
Public Sector Management Specialist and State-Owned-Enterprise
consultant.



-26 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PERUU
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2204-PE)
Studies and Reportr Available in the Proiect FileLl
EVALUATIONS
Evaluation by the Auditor General of Peru, Contraloria. Diciembre 1984.
Interim Evaluation of the Public Sector Management Project. World Bank
Projects Policy Department, Public Sector Management Unit. Febrero
1985.
Evaluation of Public Management Projects [Evaluaci6n de Proyectos de Gesti6n
PCiblica], Pr6stamo PERU-BIRF 2204. Guillermo Davila Rosazza, consultor.
Julio 1986.
TAX REFORH
Program of Studies on Tax System in Peru--Reform of the Incentive Regime
(Programa de Estudio sobre el Sistema Tributario del Perd, Acuerdo de
Cooperaci6n MEFC/OEA. Reformas a los Regimenes de Incentivos
Tributarios (Actividad II)). Rodolfo Alberto Balbi, consultor OEA y
Juan Carlos G6mez Sabaini, Profesor CIET/OEA. Mayo 1983.
Program of Studies on Tax System in Peru--Income Tax Reform (Programa de
Estudio sobre el Sistema Tributario del PerC, Acuerdo de Cooperaci6n
NEFC/OEA. Reforma del Impuesto a la Renta (Actividad II)]. Rodolfo
Alberto Balbi, consultor OEA y Juan Carlos G6mez S-k-ini, Profesor
CIET/OEA. Agosto 1983.
Program of Studies on Tax System in Peru--Rationalization of Regional and
Local Taxes [Programa de Estudio sobre el Sistema Tributario del Perfi,
Acuerdo do Cooperaci6n MEFET/OEA. Racionalizaci6n de los Impuestos
Regionales y Locales (Actividad III)]. Roque Garcia Mullin, Profesor
CIET/OEA. Setiembre 1983.
Rationalization of Regional and Local Taxes (Racionalizaci6n de Impuestos
Regionales y Locales], Actividad III (borrador). Dr. Roque Garcia
Mullin. Agosto 1983.
Program of Studies on Tax System in Peru--Evaluation of Sales Tax (Programa de
Estudios sobre el Sistema Tributario del Pert- (Acuerdo de Cooperaci6n
L2    All documents are in Spanish unless the title is indicated in English
only.



- 27-                         ANNFAl
Page 2
MEFC/OEA).  Evaluaci6n del R6gimen de Imposici6n sobre los Consumos
(Actividad IV)]. Rodolfo Alberto Balbi, consultor OEA y Luis Illanes,
experto OEA. Agosto 1983.
Program of Studies on Tax System in Peru--Evalua':ion of the Nontraditional
Exports Incentives System [Programa de Estudio sobre el Sistema
Tri-outario del Perd, Acuerdo de Cooperaci6n MEFC/OEA. Evaluaci6n del
Regimen de Incentivos a las Exportaciones no Tradicionales (Actividad
V)]. Alfredo Stenberg, consultor OEA. Setiembre 1983.
Draft Law on Tax Incentives (Proyecto de Ley Organica de Incentivos
Tributarios]   Direcci6n General de Politica Fiscal, OEA/CIET.  Julio
1983.
Draft Sales Tax Law [Proyecto de Ley de Impuesto General a las Ventas.
Direcci6n General de Politica Fiscal, OEA/CIET]. Setiembre 1983.
Draft Income Tax Law [Proyecto Ley del Impuesto a la Renta]. Direcci6n
General de Politica Fiscal, OEA/CIET. Julio 1983.
Draft Statute for the Internal Revenue Service [Proyecto de Estatuto del
Instituto de Administraci6n Tributaria]. Informe de la Comisi6n
Organizadora, Resoluci6n Ministerial No. 091-82-EFC/43.40. Lima,
octubre 1982.
Nontraditional Export Duties [Cargas Fiscales a las Exportaciones no
Tradicionales]. Proyecto PNUD/UNCTAD PER/81/014, Rufino Cebrecos
Revilla, consultor. Noviembre 1983.
EXTERNAL DEBT
Proposal for Development of an Integrrted Debt Management and Accounting
System for the Republic of Peru. Merrill Lynch White Weld Capital
Markets Group and American Management Systems, Inc. Abril 1983.
External Debt Management System for the Republic of Peru. Proposed
Institutional Setting. Merrill Lynch White Weld Capital Markets Group.
Agosto-Octubre 1982.
BUDGET SYSTEM AND INVESTMENT MONITORING
Peru's Public Seotor Management Loan. MAC. Sin fecha.
Programming and Budgeting in State Enterprises, 1987 (Proceso de Programaci6n
y Formulaci6n del Presupuesto de Empresas Estatales para 1987]. Alfredo
Aguilar Alcantara, consultor. Setiembre 1986.
Directives for the 1985 Budget for Autonomous Entities [Directivas para 1985
(Organismos Autofinanciados)]. Ministerio de Economia, Finanzas y
Comercio.
Improving Institutional Management in Peru. A Case Study. MAC. Diciembre
1984.



-28-                          ANNEX 1
Page 3
Public Sector Employment Personnel Policy (Control de Empleados PCblicos].
Procedimiento de Control de Procesos e Informaci6n. MAC (Management
Analysis Center, Inc.). Abril 1984.
Analysis of the Procedures for Staff Reductions in the Civil Service [Analisis
de los Procedimientos de LUquidaci6n del Personal Civil de la
Administraci6n del Estado]. MAC. Mayo 1984.
Computerization of the Data Control System (Definici6n Basica de la
Mecanizaci6n de la Ficha de Control de Proyectos]. MAC. Mayo 1984.
Mechanisms for the Coordination of Public Credit--Public Budget in the
External Financing of investment Projects (Mecanismos de Coordinaci6n
Cr6dito PCtblico-Presupuesto PfCblico en la Financiaci6n Externa de los
Proyectos de Inversi6n]. MAC. Mayo 1984.
Draft Public Sector Investment Law of September 10, 1983 [Proyecto de Ley
OrgAnica del Presupuesto del Sector Pdblico 12-10-83]. Ministerio de
Economia, Finanzas y Comercio.
Overview of Peru's National Budget and Public Companies. MAC. Enero 1983.
Improvements Introduced in the Systems of Budget Formulation and Execution
(Mejoras Introducidas en los Sistemas de Formulaci6n y Ejecuci6n
Presupuestal]. MAC, Setiembre 1983.
Seminar on Planning and Control in Public Institutions [Planificaci6n y
Control en las Instituciones PKblicas], Seminario 27-28 de junio de
1983, organizado por la Direcci6n General del Presupuesto Pdblico.
Universidad de Pensilvania, profesor Paul Browne.
Final Report on the Study of Programming Investments in Public Enterprises,
1983 (Estudio de las Empresas PCblicas y su Programa de Inversiones
1983]. Informe Final. Ap6ndices: I Precios, III Inversiones
Adicionales por Prioridades, IV Flujo Caja 1982, V Flujo %.aja 1983, VI
Formularios Sistema de Informaci8n y Control. MAC. Abril 1983.
Proposal for Budget Formulation, Implementation and Control, 1984 [Propuesta
para Implementaci6n Sistema Ejecuci6n y Control del Presupuesto y
Formulacion Presupuesto 1984]. MAC. Marzo 1983.
Analysis of the Economic Impact of the State Enterprises, 1982-83 (AnAlisis
del Impacto Econ6mico de las Empresas Estatales 1982-1983]. MAC.
Diciembre 1982.
Directives on the Execution and Control of the 1983 Public Budget (Directivas
para la Ejecuci6n y Control del Presupuesto del Sector Pdiblico, Aflo
1983]. Ministerio de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio. Noviembre 1982.
Budget Reductions in 1982 Public Investments, Final Report (Recorte
Presupuesto de Inversiones P6kblicas 1982, Informe Final]. Ministerio de
Economia, Finanzas y Comercio. Sin fecha.



- 29-                         ANNEX 1
Page 4
SIMULATION MODELS
Final Report on the Economic Information System and Simulation Models
[Proyecto de Apoyo para el Sistema de Informaci6n Econ6mica y Modelos de
Consistencia, Informe Final]. Econsult. Abril 1985.
Third Report on the Economic Information System and Simulation Models
[Proyecto de Apoyo para el Sistema de Informacion Econ6mica y Modelos de
Consistencia: Tercer Informe de Avance Trimestral]. Econsult. Enero
1985.
Second Report on the Economic Information System and Simulation Models
[Proyecto de Apoyo para el Sistema de Informaci6n Econ6mica y Modelos de
Consistencia: Segvndo Informe Trimestral de Avance]. Econsult.
Setiembre/octubre 1984.
First Report on the Economic Information System and Simulation Models
[Proyecto de Apoyo para el Sistema de Informaci6n Econ6mica y Modelos de
Consistencia: Primer Informe Trimestral de Avance]. Econsult. Julio
1984.
CONADE
Organizational Concept of Public Sector Enterprise Activities [Actividad
Empresarial del Estado, Concepto Organizativo, Informe Final]. CONADE,
Booz-Allen & Hamilton, inc. Edici6n revisada, Lima, Per(i. Agosto 1984.
Non-financial Public Enterprises, Considerations and Their Conduct in 1983
(Empresas PCiblicas no Financieras, Consideraciones sobre su
comportamiento en el aflo 1983], Anexo Estadistico. Asesoria T6cnica,
Viceministerio de Hacienda. Octubre 1983.
ICSA
Improving Management of Public Enterprises: The Holding Company Experience in
Peru, A Seminar for The World Bank. Cresap, McCormick and Paget.
Octubre 1983.
Diagnostic Study of Aeroperu (Diagn6stico de Aero Perd]. Cresap, McCormick
and Paget, Inc. Abril 1983.
Manual on the Management Information System of COFIDE [Manual del Sistema de
Informaci6n Gerencial de Inversiones COFIDE S.A.] Cresap, McCormick and
Paget, Inc. Julio 1983.
Manual on COFIDE Planning Systems [Manual de Sistemas de Planeamiento para
Inversiones COFIDE S.A.] Cresap, McCormick and Paget, Inc. Julio 1983.
Presentation to the Management of COFIDE on SIDERPERU [Presentaci6n a la
Gerencia de Inversiones COFIDE sobre SIDERPERU]. Cresap, McCormick and
Paget, Inc. Junio 1983.



-30 -                          ANNEX
Page 5
Results of a Diagnostic Study on the Palm Oil Enterprise (Resultados de un
Diagn6stico de la Empresa para el Desarrollo y Explotaci6n de la Palma
Aceitera S.A.) Inversiones COFIDE S.A. Junio 1983.
Results of a Diagnostic Study on PARAMONGA, SA [Resultados del Diagn6stico de
Sociedad Paramonga Ltda. S.A.] Inversiones COFIDE S.A. Marzo 1983.
Diagnostic Study of Yura Cement Company [Diagn6stico de Cementos Yura S.A.]
Cresap, McCormick and Paget, Inc. Marzo 1983.
Report on the Development and Prospects of Enterprises in COFIDE's Portfulio
(Informe sobre el Desarrollo y Perspectivas de las Empresas de la
Cartera de Inversiones COFIDE S.A., a Diciembre de 1984]. COFIDE S.A.
Mayo 1985.
The Fisheries Sector in Peru [El Sector Pesquero Peruano]. MAC. Diciembre
1984.
Proposal for the Rationalization of Public Enterprises and Other Entities in
the Fisheries Sector.  Financial and Technical Proposals [P "puesta para
la Racionalizaci6n de las Empresas Pfiblicas y otros Organismos del
Sector Pesquero. Propuesta Financiera y Propuesta T6cnica]. Booz-Allen
& Hamilton International. Febrero 1984.
CONSULTANCIES AND INDIVIDUAL ADVISt°IES
Non-financial Public Enterprises--Considerations on Their Conduct in 1983
(Empresas P6blicas no Financieras - Consideraciones sobre su
Comportamiento en el Aflo 19831. Ruth Lituma, Asesora del Despacho del
Viceministro de Hacienda. Noviembre 1983.
Simulation Model for Contracting ("Sistema de Modelo de Administraci6n de
Precios."] Oscar Alberto Cortavarria Benites. Oct:bre, 1986.
Budget Management and Monitoring of Investments ("Gesti6n Presupue-taria y
seguimiento de Inversiones."] Humberto Petrei. Febrero, 1986.
State Activities in Rural Development, with Emphasis on the Southern Andean
Zone ["La Acci6n Estatal de Desarrollo Rural, con 6nfasis en la zona sur
andina."] Humberto Petrei, March, 1986.
Final Report of the Study to Improve Economic-Financial Management in the
Peruvian Institute of Social Security (IPSS) (Estudio para la Mejora de
la Gesti6n Econ6mico-Financiera del Instituto Peruano de Seguridad
Social, Informe Final], Segundo Proyecto. MAC. Diciembre 1984
Peru's Public Sector Management Loan: Restructuring the Social Security
System, Draft for Discussion Purposes. MAC. Noviembre 1984.



-31-                           ANNEX I
Page 6
Seminar to Improve Economic-Financial Manageuient [Seminario para la Hejora de
la Gesti6n Econ6mico-Financiera]. Noviembre-diciembre 1984.
Study to Improve the Economic-Financial Management of the IPSS, Analysis,
Results and Next Steps [Estudio para la Mejora de la Gesti6n Econ6mico-
Financiera, AnAlisis, Resultados y Pr6ximas Etapas]. IPSS. Agosto
1984.
Improved Management of Funds in the IPSS [Mejora Gesti6n de Ingresos IPSS,
Estado de Avance]. Abril 1984.
Aspects of the IPSS Information System [Aspectos de InformAtica Proyecto
IPSS]. MAC. Marzo 1984.
Proposal for the Design and Implementation of a Program to Improve Economic
and Financial Management ([ropuesta para el Diseflo e Implementacion de
un Programa de Mejora de la Gesti6n Econ6mico-Financiera]. MAC.
Noviembre 1983.
FUNDESARROLLO
Organizational Study of FUNDESARROLLO and the Design of a Program for the
Creation of a High Level Executive Service (Diagn6stico Organizacional
de FUNDESARROLLO y Diseflo de un Programa para la Creacion de un Servicio
Ejecutivo de Alto Nivel (SEAN)]. Servicios Ejecutivos Internacionales
(SEI). 1985.
Process of Selection and Administration of Human Resources and System of
Personnel Development ["Proceso de Selecci6n y Administracion del
Recurso Humano" y 'Sistema de Desarrollo de Personal."]  SEI. 1985.
ESAN AND UNIVERSIDAD DEL PACIFICO
A series of studies completed by each entity.



-32-                           AEX 2
Page 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PER;U
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2204-PE)
Summary of Comoonents. Activities, and OutRuts
Below is a brief overview of the scope of activities in the Project, which
should be read in conjunction with Part I.
Loan Agreement
CategoZ
Objectivers:      Al.  "Rationalization of a program budgeting system and the
implementation thereof in the central budget office in the
Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce and in each of
the Ministries and Cooperaci6n Popular.'
Four major activities included: (1) review of 1982 budget;
(2) preparation of 1983 and 1984 budgets and strengthening
of DGPP; (3'preparation of institutional setting for program
budgeting system; (4) budget execution and implementation of
financial and physical control systems.
ImRlementing
Algency:          DGPP
Amount:            US$1,877,-700
Timetable:         4/82-5/84
OutRuts:           This component was successful in the design of a more
effective budgeting system for the Central Government: in
the creation of a more rationalized expenditure
classification system; in linking (partially) expenditures
to program objectives; and in creating a computerized system
for budget preparation, for expenditure authorization, and
for budget execution reporting. Budget controls, especially
of salary and investment components in Central Government
were introduced. Computerization with manuals of monitoring,
reporting, and control systems were created, but system not
effectively institutionalized.
Loan Agreement
Objectives:       Al.  "Rationalization of a program budgeting system and the
implementation thereof in the central budget office in the
Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce and in each of
the Ministries ar.d Cooperaci6n Popular." This consultancy



-33 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 2
was intended to provide a computerized model for the
management of budget decisions (in the 1986 budget) in real
monetary terms (during period of increasing uncertainty and
inflation), with trimestral adjustments to budget decisions
and a means for monitoring investment decisions and project
activities.
ImZlamenting
AgeycX:          DGPP
Am2uLt:           US$15,000
Timetable:        January-March 1986
Outputs:          Final report offers recommendations on budget management,
investment and project monitoring, a simulation model for
budget decisions, and forward budgeting. This was a fine
tuning exercise for the 1986 budget process.
Loan Aereement
Categ2XX/
Objectives:      A2.  "Design and implementation of a system of improved
methods for hiring and retaining civil servants with
emphasis on the ability of the system to attract and
maintain senior managers." Specifically, study was to
coordinate with ongoing activities at INAP to establish
procedures for adjusting public employee salary scales and a
registry of employees.
I,;leSmentin
Agoncy:          INAP
Amount:           US$46,000
TImetab1e:        One year (1985)
OMoUts:'          Study of Homologaci6n (salary equivalency) initiated in late
1984. It is not clear that the tabular information provided
registering public employees was utilized.
Loan Agreement
Cat,eorXL
Objectvive:      A2.  "Design and implementation of a system of improved
methods for hiring and retaining civil servants with
emphasis on the ability of the system to attract and
maintain senior managers."
Im21amenting
Ag2ncX:          FUNDESARROLLO
Am2unt:           US$40,000



- 34 -
Page 3
Timetable:         1/85-4/85
Qutputs:           Two volume report prepared in mid-1985 provides a diagnosis,
an organizational manual, rules for internal control,
selection system, and personnel development system. Report
is skeletal and focuses on formal characteristics of an SES
system. SES was perceived as a source of political patronage
and not a means for retaining transparently a set of senior
executives.
FUNDESARROLLO was not created until 4/83, well after the
contractual requirement, thus delaying loan effectiveness.
Contracts to begin work on the establishment of SES were not
affirmed until 3/84; in addition to this initial delay, no
firm was contracted to conduct required studies u.atil 1/85,
and study completion did not occur until the end of 1585.
Further, as of 12/84, the FUNDESARROLLO had still failed to
submit information on use of funds and on individual
contracts for members of SES, despite repeated requests from
Contraloria.
Loan Agreement
Caterory/
O^bjertives:      A3.  Development and execution of public sector management
programs, including research, training, dissemination
activities.
ImplementLng
Agency:           ESAN
Alo-unt:           US$825,000
TimetabkLe         Initiated 5/83 and final disbursement in 3/86
Outputs:           The objective of utilizing a well regarded institution of
higher education for strengthening skills of public sector
management was well founded. A number of research reports
were prepared as part of project, many providing useful
analyses of management issues and concerns; in addition,
several books were produced. However, Contraloria notes the
lack of structure and order in the administration of
individual research projects with limited accountability in
the execution of studies (e.g., lack of research contracts
and contracted outputs). The Government's project evaluation
notes the large number of studies that were done, many of
which had been initiated prior to the funding by this
project. While there are a number of reasonably related
studies, some would seem to have little direct relationship
to public sector management concerns.



35-
Page 4
Loan Agreement
Qategou/
Objectiyes:       A3.  Development and execution of public sector management
programs, including research, training, dissemination
activities.
Implementing
Agenacy:          Universidad del Pacifico
Amount:            US$825,000
Timetable:         Initiated 5/83 and final disbursements in 3/86.
QutRuts:           Similar to above, Contraloria notes the lack of structure
and order in the administration of individual research
projects with limited accountability in the execution of
studies (e.g., lack of research contracts and contracted
outputs). The Government's independent consultant notes the
large number of studies that were done, many of 'uhich had
been initiated prior to the funding by this project. While
there are a number of reasonably related studies, some would
seem to have little direct relationship to public sector
management concerns. Graduate program in management created
under project, although the Government's evaluation notes
that program was not geared to producing public sector
managers.
Loan Agreement
Categgrv/
Qbiectives:       A4(i). Strengthen Debt Management, specifically by
strengthening lines of communication and control among
agencies responsible for debt management; the design and
implementation of a computer system for debt monitoring; and
the strengthening of human resources (training).
Implementin
Agency:           DGCP
Amount*            US$1,325,000
Timetable:.        8/82-12/84
outputs*           While report offers series of solid recommendations for the
reorganization of the institutional framework and offers
recommendations for the creation of a monitoring and control
system, recommendations appear not to have been implemented.
The Government's independent evaluator suggests that the
former was ignored by high levels in the MEFC and the latter
presupposed a number of contextual circumstances that did
not obtain: a strong DGCP, a stable economic environment and
relations among institutions, and the availability of
information for the monitoring system. These assumptions may
have been contextually unrealistic. Final implementation



36 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 5
presumed that DGCP would have legal capacity to acquire
information on debt status of agencies and enterprises,
which it did not. Again, implementation was caught up in
exigencies of day-to-day operations and lack of recognition
of institutional/legal capabilities of government
organizations (DGCP).
Loan fgreement
Category/
Obj ctives:      A4(ii).  Design and Implementation of public investment
programming system for public enterprises, with a particular
eye for control and monitoring of deficit financing in
enterprises.
Inlementing
,&aency:         MEFC
A~mount:          US$860,000
Timetable:        12/82-4/83
9=Aputs:          Several sound reports produced beginning with study of
budget impact of public enterprises (12/82), and with
recommendations regarding control of enterprise expenditures
and an examination of enterprises with 50% government
capital (4/83). Government failed to implement
recommendations.
Loan Agreement
Cateigory/~
{Objectives:     A4(ii).  Individual consultants to MEFC
AgancX:          MEFC
Amoumg*           US$9,000; US$1,000; US$6,600
imetlable:        1986
Outputs:          Various individual reports, including an informatiLvs and
complete evaluation of progress to date by the Government's
independent consultant (7/86).
Lgan Agreement
catsg2ryL
bjectives:      MA4(ii).  Individual consultants to CONASEV
Ag2enct:         CONASEV
Amount!           US$24,000; US$6,000; US$18,000



37 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 6
IA2tabla...       1984-1986
OUtRWts:          Several individual reports focusing on the capital market
and the current financial crisis of Perf.
Loan Agreement
0bJec,tiy.M:     A4(iv).  Tax and export incentives projects
ImRIementin
Ae&ncy:          MEFC (Hacienda); DGPF (through Third Addendum)
Amount:           US$7,150; US$34,000
Timetable:        4/83-11/83
Outputs:          Examinations of specific incentive alternatives for exports
to USA and tax incentive systems to encourage entrepreneurs,
including analyses of legislative and administrative norms.
Loan Agreement
C.ategory/
Obiectives:      A4(v).  Rationalization of Tax Administration
ImRlementing
Agency:          DGC (First and Second Addendums to original Agreement);
individual consultants
&m2Int:           US$193,000; US$67,500; US$27,000
Timetable:.       4/83-2/84
Outputs:          CIAT (OAS) contracted to strengthen newly created Instituto
de Administraci6n Tributaria (1984) under amendment to
original Loan Agreement. The OAS conducted courses in tax
administration and data automation. Produced several
detailed reports on tax administration, including
recommendations for altering legislative norms on tax
incentives and rationalizing tax system (see Bibliography).
Reports include Asesoria para el Mejoramiento de los
Sistemas de Control Aduanera. Also, a series of brief (1-4
page) memos on various aspects of customs administration.
Clear and specific terms of reference are credited for
making these activities successful in implementation.
Loan Agreement
Objiectviv:      A4(vi).  Organize Data Bank for Strengthening Tax
Administration



- 38 -                         ANN_  2
Page 7
ImRlmening
Affency:          DGC/IMF
Amount:            US$19,000
Timetable:         1983
,Outputs1         Two consultants from IMF utilized to implement specific
control and information systems and for training of local
personnel. Also, clear and specific terms of reference made
for meaningful input and implementation of activities.
Loan Agreement
CateLory/
ObiectLy&s:       A4(vii).  Various consultancies to MEF
Im21ementing
ALency:           MEFC:  US$583,000; US$44,000; US$28,200; US$3,900;
US$20,000; US$3,350; US$3,350; US$3,350; US$4,300;
US$300,900
Amounts            Sum of above (approximately US$994,000)
Timetable:         3/84-1935
gumsuts:           Most activities here are individual consultancies to perform
specific tasks and prepare reports or to provide day-to-day
support. The two largest contracts provided services:
(i) to develop a system of macroeconomic indicators and
consistency models for elaboration of Annual Economic
Program; (ii) to provide relatively vague services to MEFC.
A number of individual studies were conducted during the
course of the work by individual consultants.
Loan Agreement
Categorx/
Objectives:       A4(viii).  Strengthening of IPSS
ImulementLng
Agency:           IPSS
Amount:            US$1,355,000
Timetable:.        1/84-12/84
Out2U&s*           Not part of original agreement, but an amended project
activity. Project was successful in short term in
strengthening control of social security funding and worked
closely with counterparts in team activities. Success in
improving collection rates and in reducing time lags for
payments of claims to individuals.



- 39 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 8
Loan Aereement
CAte2rY
Qkiectives:      A4.  Assistance to PESCAPERU
IM21ementin"
Atency:          PESCAPERU
Amount:           US$390,000
Timetable:        3/84-10/84
OUtoUtS:          Assistance aimed to devise and implement a new strategy for
the state fishing industry given changes in both the
quantity and type of fish currently available in Peruvian
waters. Final report offered the Ministry a clear review of
existing conditions and alternat_ves for the industry, and
realistic recommendations by the consultants were well
received by the then Minister of Fisheries. These
recommendations focus on the establishing of production
quotas, the commercial viability of alternative fish,
readjustments in personnel levels in the Ministry, and
criteria for the reorganization of the Ministry.
Later efforts to reduce the staff which were recommended by
the consultants proved impossible to implement. Again,
initial strong individual support and leadership for reform
by the Minister of Fisheries proved short-lived, and the
institutionalization of reform efforts was not accomplished
in the face of a change in Ministers, the deteriorating
political climate, and increasing Government unwillingness
and opposition to the implementation of reforms.
Loan Agreement
Category/
Objectives:      B.  Strengthening of Management of ICSA and Assistance in
Defining ICSA Role in state enterprise sector
Imp1ementing
Agency:          ICSA
Amounto           US$542,700
Timetable:.       11/82-7/83
Outputs:          Consultants designed MBO system and strategic management
system, along with the development of a MIS. Intensive
studies of several large parastatals controlled by ICSA
conducted (Aero Perd, SIDERPERU, Aceiteras Palmas, Cementos
Yura, Paramonga) (see Bibliography). Also, examination of
procedures for possible divestment provided, although never
utilized in climate of Per(. Evaluations note that HB0
system was too generic, not adapted to reality of public
enterprises in Per(. Again, reasonably successful in design



40-                         ANNX 2
Page 9
of systems, although in a a part the weaknesses of
implementation can be accounted for by the deteriorating
economic and political climate of PerCi and by the lack of
adapting systems to Per6. Technically competent work that
provided for some strengthening of control of ICSA over
major parastatals under its control.
Loan Agreement
Category/
Obiectiy_U:      C.  Strengthening of CONADE and development of more rational
organizational and information structure for CONADE;
strengthening of relationships of CONADE to ministries and
to SOEs.
Imnlment1ng
Acency :         CONADE
Amount:           US$290,000
Timgtable:        3/84-8/84
mout±s:           Final report offers set of recommendations or. ., altering
of role of CONADE to that of a separate institute rather
than a holding company. Institute would serve advisory
functions, reporting to the President. Evaluations suggest
that consultants did not take the complexity of the
interaction among SOEs and central governmental
agencies/institutions into account adequately. Strong inter-
organizational conflicts exist that would need to be
addressed long before the recommendations offered could take
on meaning. Weaknesses in perceptions of Peruvian reality
were also noted. Recommendations not acted upon.
Loan Agreement
Qec tives:       D.  Assistance in Development of Model for Evaluation of
enterprise activities of the state for CONADE.
Imulemenrting
Agency:          CONADE
AmoRunts         s US$19,200
Timetable:.       March-November 1986
OuQatpts:j        No evidence of final report in files; our files may be
incomplete.



