Document of                 FILEeCtOP
The World Bank                           E  Cr  
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3383-PE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$10.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
September 1, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the differen-
tial between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate and
currency equivalents in 1981 and as of July 31, 1982 were as follows:
Currency Unit = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1981                 July 31, 1982
US$1               S/. 426.60                   S/. 715.75
S/. 1              US$0.0023                   US$0.0014
S/. 1,000          US$2.34                      US$1.40
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
bpd         -  Barrels per Day
COFIDE      -  Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
(State Development Finance Bank, Subsidiary of CONADE)
CONADE      -  Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Corporation)
DGPP        -  Direccion General de Presupuesto Publico
(Government's Central Budget Office)
ERP         -  Economic Recovery Program
ESAN        -  Escuela Superior de Administracion de Negocios
(A private school of business administration)
ICSA        -  INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A.
(Holding Company for State-Owned Enterprises, Subsidiary
of CONADE)
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
INAP        -  Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica
(National Institute of Public Administration)
INP         -  Instituto Nacional de Planificacion
(National Planning Institute)
MEFC        -  Ministerio de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio
(Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce)
SES         -  Senior Executive Service
USAID       -  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Peru.
Beneficiaries:       INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A. (ICSA), the State-owned
holding company, and--through CONADE--individual
State-owned enterprises
Relending Terms      The Government would onlend in dollars part of the pro-
ceeds of the loan to ICSA (US$0.5 million) and--through
Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo (CONADE)--to individ-
ual State-owned enterprises (US$2.2 million) at the same
interest borne by the proposed Loan for a term of five
years, including one year of grace. The Government would
assume the foreign exchange risk.
Amount:              US$10.2 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:               Repayable in 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:         The project's main goal is to improve management through-
out the public sector to make better use of Peru's scarce
financial and human resources. The project would include
the following components: (i) the design and implementa-
tion of a program budgeting system for the Central
Government; (ii) the design and implementation of an
adequate compensation system, particularly for senior
managers in the central administration; (iii) support for
ongoing and/or new public sector management training pro-
grams in two private higher educational institutions and
the Central Bank; (iv) technical assistance in key policy
areas such as debt management and evaluation of major
investment projects; (v) institutional strengthening of
INVERSIONES COFIDE; and (vi) technical assistance to
individual State-owned companies.
Project Risk:        Although many of the proposed reform measures are diffi-
cult and politically sensitive, the Government is firmly
committed to implementing them. Moreover, the proposed
carefully designed organizational arrangements for proj-
ect implementation and the close Bank guidance envisaged
for this operation would minimize administrative diffi-
culties and help to get the project off to a good start.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs (net of taxes)                   Local      Foreign   Total
US$ million ------
(i) Program Budgeting System
(including project coordinator)         6.1         1.7      7.8
(ii)  Compensation System                     0.8         0.6      1.4
(iii) Technical Assistance in Key Policy
Areas                                   1.3         1.3      2.6
(iv) Institutional Strengthening of
INVERSIONES COFIDE (ICSA)               0.3        0.4       0.7
(v) Assistance to Critical State-
Owned Companies                         1.6         1.8      3.4
(vi)  Training in Public Sector Management  0.3           0.8       1.1
Base Cost                         10.4        6.6      17.0
Physical Contingencies                  1.0        0.7       1.7
Price Contingencies                     1.4         0.9      2.3
Total Cost                        12.8        8.2      21.0
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan                    -          0.15     0.15
Total Financing Required                    12.8         8.4     21.2
Financing Plan                                   Local      Foreign   Total
------ US$ million ------
Government                                   9.3                  9.3
ICSA, State-owned Companies                  1.7         -        1.7
Bank                                         1.8         8.4     10.2
Total                            12.8         8.4      21.2
Disbursement Estimates                                     Bank FY
1983      1984       1985
------  US$ million ---
Annual                                      4.0        4.0        2.2
Cummulative                                 4.0        8.0       10.2
Rate of Return:              Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:      None



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR A PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$10.2 million to help finance
a technical assistance project to strengthen public sector management. The
proposed loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. US$2.7 million of the loan's
proceeds would be onlent to State-owned enterprises at the Bank's interest
rate for a term of five years, including one year of grace, with the
Government assuming the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         An economic report entitled  "Peru-Major Development Policy Issues
and Recommendations" (Report No. 3438-PE) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 4, 1981. This part is based on the report's findings and on
those of economic missions to Peru in June and September 1981 as well as in
July/August 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.         Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and most of the country's modern economic
activity; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's
population; and the sparsely populated tropical rain forests east of the
Andes (Selva).  The country's rugged topography limits trade between the
three regions.
4.         Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra and
the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in the
northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and offshore
are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascertained.
Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in coastal
waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp fluctua-
tions. Only a small portion of Peru's total land area is arable, and most of
the soils suitable for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.         Although Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with
scope for expanding hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is
expected to remain the major energy source in Peru through the rest of this
century. Peru's domestic oil production more than doubled between
1/   This part is substantially unchanged from Part I of the Petroleum
Production Enhancement Project President's Report of July 22, 1982
(Report No. P-3371-PE).



-2
1977 and 1981 to over 190,000 barrels per day (bpd), and it became a net
exporter of about 60,000 bpd. To enable Peru to remain a net petroleum
exporter, the Government has embarked on a strategy of accelerated secondary
recovery and exploration efforts to increase production and of rational
pricing policies to contain demand growth.   Prices for domestically consumed
petroleum products have been increased at regular intervals. In addition,
new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to domestic and
foreign investors, and the response has been positive. The Government
strategy is already bearing fruit with petroleum output expected to increase
in 1982 to an average level of 207,000 bpd.
6.         As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. Since the
early 1960s, birth rates have fallen gradually, mainly caused by the urbani-
zation process and improved education. But with declining death rates, popu-
lation has continued to grow at about 2.6 percent p.a. and is currently esti-
mated at about 17 million. The country's urban population is increasing at
4.2 percent p.a., and about a quarter of all Peruvians live in the Lima
area. Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is expected
to grow in excess of three percent per year during the next 20 years. Over
the same time frame, it is expected that overall population growth will fall
only slightly to about 2.4 percent p.a. unless an effective population
control policy is adopted. The Government is conscious of the need to slow
down Peru's population growth rate and is now supporting a family planning
program.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.         Two successive military Governments, in office from October 1968
until July 1980, followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic
growth and improving distribution of income and wealth, not only between
individuals but also between regions. The pattern of asset ownership in the
economy changed drastically through nationalization and a sweeping land
reform. The Government took direct control of key economic sectors and
imposed complex legislation to control the private sector. Many of the
policies carried out after 1968 had an excessive cost, and their implementa-
tion was inefficient.
8.         Between 1968 and 1977, Peru's Governments fol]lowed expansionary
fiscal and credit policies. As a result, aggregate demand considerably
exceeded aggregate supply resulting in strong inflationary pressures and
widening external gaps. Inflation accelerated from five percent per year in
1970 to 38 percent in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially
negative in real terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating
capital flight. Moreover, the exchange rate remained practically constant
between 1968 and 1975, thus contributing to the overall disequilibrium.
9.        The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of pay-
ments. The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in
1974-77, equivalent to nearly nine percent of GNP. To finance this deficit,
Peru accumulated a massive external debt, which at year-end 1977 stood at
almost US$8.4 billion (including short-term indebtedness), equivalent to
two-thirds of GDP and almost four times annual exports of goods and
non-factor services.



-3-
10.        Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion, during which GDP
grew by more than six percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. In this two-year period, GDP per
capita dropped by over six percent, and unemployment and underemployment rose
to almost 60 percent of the labor force, up from less than 50 percent during
the early 1970s.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
11.        Between 1975 and 1977, several unsuccessful attempts were made to
cope with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation
approaching 100 percent on an annual basis. Moreover, the private sector was
finding it increasingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports,
and the banking system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative
level of US$800 million.
12.        Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. The Government also negotiated a stand-by
arrangement with the IMF in support of the stabilization program.
13.        Major debt-relief operations carried out through the Paris Club and
with the Soviet Union and commercial banks in 1978 enabled Peru to reduce the
debt service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment of about US$1
billion to the 1982-1986 period. In view of the strong balance of payments
performance in 1979 and 1980 (para. 15), the Government decided to forego
parts of the rescheduling options in exchange for slightly better conditions
for new loans from commercial sources.
14.        To overcome the economic recession, in late 1978 the Government
adopted a comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition
to the above-mentioned stablization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by
broadening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource alloca-
tion in the private and public sectors. These policy changes--together with
a declining domestic market because of the recession--resulted in a major
reorientation of industrial development, with a large increase in the value
of manufactured exports from about US$200 million in 1977 to the US$750-800
million range in 1980-81 (equivalent to about eight percent of output). The
Government also drew up a public sector investment program that aimed at
redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic priority and with
positive effects on production and employment. In support of the ERP, the
Bank approved a US$115 million Program Loan in May 1979.
15.        The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979.
Public sector current account savings rose from -0.5 percent of GDP in 1978
to about 3.7 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall deficit was reduced from
5.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to 1.7 percent in 1979. In spite of Peru's
improved fiscal performance, inflationary pressures remained strong with a
consumer price increase of 67 percent in 1979. The more careful management
of public finances also had a positive impact on the balance of payments.



Moreover, an increase in petroleum exports and a substantial improvement of
Peru's terms of trade contributed to high overall surpluses of the balance of
payments in 1979 and 1980. At year-end 1980, the net reserve position had
improved to about US$1.3 billion, equivalent to about four months of
imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from official bilateral
and international sources, thus improving the structure of its external
debt. Real GDP growth rebounded to 3.7 percent in 1979; in 1980, however,
growth dropped to 3.1 percent owing, in part, to a drought which affected the
agricultural sector. Because of a relaxation in fiscal discipline, the
public sector deficit increased in 1980 to six percent of GDP, keeping
inflation for the year at a high level--59 percent.
Recent Developments and Outlook
16.        In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitu-
tion, written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were
held in May 1980, and following his electoral victory, President Fernando
Belaunde was inaugurated on July 28, 1980. His Government faced a
challenging economic and social situation with a number of acute problems
which had been disguised by the apparently solid financial situation. These
included: high levels of under- and unemployment, particularly in urban
areas; higher underlying inflation than had been reported because of price
controls and deferred price adjustments for public goods and services; a
public sector deficit that had been reduced by freezing expenditures for
economic and social services (including education, health and housing);
a balance of payments with a substantial surplus, which, however, was partly
due to unusually high commodity prices and to the fact that import levels
were depressed and manufacturing exports high owing to the recession; and,
finally, deteriorated income distribution over the past several years
resulting in increased social unrest.
17.        The Government named an economic team committed to economic effi-
ciency, decontrol of the economy (including divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises), promotion of the private sector (including foreign
investment), and policies aiming at a more equitable sharing of the benefits
of development through job creation and specifically targeted social
programs. Its reliance on, and promotion of, private initiative, in parti-
cular, distinguish the present Government's philosophy and economic program
from that of its immediate predecessors.
18.        The Government has made important headway in a number of areas.
It was successful in accelerating import liberalization by eliminating non-
tariff barriers and lowering tariffs. At the same time, export incentives
were streamlined and revised to eliminate abuse and make the system more
responsive to exports of products with high manufactured content. The
Government also enacted new legislation for the agricultural, mining and
petroleum sectors offering greater financial incentives to investors.
Finally, it made significant institutional changes in the financial sector,
revised the interest rate structure through substantial upward adjustments,
and is preparing a new banking law which would allow further rationalization
and liberalization of the financial system.



- 5 -
19.        In an effort to improve resource use, the Government made
progressin correcting major price distortions.  Food subsidies were greatly
reduced and most controlled agricultural prices were adjusted to
international levels. The marketing of agricultural products was
liberalized, and public utility and petroleum prices were adjusted at regular
intervals. Moreover, the Government endeavored to rationalize public
investment and its financing -- an effort that was supported by a Bank
sponsored Consultative Group meeting in May 1981.
20.        The above efforts were complemented by measures to strengthen
public sector institutions. The important public enterprise sector, for
example, was granted greater autonomy by transforming these enterprises into
State-owned limited liability corporations operating under private law. This
measure gives these companies, inter alia, greater freedom in fixing staff
compensation and, thus, helps them to recruit or to retain capable
personnel. Many of the above measures have already had positive short-term
effects, and they have laid the ground for medium-term structural adjustments
of the Peruvian economy.
21.        In spite of the above policy initiatives, economic performance in
1981 lagged behind expectations. GDP grew only at about four percent, and
employment generation was also sluggish. The balance of payments deterior-
ated substantially as a result of declining export prices, high interest
rates on the country's debt with commercial banks, and a rapid expansion of
imports. The loss in net reserves amounted to about US$580 million, equiv-
alent to about 2.5 percent of GDP. A major factor in the deterioration of
the balance of payments was the large public sector deficit which reached
about eight percent of GDP. On the positive side, some progress was achieved
in reducing inflation: while inflation on a December 1980-December 1981
basis reached 73 percent, during May-December 1981 it decelerated to an
annual rate of about 50 percent, mostly because of the openness of the
economy, the price dampening effects of an increase in imports, and--to some
extent--to a deceleration of the mini-devaluations.  During 1982, inflation
is expected to reach 60 percent (which is also the average rate during the
first five months of the year). The Government is aware that this level is
still too high, however, and is following restrictive demand management which
it expects will result in a further drop in inflation.
22.        Reducing the public sector deficit has, once again, become the
major challenge facing Peru's economic managers. While the deteriorated
export situation has had a negative impact on tax revenues, the 1981 deficit
was mostly the result of steep increases in expenditures and somewhat lagging
adjustments of petroleum and rice prices. Excess expenditures over initial
budget allocations were incurred mostly for investment projects of lesser
priority. To tackle the difficult public finance situation, the Government
is following a restrictive financial program for 1982 with tight credit
ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness. The Government also trimmed the
public investment program in line with its investment priorities. The Bank
has an ongoing and frank dialogue with the Peruvian Government on these
issues. Moreover, in June, 1982 the IMF approved an SDR850 million
compensatory-cum-EFF arrangement to support Peru's stabilization efforts.
In spite of the difficult world economic environment, a slowdown in economic
growth (projected to be about two percent in 1982) and increasing social
tension, the Government is striving to adhere to the agreed-upon program and



-6-
to make the necessary adjustments in fiscal management to keep the economy
viable over the medium term. Peru's total debt outstanding to the IMF as of
June 30, 1982 amounted to SDR776.8 million.
23.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management, through the medium term the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 4-5 percent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation. Peru's balance of payments could, however, become precarious if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. While measures are being undertaken
to speed up petroleum exploration and to increase manufactured exports, the
results of these endeavors may not come in time to countervail the potential
foreign exchange shortfalls. Against this background, there is a continuing
need for official development assistance. Taking the above factors into
account, considering an expected debt service ratio hovering around 35 per-
cent of exports (which are relatively diversified) and assuming that the
authorities continue the initiated course of economic policies, Peru is
creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
24.       The Bank has approved 50 loans to Peru for a total amount of
US$1,302.3 million, net of cancellations. About 28 percent of the Bank's
lending to Peru has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports),
17 percent for agriculture, 25 percent for the energy sector, 14 percent for
mining and industry, about seven percent for education and urban development
and nine percent for a program loan in support of the ERP in 1979.
25.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and their
disbursement status as of March 31, 1982 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As of this date, US$440 million was undisbursed.
Disbursements on Bank-financed projects moved slowly in the late 1970s,
primarily because of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of
counterpart funds that worsened as the economy deteriorated during this
period. Disbursements have improved, however, with vigorous efforts by the
Bank and Government to correct the situation by, inter alia, (i) opening a
Bank resident mission in Peru; (ii) restructuring a number of slow moving
projects; (iii) Government provision of adequate counterpart funds; and (iv)
Government creation of a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems. These actions are bearing fruit.
Disbursements on project loans amounted to US$44 million in FY80, US$70.5
million in FY81 and US$75.8 million in FY82. This compares with average
yearly disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY77-79.
26.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru are to assist in (i)
the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and foster
economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors, i.e., petroleum, agriculture and mining; (iii) the strengthening
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of public sector
management and of local capacity to prepare, implement and operate projects
effectively; and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and
rural poor. In the past, Bank lending concentrated on infrastructure in the
transportation and power sectors. More recently, the Bank's emphasis has



- 7 -
shifted to more directly productive fields--mining, petroleum, agriculture
and industry--to help Peru to strengthen its balance of payments. Lending
for social projects has also grown and will be further stepped up in the
future. The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include projects in rural development, health, and education.
As part of its assistance strategy, the Bank convened a Consultative Group
Meeting for Peru on May 25-26, 1981 to help the Government arrange financing
for its public investment program.
27.       Bank loans constituted an estimated 6.4 percent of Peru's total
public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1981, and
absorbed about 3 percent of the country's public external debt service in
1981. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign
debt by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt-service
would be around 4.5 percent.
28.       IFC commitments as of March 31, 1982 were US$37.3 million (includ-
ing US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone
Copper Mining Project) of which US$18.9 million is held by the Corporation.
A summary statement of IFC investments as of March 31, 1982 is presented in
Annex II. In addition, a palm oil and a polymetallic mining project were
recently approved, and a venture capital company is now being considered.
29.       The other principal lending agencies active in Peru are the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID). Their total commitments as of December 31,
1981 were US$849 million and US$348.8 million, respectively, and their shares
of public debt service as of end-1980 were estimated at 0.6 percent and 0.5
percent, respectively. In its future lending, IDB is expected to emphasize
lending for agriculture, industry, mining, roads, and small scale irriga-
tion. USAID is expected to stress rural development and health.
PART III - THE PUBLIC SECTOR
30.       Throughout most of Peru's history, the State has been an important
agent in the country's economy. In the Inca Empire, the State owned all
arable land, executed large public works programs, and developed a highly
structured political and social system that permeated all aspects of life.
During the colonial era (mid sixteenth through early nineteenth centuries)
and also during the first hundred years after independence, the State--as
owner of most of the country's non-agricultural natural resources--continued
to play an important role, but mainly as rentier receiving royalties. With
the emergence of new, large-scale technology in the mining, manufacturing,
and transport sectors at the beginning of this century, most initiative was
left to foreign investors, but the State lent active support by providing
economic and social infrastructure.
31.       After World War II, the State re-assumed an increasingly important
role in the economy through expanded development expenditures, more economic
planning, and the enactment of complex legislation regulating economic
activities. The process accelerated during the 1960s and reached a peak



- 8 -
under the most recent military Governments (1968-80) when the State also
assumed a major role as entrepreneur through nationalization of foreign-owned
companies and establishment of new companies in strategic sectors (para. 7)
with generally disappointing results in terms of their operating efficiency.
The present Government, although committed to a large development program, is
gradually reversing the process of ever increasing State involvement by
stimulating the private sector and initiating the divestiture of some of the
State-owned enterprises (para. 17).
32.       The State's assumption of complex tasks beyond the granting of
mining and other concessions and the enactment of legislation and other
regulations is reflected by a gradually increasing share in the use of the
country's resources. Public sector current and capital spending increased
from some 10 percent of GDP in 1950 to about 30 percent in 1977; it declined
thereafter as a result of stabilization measures (para. 15) but still
amounted to about 28 percent in 1980. While the State's growth was
accompanied by increased Government employment, remuneration of Government
employees lagged far behind; it stagnated around nine percent of GDP during
most of the 1970s and had declined to less than eight percent in 1980. These
figures point to one of the main problems of Peru's public sector: an
expansion of tasks which translated into higher overall expenditures but was
not matched by an increase in personnel compensation. Most programs tended
to suffer from inadequate staffing, particularly at the management level.
The problem was exacerbated at the management level by a salary adjustment
policy which was based on the same absolute amounts of increase at all pay
levels, thus rapidly eroding higher salaries.
The Central Government
33.       The public sector in Peru--as usually defined--consists of the
General Government and 42 non-financial public enterprises. The General
Government, in turn, comprises the Central Government (including 25 regional
development corporations), a number of decentralized institutions, the social
security system, and numerous provincial and district governments. The
proposed project addresses itself to the Central Government and to the para-
statal sector, which--besides the 42 public enterprises--comprises about 100
other enterprises, which have been largely run like private enterprises,
although totally or partially owned by the State.
34.       Government structure and policies.  The Republic of Peru has a
unitary and representative form of government with complete separation of the
executive, legislative and judiciary branches. Its executive branch--i.e.
the Central Government--comprises 16 ministries, two entities with minis-
terial rank (including the Planning Institute), several permanent inter-
ministerial commissions, several entities attached to either the President of
the Republic or the President of the Council of Ministers, and 25 regional
development corporations. The Government is headed by the President of the
Republic. The President of the Council of Ministers, who also must hold one
of the 16 ministerial portfolios, is the cabinet's chief coordinator and,
thus, plays a key role in the design and implementation of Government
policies.
35.       The executive functions--i.e., the responsibilities of the
President, of the cabinet, etc.--are broadly defined in the Constitution of



- 9 -
1979 and, more specifically, by Legislative Decree No. 217 of June 1981, as
well as by a series of other Legislative Decrees referring to individual
ministries and other entities. Although this legislation purported to
redefine the organization and functions of the executive branch in the
framework of the new constitution, the system remained basically unaltered,
and changes were mostly confined to the retitling of existent positions.
Significantly, however, the recent legislation, although intended to be
comprehensive, did not cover the budgeting process--i.e., the Government's
key management tool--nor the personnel structure and compensation system of
the civil service, i.e., the Government's main resource.
36.        After taking office in July of 1980, the present Government has
undertaken sound policy action in many areas (paras. 17-19). For a number of
reasons, however, actual performance so far has fallen somewhat short of
expectations. On the one hand, the international environment over the last
two years has not been favorable to Peru, and the present Government
inherited a heavy burden in terms of both the nature of socio-economic
problems and the limited margin of maneuver to tackle them (para. 16).  On
the other hand, within these constraints the Government has been only
moderately successful in effectively implementing certain policy changes
because of its lack of management tools and of adequate managerial talent.
Some of the intended policy changes, thus far, have been limited to the
political level and the conceptual stage; they have not been translated into
concrete programs and budget allocations. Examples of this are given in
para. 37.
37.        In agriculture, while stated policies give highest priority to the
revival of production through, inter alia, the rehabilitation of small and
medium-scale irrigation schemes and an improved extension service, the imple-
mentation of these initiatives has been slow, and the organization of an
extension service is still in an early stage. In transport, the stated
priority is road rehabilitation and maintenance, but maintenance efforts are
lagging behind major reconstruction projects. In health, the Government
attributes highest priority to preventive medicine and comprehensive primary
health care, but has been slow in mounting a corresponding program and unable
to make full use of available resources. Finally, in education highest
priority is given to primary education in rural and marginal urban areas, but
the corresponding construction component, which is relatively straight
forward, has experienced substantial delays. The reorientation of curricula
and teacher training lag even further behind. These difficulties can be
traced, in great part, to the limited availability of resources, but mostly
to inadequate management of available resources, i.e., the inability to make
Government overall priorities operational through the setting of specific
objectives, the corresponding allocation of financial and human resources,
vigorous expenditure control, and the monitoring of physical results.
38.        Resource constraints.  During most of the 1970s, Government reven-
ues hovered around 14 percent of GDP--a mark which falls somewhat short of
the expected value for a country at a comparable stage of development.
(Morocco, for example, collected 18 percent on average). As a result of tax
increases and special tax administration efforts, revenues were pushed to 16
percent in 1979 and over 18 percent in 1980. However, with low commodity
prices and a reduction in export taxes, Government revenues in 1981 again
fell below the 17 percent mark and put a strain on public finances. The



- 10 -
rigid structure of expenditures (with about 50 percent of total expenditures
allocated to general administration, defense, and interest payments) leaves
relatively little margin for significant shifts in spending priorities and,
therefore, constitutes an additional constraint to the Government's
development policy. These constraints and the country's development needs,
which were not adequately addressed in the past, make skillful management
even more urgent. Yet, as already noted, the Government's planning and
budgeting system as well as its personnel structure and compensation system
are inadequate and limit efficient management of the public sector.
39.       Planning and budgeting.  The present planning and budgeting system
dates back to the early 1960s.  It is built around the National Planning
Institute (INP) and the Government's Central Budget Office (DGPP) in the
Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce (MEFC). INP was established in
1962 (i) to formulate the Government's development plans and investment
programs in collaboration with the sectoral and regional planning units;
(ii) to provide an input to the annual budgets of the Government and
State-owned enterprises; and (iii) to report periodically to the President
and the Council of Ministers on the country's economic and social situation
and on the execution of development plans and programs. For reasons spelled
out in para. 41, INP was unable to discharge effectively its duties. The
preparation of the Central Government budget is the responsibility of DGPP in
collaboration with the budget units in the individual ministries. The
budgeting process is formally ruled by the Budget Law of 1964, which
introduced the program budget system. The system was predicated on close
collaboration between INP and DGPP. INP was intended to provide the
macroeconomic and sector orientation as well as the evaluation of investment
projects. DGPP was intended to translate the Government's priorities into
annual budget allocations.
40.       While the planning and budgeting process was developed and grad-
ually strengthened during the 1960s, it failed to become an effective
management tool. The main reasons for this were that: (i) planning and
budgeting did not fully determine the Government's decision-making process,
which was often influenced by purely political considerations because of the
lack of an appropriate institutional framework and power; (ii) owing to a
lack of adequate monitoring of financial and physical results, the system's
usefulness was limited; (iii) under the financial strain of the past few
years, many problems were tackled on an ad-hoc basis, and the planning and
budgeting system was largely bypassed; and (iv) a large portion of the most
capable staff left the Government as a result of depressed salaries (para.
43).
41.       The present planning and budgeting process--through which almost 30
percent of the country's GDP is channeled to different uses--suffers from a
number of serious shortcomings. First, the system barely takes into
consideration macroeconomic and policy inputs; while an attempt is made by
the DGPP (in collaboration with the Central Bank) to determine the overall
resource availabilities, policy options and development priorities are not
adequately considered in the process and, therefore, not sufficiently
reflected in the budget guidelines for the individual entities. Second, the
allocation process is fragmented into largely separate and unrelated
budgeting of recurrent and capital expenditures--two activities that at the
ministerial level are handled by different units and according to different



- 11 -
criteria; the process is handled in a mechanical way, and the implementation
of economically desirable programs and the achievement of certain targets are
not the guiding principles. Third, INP has become an inflexible bureaucracy,
with its largely eroded staff being tied up in functions not related to the
planning of resource use. It is, therefore, not really integrated into the
iterations of the budgeting process and is mostly seen as a bottleneck in the
decision process rather than as an authority in defining development
priorities and evaluating projects.  As a result of this situation, INP has
been increasingly bypassed, and important investment decisions have been made
without any significant participation of INP. Finally, expenditures are not
closely monitored.  Reporting is limited to financial performance and comes
too late to be useful for an active management of expenditures. Moreover,
Government monitoring against physical targets does not exist at all. With
all these shortcomings, Government control of spending is limited and--when
under financial stress--the Government does not have the tools to make
selective and sensible adjustments.
42.       Personnel structure and compensation.  The civil service in Peru,
in the formal sense, does not have a long tradition. Since the foundation of
the Republic, there were always isolated norms regulating State employment.
It was not until 1950, however, that a civil service career was formally
established by law. The civil service regulations and compensation were
handled by a central office in the Ministry of Justice and by offices in the
individual ministries. In 1969, the National Personnel Administration Office
was established to introduce a new approach to public sector personnel
management. However, it was not successful in reforming the civil service.
Neither was its successor, the National Institute of Public Administration
(INAP), which was set up in 1973 and reports to the President of the Council
of Ministers. Although several changes in the personnel structure and
compensation system were made over the years--the most recent one coming in
1979 and introducing the present grade structure--the expansion of the number
of Government employees by about 40 percent during 1970-78 and the impact of
the financial crisis of the late 1970s on civil service compensation left the
civil service in a chaotic state.
43.       At present, there are about 500,000 employees on the Government's
payroll. Excluding the military and the police, total employment amounts to
some 350,000. While the number of civil servants may be high--particularly
in some offices--the number of qualified middle- and upper-level managers is
deficient. Average monthly compensation amounted to about US$250-300 in
1981. This compensation is composed of about 20 different items (such as
basic salary, supplements, family and school allowances etc.), with the basic
salary only accounting for about 35 percent of total compensation. This
makes the compensation system complicated and difficult to administer. Civil
service remuneration is below compensation levels in the private sector where
comparable jobs pay up to three or four times as much as in the public
sector. This has resulted in substantial losses of talent, particularly at
the managerial level, which has caused many of the problems discussed in
paras. 39-41.
44.       The present personnel structure is based on seven grades (each
including seven subgrades) and six supergrades for managerial positions (with
three subgrades reflecting the specific importance and responsibilities of
individual Government institutions). This complex grade structure is built



- 12 -
upon the "basic unit of remuneration" which corresponds to the lowest grade
and amounts to about US$80 per month in 1982. Some 150 to 200 percent is
then added to basic remuneration to arrive at total compensation.
Overallcompensation levels varied between US$150 and US$1,200 per month in
1981. In addition to this grade structure, there is a special salary scale
for political posts ranging from the vice-minister level to the President of
the Republic with monthly compensation of US$1,200-1,500. Their basic
salaries are defined in terms of multiples of the minimum salary for the
private sector. Although somewhat independent from public sector salary
adjustments, these political salaries constitute a de facto limit to civil
service salaries.
45.       During the past few years when Peru experienced considerable fiscal
difficulties, civil service compensation adjustments were consciously allowed
to lag substantially behind inflation and real salaries of civil servants
eroded. To some extent, this process was counteracted by an upward
reclassification of staff within the existing grade structure: while in 1970
almost 80 percent of Government employees were at grade VII and only 0.1
percent at grade I, grade VII had virtually disappeared by 1981 and about
five percent of employees were at grade I or at one of the supergrades. This
upgrading process, however, did not take place in the same way throughout the
public sector and has, therefore, resulted in great disparities. Moreover,
since collective bargaining takes place at the level of separate unions
within individual ministries, great salary differences have developed between
comparable jobs in different Government entities. In parallel, another
practice has emerged over the past few years: to get around the constraints
of the civil service pay scale, employees in key Government positions have
been put on the payroll of public entities like the Central Bank or the
State-owned Industrial Bank, which are not subject to civil service
regulations. This has added more complexity to an already complicated and
uneven system.
46.       Policy initiatives.  The Government recently set up a national
commission to overhaul the personnel structure and compensation system and to
reclassify staff. This is expected to result in major upward adjustments
throughout the public sector, but it would still not provide a satisfactory
solution to the compensation problem at the managerial level. For fiscal
reasons, the Government cannot afford the across-the-board salary increases
needed to make salaries competitive with the private sector. Greater
differentiation is, therefore, needed to make managerial salaries more
competitive. The proposed project would tackle this issue through the
establishment of a Senior Executive Service (SES) which would not be subject
to the limitations of the civil service salary scale. More specifically, the
Government would establish a Foundation for the Development of the Public
Sector, which could formally hire managers for public sector assignments
(paras. 60 and 62). The Foundation would be funded mainly by the
Government. At the same time, it would be open to receive, on secondment,
persons from the private sector, which could contribute to its broadening and
strengthening.
The Parastatal Sector
47.        Structure and performance.  The parastatal sector in Peru comprises
about 140 enterprises. The State owns more than 90 percent of the shares in



- 13 -
100 of these, between 50 and 90 percent in 15, and less than 50 percent in
the rest. Traditionally, a distinction has been made between public
enterprises, which were subject to public sector regulations, and other
State-owned enterprises, which were run like private companies under private
commercial law. This distinction is no longer meaningful. In 1981,
virtually all public enterprises were transformed into limited liability
corporations and made subject to private commercial law. Although formally
these recently transformed companies are no longer subject to public sector
regulations, they continue to be exposed to a higher degree of Government
intervention than those State-owned companies that have always operated under
private law (para. 53).
48.       The parastatal sector increased substantially after the takeover by
the military in 1968. The expansion was largely uncoordinated and unplanned,
sometimes without clear objectives. Some of the companies were created by
the State, but most were acquired through nationalization or takeover of
bankrupt firms. The State often acquired title to shares of other, sometimes
unrelated, companies that were held by the firms taken over. As a result,
State-ownership is spread over a wide gamut of activities ranging from public
utilities (traditionally operated by the State), to mining and basic indus-
tries and even supermarkets and service industries. State-owned enterprises
are active in virtually every sector of the Peruvian economy. Their size
varies from the largest firms in the economy to some of the smallest firms,
and their value added accounts for about 20 percent of Peru's GDP. The
largest company, PETROPERU (the State-owned petroleum company) had sales of
US$1.3 billion and a staff of about 8,700 in 1981.
49.       Information on the parastatal sector's financial performance is
sketchy. Generally speaking, the financial results suggest that the sector
as a whole made small profits during the recent past but that its cash flow,
which was affected--inter alia--by price controls and subsidies, was not
sufficient to finance the sector's investment.  The Government had,
therefore, to provide equity and term financing (including guarantees for
external loans or the assumption of debts incurred by individual companies),
which constituted a heavy burden given the overall fiscal constraint.
50.       Administration.  The system for administering the parastatal sector
is complex and often confusing. The shares of 46 companies are held directly
by ministries, while those of the remaining companies are held by other
State-owned enterprises such as the National Development Corporation
(CONADE), the State-owned Banco de la Nacion or Inversiones COFIDE (ICSA).
In many cases, several enterprises and a ministry may hold shares in a single
company. They appoint the shareholders' board, which in turn appoints the
board of directors, often with ministerial approval. To complicate things
further, the President of the Republic has to approve all directors and to
appoint the presidents of all boards of directors. These procedures often
cause long delays and lend themselves to sending conflicting signals and
confusing corporate policies.
51.       There are no general and uniform guidelines for the administration
of the parastatal sector. Government objectives are usually imposed on an
ad-hoc basis by direct intervention in operations. Most of the problems
encountered in individual enterprises can be traced to weak management,
which, in turn, is the result of an environment characterized by the lack of



- 14 -
clearly defined objectives, multiple demands for information, overwhelming
controls, and ill-planned intervention. Thus, companies are often expected
to operate efficiently and make money, yet are subjected to price controls
and are called on to expand employment and make politically motivated
investments. The Comptroller General's intervention is particularly
heavy-handed and pervasive, often creating an atmosphere of suspicion and
fear that leads to timid management and over-extended reviews of decisions.
Ill-conceived price controls and cross-subsidization as well as deferred
payments among State-owned enterprises also affect financial performance
negatively and in a way which is difficult to qualify. This situation has
improved somewhat with the recent reorganization of the sector (paras. 47 and
54), the relaxation of price controls and more regular price adjustments. In
particular, salary restrictions have been eliminated and State-owned
companies are in a better position to attract better qualified managers.
52.       Many of the less autonomous firms lack the administrative skills
that could improve their efficiency. Information systems are generally poor,
and few enterprises--mostly manufacturing and service companies--have
detailed cost accounting systems. Many firms do not do any planning because
they do not have clear objectives. For the same reasons, financial
management is weak. Project evaluation is another weak area, and the lack of
technical skill makes the decision-making process vulnerable to political
pressures. Finally, some companies are facing technical problems because
their operations are not balanced or are unnecessarily complex. A case in
point is SIDERPERU, the State-owned steel company, which has excess rolling
capacity and uses three different technologies in a relatively small plant.
53.       Most of the problems related to the parastatal sector are concen-
trated in companies like public utilities that have been subjected to exten-
sive State involvement ("high-intervention companies"). Those companies that
have experienced lower levels of Government interference ("low-intervention
companies")--mostly manufacturing and service companies--have been run like
private companies except for certain procedures like bidding and auditing
and--to some extent--for certain corporate policies like pricing and
financing. Many of these low-intervention companies are likely candidates
for being sold to the private sector within the Government's divestiture
strategy (para. 17), while the high-intervention companies are likely to be
retained in State-ownership. While the common problems affecting the whole
parastatal sector can be tackled through relatively minor policy
changes--like streamlinig of bidding and auditing requirements--the deeper
rooted problems of the high-intervention firms require more assistance on a
company-by-company basis. The proposed project would concentrate on improv-
ing management of the companies to be retained in State-ownership both
through a holding-company approach (paras. 54 and 64) and individual tech-
nical assistance at the company level (para. 65).
54.       Policy initiatives.  The Government is preparing the ground for
streamlining the administration of the parastatal sector. In 1981, the
National Development Corporation (CONADE) was established to coordinate and
promote all Government activities in support of investment in private and
State-owned enterprises. It has two fully-owned subsidiaries: COFIDE, the
State development finance corporation, and INVERSIONES COFIDE (ICSA), an
equity holding company. ICSA is an offspring of COFIDE. It was set up to
promote investment through Government equity holdings and to take over all



- 15 -
equity investments previously held by COFIDE.  It is planned that eventually
all State shares will be transferred to ICSA, which will assume the role of a
holding company providing general guidance for and exercising financial
control over all State-owned companies. Most of the problems mentioned in
para. 51 could be solved by granting greater autonomy to the individual
firm. This would be achieved by the holding company approach which ICSA is
embarking on and the selling of companies to the private sector. Obviously,
this requires an upgrading of skills at the company level and firm guidance
from  ICSA, which itself needs to be strengthened.  The problems mentioned in
para. 51 need to be addressed on a company-by-company basis and following an
in-depth analysis of specific problems, The proposed project would provide
assistance for both (para. 60).
Previous Bank Activities
55.        Until now, the Bank has approached public sector management
problems in Peru on an individual project basis.  Recent project lending in
petroleum, power, water, and transport has included technical assistance to
tackle specific management issues in the corresponding sector institutions.
The 1979 US$115 million Program Loan also included technical assistance on a
somewhat broader scale, e.g., to strengthen tax administration, public
investment planning, and--to some extent--debt reporting. The proposed loan,
however, would be the first effort to address the management problem on a
broad front, basically through the development of adequate management tools
and of an adequate compensation system for managers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
56.        To address Peru's economic development problems and particularly
its needs in infrastructure, agriculture, mining, and the social sectors, the
present Government drew up an ambitious development program, which calls for
annual investment levels equivalent to eight-nine percent of GDP as compared
to five-six percent in the recent past. Executing this program represents a
challenge given not only the country's resource constraints and corresponding
difficulties of overall economic and financial management but also the public
sector's limited implementation capacity. As was mentioned in Part III
(paras. 36 and 37), the Government has experienced difficulties in managing
this expanded investment effort, particularly in sectors like transport,
education, and health. In view of these problems and in light of the Bank's
large contribution to the country's development efforts, in September of 1981
the Government requested technical assistance from the Bank to strengthen its
management capacity throughout the public sector. The Bank explored with
UNDP the possibility of UNDP financing--or at least cofinancing--for the
proposed project. However, no UNDP resources were available for this
purpose.
57.        Preliminary discussions of the proposed project were held during
the 1981 Annual Meetings in Washington, with follow-up discussions having
taken place in Lima towards the end of October. The appraisal took place in
November-December, 1981, with a post-appraisal in February 1982. There is no
separate Staff Appraisal Report. Annex III contains supplementary project
data. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 22-27, 1982. The
Peruvian delegation was headed by Mr. German Suarez, Project Coordinator, of
MEFC.



- 16 -
Project Objectives
58.       The proposed project's main goal is to provide technical assistance
which would result in improved management throughout Peru's public sector so
as to enable the country to make better use of its scarce financial and human
resources. While the project aims at providing the Government with more
adequate management tools and managerial staff, the Government--in a parallel
effort--intends to reduce the size of the public sector through sale of
enterprises to the private sector and, thus, to release some managerial
talent tied up in the control of these enterprises for alternative uses.
59.       By tackling key management problems at the level of the Central
Government and of State-owned enterprises and, thus, contributing to the
improved use of a large share of the country's total resources, the project
aims at more effective socio-economic development.
Project Description
60.       The project would consist of:
(a) technical assistance to the Central Government for the design and
implementation of a program budgeting system; for the design and
implementation of an adequate compensation system for managers; and
for improvements in key policy areas such as debt management,
investment planning, and taxation;
(b) technical assistance to the parastatal sector for upgrading and
strengthening of ICSA to make it an effective holding company for
State-owned enterprises and for improved management of a selected
number of individual State-owned enterprises; and
(c) training (including scholarships to foreign universities) for
public sector managers through existing or newly developed courses
at two private higher education institutions and at the Central
Bank.
61.       Technical Assistance to the Central Government.  This component
would account for about 69 percent of total project costs. It consists of
three subcomponents. The first subcomponent deals with the design and imple-
mentation of a program budgeting system for the Central Government. While
the system would cover the whole Central Government, it would focus on the
central budget office in MEFC (DGPP), on the presidency of the council of
ministers, which is responsible for the implementation of large regional
development projects, and on five other key development agencies, i.e. the
ministries of agriculture, transport, health and education as well as
cooperacion popular, the agency in charge of local public works projects with
high labor intensity and the participation of the local work force. Under
this subcomponent, a team of internationally recruited consultants, in
collaboration with Peruvian staff in planning and budgeting-related
positions, would design an improved planning and budgeting system and
implement it while preparing and executing the 1983 budget. Particular
emphasis would be given to monitoring and control of Government expenditures
to ensure optimum resource use.



- 17 -
62.       The second subcomponent deals with the design and implementation of
an adequate Government compensation system, particularly for senior man-
agers. It would include: (i) advice to INAP and the national commission
studying civil service salaries to support their efforts in overhauling the
overall civil service compensation system (see para. 46); (ii) the design and
establishment of a Senior Executive Service (SES) as a separate personnel and
compensation subsystem not subject to the limitations of the civil service
pay scale; and (iii) assistance in the recruitment of managers for SES posi-
tions within the Central Government and its dependent agencies as well as for
management positions in State-owned enterprises. The SES would be financed
through a Foundation (para. 46), which would also recruit SES personnel and
manage their placement within the public sector.
63.       Under the third subcomponent, technical assistance would be
extended to MEEC and the Central Bank in the following key policy areas:
(i) debt management, through the design and implementation of a comprehensive
and efficient computerized debt reporting system (including private-sector
and short-term debt); public investment, through monitoring of project execu-
tion and the evaluation of large and controversial projects to determine
their soundness or, if not justified, to provide the Government with a
rational basis to resist pressure groups lobbying for their execution; and
macroeconomic and financial management, through such studies as the reform
and opening up of the financial system, streamlining of tax incentives,
rationalization of state and local taxes, strengthening of tax administra-
tion, and short-term macro-economic indicators.
64.       Technical Assistance to the Parastatal Sector.  This second project
component would account for about 24 percent of total project costs. It con-
sists of two subcomponents. The first deals with the institutional strength-
ening of ICSA. Through technical assistance to ICSA and training of its
staff, a system of management by objectives backed by a computerized manage-
ment information and monitoring system would be designed and implemented.
This would allow ICSA to act effectively as holding company for the State-
owned companies under its supervision and to provide effective guidance for
and financial control of, these companies. The new management approach would
essentially rely on close monitoring of performance against agreed targets as
opposed to the present system of ad-hoc interventions by a multitude of
supervisory institutions (paras. 50 and 51). ICSA's management information
system would be designed in such a way that it could eventually be expanded
to cover all State-owned enterprises. This subcomponent would also include a
survey of all major State-owned enterprises to determine the most critical
ones and their most pressing problems. This would be the basis for the
second subcomponent.
65.       The second subcomponent deals with technical assistance to a small
number of critical State-owned enterprises, which would be retained in State-
ownership. The firms would be selected following the results of the survey
mentioned in para. 64, and the assistance would tackle the main weaknesses of
these firms and improve their performance. To the extent necessary, the
technical assistance would also include engineering advice to improve produc-
tion facilities or provide a better balance between different production
units within an enterprise.



- 18 -
66.       Training.  This third and last project component would account for
about seven percent of total project costs. It would support ongoing and/or
new public sector management training programs (i) by financing foreign
professors who would teach public administration in Peru; and (ii) by
providing scholarships to management or public administration schools
abroad. The assistance would be channeled through two private Peruvian
higher education institutions, the Escuela Superior de Administracion de
Negocios (ESAN) and the Universidad del Pacifico, as well as through the
Central Bank. Both ESAN and Universidad del Pacifico have well established
management training programs of good quality, which cater mainly to the
private sector. Under the project, they would expand their programs and
develop curricula--based on a survey of market needs--geared to strengthening
the public sector. The Government would finance the studies for the
development of the curricula, while foreign professors to teach selected
courses would be provided with Bank financing. The Central Bank has a long
standing overseas scholarship program for future managers in both the Central
Bank and other public sector institutions. This program would be
complemented by the project's scholarship component.
67.       The programs and studies to be executed under the project are
expected to help tackle the root problems of a public administration system
that has historically developed in a largely unstructured way and in an
intricate legal traditionwith countless laws, decrees, regulations and other
rules, mostly with ad-hoc purposes. The system has built up considerable
inertia and is suffering from the lack of competent staff at all levels. The
implementation of the proposed changes will be difficult. However, the
Government is fully committed to carry out the reforms included in the
project. It considers Bank support for the proposed institutional changes
essential to take advantage of outside experience and advice. Through its
studies subcomponent, the project affords the Bank an opportunity to continue
the policy dialogue in such important areas as public investment, tax system
and administration, financial liberalization, and external debt management.
Terms of reference agreed upon between the Government and the Bank for
assistance under the most important components to be initiated immediately or
already under way are contained in Annex VI; they supplement the project
description contained in paras. 60-66.
Project Execution
68.       MEFC--represented by a project coordinator who reports to the
Vice-Minister of Finance--would be in charge of overall supervision and
coordination of project execution. The Central Government and training
components of the project would be executed directly by MEFC given its key
responsibility for economic and financial management, while the parastatal
sector component would be executed by CONADE/ICSA in their roles as
coordinator and holding company for State-owned enterprises, respectively
(para. 54). Other public and private institutions would also participate in
the project in subsidiary roles: the Presidency of the Council of Ministers,
the Ministries of Agriculture, Transport and Communications, Health,
Education, and Cooperacion Popular in the implementation of the program
budgeting system; the Public Sector Foundation (para. 46) and INAP in the
overhaul of the compensation system and the implementation of the SES; ESAN
and Universidad del Pacifico as well as the Central Bank in the training
component; and individual State-owned enterprises in the parastatal technical



- 19 -
assistance component. CONADE and ICSA would enter into a Project Agreement
with the Bank to ensure efficient project execution. The other participating
institutions except the Foundation--i.e. the Central Bank, INAP, ESAN, and
Universidad del Pacifico--would enter into a Complementary Participation
Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank which would spell out in detail
their respective obligations under the project. The establishment of the
Public Sector Foundation, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to support
the SES would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The entering of the Foundation into contractual
arrangements with the Government, which would include, inter alia, a program
of the Foundation's activities and provisions for its adequate funding in a
way satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure the effective execution of the SES
component, would be a condition of disbursement of this component (Section
3.02 and Schedule 1, paragraph 4 (iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       To oversee the project's execution, the Government--following a
Bank recommendation--appointed a capable full-time project coordinator who,
in turn, is assisted by an advisory group. The project coordinator and
advisory group, all satisfactory to the Bank, would be maintained under terms
of reference, also acceptable to the Bank, for the whole period of project
execution (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The coordinator
reports to the Vice-Minister of Finance, is the prime contact for all
concerned parties on project matters, and is responsible for the coordination
of all actions necessary for project implementation such as the drafting of
terms of reference, contracting of consultants, and the provision of
logistical support for the consultants. The advisory group consists of
senior officials of MEFC and CONADE who would rally the necessary
institutional and logistical support for the project and help to resolve
problems that might impede the successful implementation of the project,
including the provision of counterpart personnel and funding. The proposed
organizational set-up for project execution is charted in Annex IV. In
addition, Bank staff would provide guidance for all critical decisions and
closely follow project execution.
70.       The overall project design would be kept flexible, and the scope
and timing of each of the components would be periodically reviewed by the
Government and the Bank.  Should difficulties arise or Government priorities
change, funds could be reallocated within the project to ensure achievement
of its overall objectives. To ease project implementation further, extensive
use is foreseen of experienced consulting firms which could take over complex
assignments, thus reducing the number of contracts to about 15-20 and
minimizing the burden of supervision. Moreover, standardized contracts and
streamlined procedures would be used to facilitate administration.
Nevertheless, it is expected that the proposed project would require
intensive Bank supervision.
71.       The execution of the project requires certain institutional
changes. Planning and budgeting units in the key ministries referred to in
para. 61 were recently merged into sectoral programming and budgeting
offices.   Moreover, the appropriate institutional setting and framework for
the central budget office would be studied under the project considering
alternative solutions within MEFC including the possibility of creating a new
budgeting entity with ministerial rank. The Government and the Bank would
review the consultants' recommendations, and agreed changes suggested by



- 20 -
these consultants, if any, would be put into effect by June 30, 1983 (Section
3.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
72.       Total project costs (net of taxes) are estimated at US$21.0
million, of which US$8.2 million or 39 percent represents foreign exchange.
This cost estimate includes physical contingencies amounting to ten percent
of the base cost and price contingencies, which are based on expected
international inflation, in dollar terms, of 8.0 percent in 1983, 7.5 percent
in 1984, and 7.0 percent in 1985. Total financing required for the project
is US$21.2 million, including a US$150,739 capitalized front-end fee. The
proposed Bank loan of US$10.2 million would cover about 48 percent of the
project's estimated total financial requirements, including all foreign
exchange costs (US$8.2 million), subsistence expenses of foreign consultants
in local currency (US$1.8 million), and the front-end fee. The bulk of local
costs (US$9.3 million) would be covered by the Government, with the remainder
(US$1.7 million) being provided by ICSA and the State-owned companies
benefiting from the program. Bank financing of local currency expenditures
is proposed for two reasons: (i) to facilitate the execution of consultants'
contracts which include compensation for local subsistence expenses; and (ii)
to increase the Bank's share in total financing to secure sufficient
influence on project design and execution.
73.       Consulting services account for almost 98 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of the project. It is estimated that a total of
484 staff-months in external consulting services is needed to execute the
project. The average cost per staff-month is estimated at US$16,300,
including subsistence and travel. While this unit cost may appear high, it
is reasonable considering that most of the jobs would be provided by leading
international management consulting firms and investment-banks. Contracts
were, for example, awarded to Management Analysis Center Inc. (MAC) of
Cambridge, Mass. for the implementation of the program budgeting system and
to Merrill Lynch of New York for the implementation of a debt-management
system.
74.       While the Government would be the borrower, the portion of the loan
earmarked for the parastatal sector (US$2.7 million) would be onlent by the
Government in dollars to ICSA (US$500,000) for institutional strengthening
and--through CONADE--to other State-owned companies (US$2.2 million) for
technical assistance. Onlending to ICSA, CONADE and the companies would be
at the same interest as the proposed loan but on shorter maturity of five
years, including one year of grace (Section 3.01(c)ii of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Government would approve all technical assistance activities
for the parastatal sector and assume the foreign exchange risk for these
operations. The shorter maturities of these subloans are in line with the
expected pay-off from the benefits of the technical assistance, i.e.,
improved financial performance. Repayments of the principal of the loans to
ICSA and CONADE would be made to a special Government account earmarked for
support of the Public Sector Foundation.
75.       Retroactive financing to February 1, 1982 of up to US$1 million is
proposed to start the program budgeting, studies, and ICSA components in a
timely fashion (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
Procurement and Disbursement
76.       The proposed loan would mainly finance consultants' services and
some computer software and office equipment as well as training by expatriate
professors and overseas scholarships. Selection of consultants--whose
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory
to the Bank--would be according to the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants" (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). To facilitate the
contracting of consultants, standard contracts reviewed by the Bank would be
used with terms of reference agreed upon by the Government and the Bank.
Standard computer software packages and office equipment would be acquired
based on a comparison of price quotations by at least three qualified
suppliers (Section 2.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
77.       Loan disbursement is estimated to take about three years.
Disbursements on a substantial scale are expected to start immediately after
loan effectiveness, as several components--such as program budgeting and debt
management--have already been launched and would be retroactively financed.
The Bank loan would be disbursed 100 percent against services of
internationally recruited consultants (including travel expenses and
localsubsistence) and against directly imported goods and computer software,
but only 70 percent against expenditures for imported goods purchased from
local distributors. The proposed loan would also cover 100 percent of the
foreign exchange expenses of the training component, i.e.,tfor foreign
professors and scholarships.
Project Benefits and Risks
78.       The project intends to tackle public sector management problems on
a broad front in some of Peru's strategically most important public sector
institutions. Strengthened management of these units is expected to result
in a better use of Peru's scarce financial and human resources and improved
control of public sector activities in both financial and physical terms.
With its policy study components, the project would also help to improve
overall economic management. The project is further expected to improve the
execution of public investment projects through better monitoring, as well as
their improved preparation and planning in the future. It also aims at
greater autonomy and more flexible management of State-owned enterprises,
which should result in increased efficiency of this important sector of the
economy. The project constitutes an important complement to the Bank's
active lending program and the ongoing intensive policy dialogue with Peru.
79.       The project would study and propose ways of tackling many of the
root problems of Peru's public administration, which have developed over many
years. This is a difficult task that entails the risk that the project might
fail on political grounds. However, the project has awakened widespread
interest and support within the country, and the Government is fully
committed to it and determined to carry through on the reform measures
proposed under the project. The project also enjoys the full support of the
President of the Council of Ministers, who is also Minister of Economy,
Finance and Commerce. This risk is, therefore, minimal. Moreover, the
project's complexity and the involvement of a number of Government and
private institutions constitute an implementation risk. The proposed project
organization (para. 68 and Annex IV), however, is expected to minimize this



- 22 -
particular risk. Periodic reviews by the Government and the Bank of the
project's scope and timing (para. 70) as well as close Bank supervision of
the project should further help to keep its implementation risks manageable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The (i) draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Peru and the
Bank; (ii) draft Project Agreement between the Republic of Peru, CONADE, and
ICSA; (iii) the draft Complementary Participation Agreement between the
Republic of Peru, the Bank, the Central Bank, INAP, ESAN, and Universidad del
Pacifico; and (iv) the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
81.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text of the report and are listed in Annex III.   A special condition of
loan effectiveness would be the establishment of the Public Sector
Foundation. The entering by the Foundation into contractual arrangements
with the Government, which would provide--inter alia--for its adequate
funding, would be a condition of disbursement of the SES component.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 1, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-23-                                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                         RIEPEEC  GROUPS (WEIHID  AvE5ls
STFOU9ANID SQ. Y11.)                                                    - lST RCET  ESTIMATE)
LOA12.2                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDL  InC               KIDDLE INCCHE
AGRICULTURAL     305.5              1960  /b   1970 /b zSTUEATE /b   LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN           EOPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 290.0       470.0     930.0                  1902.0                   2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGAXS OP CDAL EQUIVALENT)    417.3         662.7    716.1                   1259.9                   2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSADS) 10181.0    13461.0   17379.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT Q TOTAL) 46.3         57.4      67.4                    65.7                     47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      27.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MLLIONS)                         48.8
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS EACHED                  2080
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        7.9        10.5      13.2                    35.2                     83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    33.3         45.0      55.5                    92.5                    155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.6        44.3      42.9                    39.7                     31.1
15-64 YRS.                        52.0         51.7      53.8                    56.1                     61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.4          3.9       3.5                     4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.8       2.6                     2.4                      1.6
URBAN                              5.1         4.9       4.2                     3.8                      3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5         41.5      35.9                    31.4                     23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0         14.8      10.9                     8.4                      9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         3.0       2.4                     2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         96.0       102.0       77.0                   110.0                    116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  98.3         97.2      97.5/c                 108.4                    125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         64.0        60.1       59.27T                  66.0                     92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      28.0         25.1      24.07w                  34.0                     35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    37.8        20.2        9.5                     5.6                      9.2
HIIALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.4         53.1     58.1                     64.2                     67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         162.9       119.7       87.7                   64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                            14.6         35.0     48.3                     65.6
URBAN                            30.2        58.0      60.0                    78.9
RURAL                             0.8         8.0       25.0                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        36.0      34.0                    59.3
URBAN                              ..        52.0      51.0                     75.3
RURAL                              ..        16.0        ..                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2011.7      1904.9    1532.4/c                1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2205.0/d    1000.5    676.17?                  1063.5                    634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            425.1       469.6    538.3/c                  477.4                    286.8
URBAN                           273.8/e    524.9    426.47T                    679.8                    192.0
RURAL                               ..      3055.2   5705.2/c                 1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        19.0       23.0/c                  27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.9         4.8/f
URBAN                             4.8         4.97        ..
RURAL                             4.9         4.67?.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.3          1.9/f
URBAN                             2.0          1.77?
RURAL                             2.7         2.47?
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             26.0        32.0/f
URBAN                             50.7        54.37/?f
RURAL                             4.2         2.77T



- 24 -
ANNEX I
page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        103.0     112.0                     104.3                     102.4
MALE                  95.0       111.0      115.0/c                  106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                71.0        96.0      io8.0T                   103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 15.0         30.0      50.0/c                    41.3                      60.2
KALE                  18.0        34.0       53.07W                   40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                13.0        26.0       46.0/c                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  19.9          17.1       18.3/c                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.6         35.5      40.2                      29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          12.3         17.3      29.2                      16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         72.5/f    79.7                      79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.8         17.1      18.6/c                    42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        108.0        135.1     147.5                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.2         29.3      50.2                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TNOUSAND POPULATION                     ..       123.3      51.4/c                    63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  6.4            ..         ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3186.8       3891.8    5149.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.2         20.8      23.2                      24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              52.5         48.0      40.0                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.6         18.4      18.5                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.3         28.9       29.6                     33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 49.6         45.8       45.5                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               13.2         12.0      13.7                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.7        1.6                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39.0/g          *
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4ft        61.0/f
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.5/g         1.97        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8.O7          7.07        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     235.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..     l8o.07o                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     293.0/c                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     200.07W                   371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      49.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1964;  /e 1962;  /f 1972;  /g Personal income within labor force.
May, 1982



- 25 -                                                                             AINNEX I
Ortw"  mfct                                                                            Page  3 of 5
V-o    &I.Uft*m)  rio 4-o                ItO*  oo  Itate   worll1y 7096.1 thOe mototfmtltfota  anltlW            l.it ab-ld  llIl 004ra  Ot                      0  ft tatI--
oatoodt  aampratoooao o        I-Vat.o  mtaodsrdford dotfaittir   -a totpt  toa  by lit f-oo  -otrfe   ftroftto   tiett. f-Oeb data Ite. 
The foaaoo  6opa or  (1) the tae  0*00  grop of It... mbjt ro-tfy sod (2) a Iooootey potap atoP                          -4 smthot Ooto  m-5og  t,-o  It-  'f. rorarr  prop
of Otto sob- ot  o           _opfoot fat   "I0gb Lote      Oil ttP-rto-" 3-oP taoo  0Kidtdl. Lacos Worh Attila mad atoddlo ftm    f. tbom.  omboam  atfara
tto-altatifotial    (  ie~ cole-ot  ooatt dlat  rh   -e mo. --otoo1smghe   ttlasir tsar  for moat tadfo.-a  mm  mim  oty at
oat todltooot 00 0 tiedr- a                                        tt ft theh tLol-ty  tad ro.tormobti t oopsC
or tats    otrrsa.morat ol kttlt  faretaer t  lI  folow;1979 d.ta.              Ibaoli-rota  to-r.Roytlo..obLhob.aao. p. -ooatf  stoOP
by -t III.,ta  pbpmtLOts.  ortmitatraaiPrtatfpotl) tami-
Ott? P70CfO    0$   COP Hpr -tapr    totaa   orr   oso    rr. -1o-t-                                   Ita  ta.-  ata.  trebled.  tora                      h--ttma.  etd,r   iao .- bth
totatd by oa-    - --oto   sabed to Woll tok ALI-e 11978-0  loaf.);  L06O,                           aol matrot ctom ttperata jy troffs by I phatafeis  tOo  by 
liP7t, otot t98l                                                                                     -4r1 -La                --tto.  ors  _idLt. stoo  obiob  afLt  a-,atfs-a  mo-
dotta mad proald. 0 1..110  te-e of todol.  foetlftt.a.  Por  t0000-
iflz't Coh,lfPT lOf PER COPtA - o.aol  .oao.r..          ofr..     to   rop   (too                     riti-7000   rortoptl  tat-ad VW.prttptam                            lb pil.
bootParl.aloo  tIl-fmo  tbaasola) A.h Of Jolt 1; 1960. 1970. tad 1960               ttSft
llttror  ltlollo   ofotha sroo-y   f fa t-ta -obblttay of  oto                         soth AfaoOlomo,       bo-to  o  bIgot -y orfy ta  f  toctajo  to
--U0 ooerle  lol0. ItlO, aol 1904  loot                                                        oh. b-ombod faE-        retolproo
taoalooloo Peolrttoooo                                                        boetate toobMGto ofIoometta-oa.   oho   Mot1-org   os
totl, .o.oaltt  topI too. ar   arI bftrle  ortllt  too yfrottlt   taf..                         .rolog.  optiot.Polog   ald    oa-p   oata_a_                          o
--7tlo dtaorr  ltmrtfa   trId  ot pols  of altor% l_.l tato ....otr   aco
to -of   a,ttoaL.  a  bltb-   aeoot-a0 sloboatoope   abatttomo                             OAttott    lorot   7010   itilo) tto.obs  a   oa
lotd    a  looa  fe  oreoeyaablrt0a  7.  yta -orpradoaofaolboffaaatttbrritp-atrtgqorot                                                                              s  at-rg
Sr.ttoo7yap..ooo,-,Isfoo lotarypop.               -toatir   0It'all to                       ator   too      ao , moto- ` ol-t                  stta,ml modtoat
tI (ii  Fi  bii otl ta ialot  tat-a, ~u - itad aloatboogistao to.r-.r.lmota)i   Ott  atra .raytre   opctr;m                                                     frmot
fI 7t opaaetlyl  Iot   o   trtoto    or   draot   toabt                                           ar   a   lote     rIifr "I aeh  of ptmtrlyb a ar-io    a
toib  yea  2toh  owlbti  tart of  roltar at iot-iltyrooo -ooat-                                           F-Idoomobo  -  -aoat aaegdtmf  - llaootd ta liar; me,edmo
eret  -ra.1ooolatormftoo  a,amr   tapaa  pinty  -toateerar
abor oifl horahd                                                                                     olyo  17 to I? Y-at  af ag; toafofottoaso.o..o
ao-I 196 . lllao 1707  data                                                                   Oat-fmheotf   ptary   olaat-oy-toa  suooa   rato...                             to~
fftlatoo  ooOtrotor  oattat  -thOldtoa ((I-IA  y-sr),  -eaf o-ft.o (15-beryalaeooyot)advddy0tta fteceaoti
Ilaiat; 1964, 1070. oaf 190t  dora.                                                             Ooflttrtt -             o ot)   Liart-a adults  tabl. to oaad  ad o1tito
lal-t  fer 0050-60. loob,al110i.Pmrgrtoo   Ute  thomo.                                                                            oalre7-Oaa.r   taaaem                     aa
proola  1060  1910. or  1980 dot.-oltrottlo
tr-d0 Doarh boo  (pt;, aom          - )oooo  (otto ea  tload o&t-arjlaOotmo)tttoa.dpelto)-11 oppya at roottt  for radi
pooltaa    bI. 10)0  to = 1000 dart..                                                       bodaratarlohtopotaaod at                              -1 _oolrta  ealde 
al r    .a oallp fi-a-e-aataoaa   sao   to  00. 1707. aal 190.                          m  roaodaaattlItwt0
roart~~~~~~~~ ofotdhotgao(5O    ara   b   o   tt-aro            ttote                  taattataaota(    thootdoooleio)                          - faa  rh em oae al-
rot   arotd atotoIa tot at doop.toloioaof "atlygrasol  atooar aaamsbea  deho.eaaotetlabot
POlO 0000 tolflltllt                                                    to ha  'laIty  ft ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It "P,"atIt Loaa  toot  I10       eh
rt -dapp roloel.0   A4grgah   pt dota of-        tbooar  t  oedaL-00  O
oolatt -ti   ldutr  Odor atlhtm; t90bt'5, 1970, aOl 1910 d-fo.                        hao  oe   artlttoao)-foafatyato    rooa   all
pa  dy.  A"oetlohlt aPltmoprit(tat   praooot. tlorobo                                           oa_-moalo; 1960. 1bIt aol Itadar
rooro,odthoo   to aaao    Oat -aytta              di0 fIr 0001bt-  ,ae- o                   trol (ottof            o to ao fotot om pa tttt- 5f  attoa  laor4 tot.
eatstalo-ttod by PAD boot at  taolf           -ttol   a   -et-o    ot-7                      dthioRoUptao              f tatoL obot 'feet   196._1070 ai  19th, .lot.
Ifatl   rr;1961-65. 1970 tad 1977  Oa                                                     1161, 1'oI sad 1081 data.
tot  appy ofloa  ytflay POc   ootf   oftoo  fa deffod to iboa.  to-                      attryttoatoMtt    otoa,mat                              fatmoi  tahar tore a
allaoaooa of67 grao of ttal tootrto  ea laoool 10toaaa  t otfo    0001900. 170). ard fOft) dots.  Thesear Itas  00M   U,oe  pat.I            pet Is  ot
yotar Prora  of  ttol 10fa_ta  ho     bo 0010*1 P-otota.    Thtaa otot                     -      ofOotot oItV_                                                    LIoto  o   b    etoalo   ollo   -aed.  A
aaotloaoea   aao   cooafort-    -ath. fop- at h.. d    O   otb   ided                  Oooteooooo   at                 P- htoo   aaotro              15 oo. 05 ald o
doatd  .ooa locatyl 101-05. 1970 _ 000 tOll       I (ot.t  rht  ot~tt lho  foot.
trla lot. Ooatod  fart lift rbira; 100, 1010 tad 1980 Iota,o  ththlo
Ottt toataoy 0  tttttoero   -  ottttoant  f yoa-  aO life  -emjelo                  Ob  tilog totfoof-  -r  tro   oteatoo toe    f Patley lo-1I,
at bierb; 1960. 1970 aol lWOf  oot.,                                                              a-    oldh1 ha -oteprto4 atha  -a.td-rat,irtto-t
1000tpao)y00   pa   toaf)-too   eab    flfar   rr   atyo                                       ot.st  ooooeFoerlot   oa-lot  a   totf-oia  o   oa 
ofotPar tb-.adIoaboh;16.27ao1)0dt.haooparpfatrttltrhtto-folblwtobaaom
hataas  Oa a at   trota  yylta)-011,otr   0   oa  -to                                               trtaal   IdeOoo  Ilt~ pi.. -m-earla  -ot.O-d eL.rtoat  art
faort  oroooothrtdfror   ha70rtr    raatto    a   r                                           tt  attt, odlot-ant fapbltb.or ooo  ot, Ltota  fto ooboo  at ar
tetaaaba aom    atlld tooly tobat cotaoeOoraetoof tht h-oobad                               aai  trl _- foot   fPop tlota  (tbo  aol coof  i   oo0htt
Ia ato boat to mttaO  a do-poauotoat  tf    df E ,ft   40totl5 
Sooetof Pro. (rt tIL. oetso   11 tato) atac  by  -t I.r -tp.ta I0
pitaao    fobIr,optiaoiloa,   aot  diapa-alimy boololt
lb  allato ti      i  ieaa.abm at ett-aotece..a   aaa   rtt
modeooo-mtfo  byoato-btaooymtos  0    btoym  of pifptetma ta  ahyimS-L                                                                                   .
tar tottallarsoas.-y   =
Paplofo  pr taotooo- Ppoatoo1.10404 10  o*o  ot  pttitgohj-tooat o,oom   ot e1fa






PERU                                                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
A CT UA L                                                       ESTIMATED        PROJECTED                GROWTH RATE (1 p.a.)                 1977
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                          1965            1970           1975          1976          1977           1978          1979p          198op           1981            1985            1965-76R   1976-80       1980-85            1977
(rnilliosn  of US dollars at 1977 prices)                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GDP
Gross Domestic Product                                    8902.5         10693.6        13376.8       13647.1       13639.6       13570.8        14079.0        14516.4         15082.5         18792.5             3.9          1.6         5.3              100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                                 -610.9            130.0        -246.9        -179.4           0.0        -235.9          679.9          872.1           317.0           558.2             n.a          n.a         n.e                0
Groas Domostic Incoae (GDY)                               8291.6         10823.6        13129.9       13467.7       13639.6       13334.9       14758.9         15388.5        15399.5          19350.7             4.4          3.4         4.7              100.0
Imports                                                   1840.2          2190.1         2985.4        2697.7        2706.8        1888.7         2086.8         3004.6         3455.3           3724.7             3.5          2.7         4.4               19.8
Exports                                                   2314.3          2616.8         1906.9        1908.8        2129.5        2431.2        2730.1          2578.5         2632.6           2979.6           -1.7           7.8         2.9               15.6
Exports, Term  of Trade Adjosted                          1703.4          2746.8         1660.0        1729.4        2129.5        2195.3         3410.0         3450.6         2949.6           3537.8             0.1         18.9         0.5               15.6
Resource Gap, Termas of Trade Adjusted (-: surplus)    136.8              -556.7         1325.4         968.3         577.3        -306.6       -1323.2          -446.0          505.7            186.9            n.0           n.a         n.e                4.2
Total Consuoption                                         6461.3          8669.0        11313.3       11694.8       12172.2       11272.3        11633.5        12543.7        12990.5          15787.9             5.4          1.8         4.7               89.2
Investment                                                1967.1          1597.9        3142.0         2741.2        2044.7        1756.0        1802.2          2398.8         2914.7           3749.7             3.1        -3.3          9.3               15.0
Domestic Savings                                          1830.3          2154.6         1616.6        1772.9        1467.4        2062.6         3125.4         2844.8         2409.0           3562.8           -0.3          12.5         4.6               10.8
j/ prelimrinary
PRICES IN US DOLLARS (1977 - 100)
Export Price Index                                          32.9            46.5           87.4          90.6         100.0          97.7         148.6           175.4          164.3            243.4
Import Price Index                                          44.7            44.3          100.4          95.7         100.0         108.1         119.0           131.0          146.7            205.1
Terms of Trade Index                                        73.6           105.0           87.1          94.7         100.0          90.4         124.9           133.9          112.0            118.7
Annual Average Exchange Rate (Soles per S)                  26.8            38.7           40.8          57.4          83.8         156.3         224.6           288.7          416.0              n.a
GDP BY SECTOR                                                    LABOR FORCE                                                   LABOR PRODUCTIVITY
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY                             In Mil. of US              Percent of            Growth                                     Percent of         Growth                                      Percent of            Growth
IN 1973 PRICES                                                      Dollars                    Total               Rate             In Thoosands               Total             Rate             In US Dollars               Av8'                 Rate
1970         1980         1970       1980          70-80          1870        1980         1970   1980           70'80           11          1980         1970   980               ____0
Agriculture (incl. fishing)                                   1534.2       1457.8          17.3       11.8         -0.5          2011.9      2248.0         48.0      40.0        1.1            762.6       648.5         36.1       29.4         -1.6
Industry (mining, mnof., electr., constr.)                    3226.3       4712.4          36.5      38.1           3.9           769.1      1037.2         18.4      18.5        3.0          4194.9       4543.4        198.6      206.2           0.8
Services (all others)                                         4084.8       6198.1          46.2       50.1          4.3          1407.6      2328.3         33.6      41.5        5.2           2902.0      2662.1        137.4      120.8         -0.9
Total/Average                                                 8845.3      12368.3         100.0      100.0          3.4          4188.6      5613.5        100.0    100.0         3.0           2111.8      2203.3        100.0      100.0           0.4
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                                                               ESTIMATED       PROJECTED
(as percent of Current GDP)                                     1965            1970          1975         1976         1977         1978            1979      1980         1981           1 82
Current Revenue                                                 13.2            14.6          14.0          13.4        13.5         14.3           16.0        18.4         16.6          17.2
Current Expenditure                                             12.4            12.1          14.4          14.8        16.9         15.8           12.8        16.2         16.5          15.7
Current Savings                                                   0.8            2.5          -0.4          -1.4        -3.4         -1.5            3.2         2.2          0.1           1.5
Capital Expenditures                                             3.9             3.7           4.5           4.5         3.5          3.1            3.7         4.7          4.6           4.1
External Assistance (Net)                                         1.0            0.5           2.3           1.8         3.0           0.4         -0.7          0.3          0.3            0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                                                 A C T U A L
(as percent of Total Current Expenditure)                       1968            1973          1976         1977         1978                          DETAIL ON                                       1981/85 Development Plan
PUBLIC SECTOR                                                      I__Tot_I
Edocation                                                       30.6            27.9          22.9          18.1        16.1                          INVESTCMNT PROGRAM                                Million
Health                                                            9.0            6.3           6.2           4.7         6.0                                                                           1981 Prices
Agriculture                                                       3.6            4.4           1.8            1.3         3.4
Other Economic Services                                           3.2            4.0           5.2           3.2         2.7                          Agriculture, Fishing                               1557.2           14.1
General Services (including defense)                            46.4            42.7          46.9          54.1        45.2                          Industry, Tourism and Mining                        924.1            8.3
Interest on Debt                                                 5.4            11.3          10.8          15.1        24.1                          Energy                                             2688.1           24.2
Other                                                             1.8            3.3           6.2           3.5          2.5                         Transport and Communication                        2547.2           23.0
Social and Local Interest Projects                3367.6            30.4
Total Current Expenditures                                   100.0           100.0         100.0         100.0       100.0
T 0 T A L                                    11084.2           100.0
MONEY AND CREDIT                                                  1973         1974         1975         1975         1976         1976        1977          1977         1978         1978         1979          1979         1980          1981 p
(Bilioss of Soles outstanding
at the end of period)
Money end Quasi-Money                                             96.3        120.0        141.8        142.4        166.3         166.8      216.2         220.5        344.1        361.1        686.4         725.9        1305.1        1973.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                      27.2         26.9         49.7         60.3        101.4        115.3       149.3        198.9         262.2        303.7        204.1        237.0          371.5         682.2
Sank Credit to Private Sector                                     73.2         84.5        108.2        109.8        134.5        136.0       167.8         173.8        233.1        243.2        382.8         442.5         801.8        1521.8
Underlying Exchange Rate (S/. per US9)                            38.7         38.7         38.7         65.0         65.0         85.0        85.0         160.0        160.0        225.0        223.0         390.0         390.0         390.0
Money as Percent of GDP                                           25.0         24.3         22.6         22.7         20.0         20.1        18.9          19.3         18.7         19.6         19.9          21.1          23.5          20.7
Conmer Price Indes in Soles (1977-100)                        37.5          43.9         54.3                      72.4                    100.0                     157.8                      264.7                       421.4
Annual Percentage Change In:
Consumer Price Index in Soleei                                  9.5          16.9         23.7                      33.5                     38.0                      57.8                       67.7                        59.2          75.4
Sank Credit to Public Sector                                    53.7         -1.2         84.8                      68.2                     29.5                       31.8                     -32.8                        56.8          83.6
Rank Credit to Private sector                                  27.7          15.5         28.1                      22.4                     23.4                       34.1                      57.4                        81.2          89.8






* * S..  7:  .            r~~~ ..   ..   .. 






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Amount
Loan                                                          (less cancellations)
Number     Year            Borrower             Purpose         Bank    Undisbursed
-- US$ million ---
27 loans fully disbursed                                        409.2
949        1973    Republic of Peru        Education            24.0         1.9
1196        1976    Republic of Peru        Transport            76.5        22.0
1215       1976    Republic of Peru         Power                35.6         4.9
1281        1976    CENTROMIN               Mining               39.7         4.7
1283       1976    Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.           21.6         9.6
1358        1977    COFIDE                  Industry             35.0         3.9
1403       1977    Republic of Peru         Agriculture          25.0        21.3
S-11        1978    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         8.8         2.5
1771        1980    Republic of Peru        Irrigation           56.0        51.1
1806        1980    PETROPERU               Petroleum Prod.    32.5          27.0
1812        1980    Republic of Peru        Rural Dev.           15.0        14.4
1888        1980    Republic of Peru        Preinvestment         7.5         5.1
S-19        1980    SIDERPERU               Technical Asst.       5.0         4.7
1963        1981    CORPAC                  Aviation             58.0        57.6
1968        1981    COFIDE                  Industry             60.0        60.0
2018        1981    ELECTROPERU             Power                25.0        25.0
2064        1981    Central Reserve Bank  Industry               26.0        26.0
2091        1982    Republic of Peru        Transport            93.0        93.0
2117        1982    PETROPERU               Industry              5.3         5.3
Total                                                    1,058.7
of which has been repaid                                 183.5
Total now outstanding                                     875.2
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid             18.3                  -
Total now held by Bank                                     875.2
Total undisbursed                                                      440.0
1/   Since March, the Bank has approved four further loans to Peru:  (i) US$40.6
million for a Lima Water Supply Project, presented to the Executive Directors
on May 11, 1982; (ii) US$40.6 million for an Agriculture Research and
Extension Project, presented to the Executive Directors on May 20, 1982;
(iii) US$81.2 million for a Sixth Power Project, presented to the Executive
Directors on June 15, 1982; and (iv) US$81.2 million for a Petroleum
Production Enhancement Project, presented to the Executive Directors on
August 10, 1982.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982) 1/
Type of
Year                 Obligor                          Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1960         Ilidustrias Reunidas, S.A.           Home Appliances   0.2          -       0.2
1960         Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.         Bricks               0.3       -       0.3
1960         Durisol del Peru, S.A.               Building
Materials           0.3        -       0.3
1960; 1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers                4.1       -       4.1
1962; 1968  Cemento Andino, S.A.                  Cement              2.3       0.2      2.5
1964; 1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo             Cement               1.1      0.5      1.6
1975         Southern Peru Copper Corp.           Mining              15.0       -      15.0
1978         Cia. de Minas Buenaventura           Mining              2.0       0.5      2.5
1980         Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.                Mining               2.7      0.5      3.2
1981         Sogewiese                            Leasing              3.0      0.1      3.1
1981         Consorcio Energetico de              Power
Huancavelica                      Transmission         4.5       -       4.5
Total gross commitments                                 35.5      1.8    37.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               18.0       0.4    18.4
Total held by IFC                                       17.5      1.4    18.9
Total undisbursed incl.
participants' portion                                  8.2       -       8.2
I/   Since March 31, 1982, IFC has approved a US$15.0 million loan investment in
Palmas del Espino, a palm oil project located in the Ceja de Selva area of
Peru, as well as a US$3.5 loan and equity investment in the mining company
Gran Bretana, a polymetallic mining project located in the Sierra region.



- 30 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan 949-PE:      Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about 40
months behind schedule owing to start-up problems including weaknesses in the
project unit and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. In order to resolve these
problems, the project has been modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank
disbursement percentage, create a revolving fund and improve administrative
procedures (see President's Memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result,
the pace of project execution has improved substantially over the past year, and
disbursements now stand at about US$22.1 million.
Loan 1196-PE:    Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost
completed, although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties.
There were serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity. These
problems have been largely overcome and construction is now underway on all
project components. The project has been modified so as to reallocate funds for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment and eliminate improvement of those road
sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time (see President's
Memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE:    Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of economic
difficulties as well as procurement problems, have delayed the project's power
distribution component and completion is expected about a year behind schedule.
Serious delays were also experienced in getting the technical assistance program
of the loan underway; however, all consultants have now been retained, and with
strong support from the current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the
program is now well advanced. Because of the delays, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1281-PE:    CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6,
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component was delayed by about two
years because of the lack of local counterpart funds owing to the recession of the
late 1970s.  CENTROMIN is now proceeding with the project with support from
additional Government counterpart funds, as well as a supplementary IDB loan and
commercial bank borrowing to cover inflationary cost increases. Engineering,
procurement and mine development activities on this part of the project are
well-advanced. The mine-water treatment plant has now been completed.
Loan 1283-PE:    Urban Sites and Services Developmer.t Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the project by
about one year. All components are now moving ahead well and disbursements stand
at US$12.0 million. Because of past delays, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to end-1982.
Loan 1358-PE:    Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date: March 30, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment and to
lower than anticipated demand for the loan in the late 1970s.  In view of this,
the Borrower -- the National Development Bank (COFIDE) - agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions, which
would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing. With this
action and improving economic conditions over the past two years, demand for the
credit line has increased, and it is now almost fully committed.
Loan 1403-PE:    Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of May
20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Because of the weakness of the project unit, there was a long delay in
completing the designs for civil works in the six valleys where irrigation systems
are to be improved.  The unit has been substantially strengthened over the past
few years, the design phase is now complete and construction has started. The
project, however, is now several years behind schedule.
Loan S-11-PE:    Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The main components of this project consisted of the feasibility study
for the Mantaro water transfer scheme and a master plan for Lima's water system.
The Mantaro study has been completed, and all other components are being
implemented satisfactorily.



"age 5 of 6
Loan 1771-PE:    Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million Loan
of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is gaining momentum, 'rfle implementation of most of
the Bank-financed components of the project has begun or is in the process of
being started.
Loan 1806-PE:    Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; USF32.5 million Loan of April
28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1983; Closing Date:
January 31, 1983.
The project got underway more slowly than expected because of the weak
implementation capacity of PETROPERU. All project components, however, have now
begun and execution should improve in the coming months.
Loan 1812-PE:    Puno Rural Development; US$15 million Loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Although there was a delay in making this loan effective, project
activities are now underway. Consultants for the extension program have been
hired and irrigation system designs are being prepared.
Loan 1888-PE:    Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5
million Loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Consultants have been contracted and the final feasibility report for
the phosphate fertilizer project is being reviewed.
Loan S-19-PE:    SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 million Loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date: April 16, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
A consultant's report evaluating SIDERPERU's expansion plans has been
reviewed. A plan of action to deal with the findings of this report is being
discussed with SIDERPERU..
Loan 1963-PE:    Aviation Development Project; UO"Fq.0 million Loan of August 19,
1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Procurement activities for equipment have begun.
Loan 1968-PE:    Second Industrial Credit Project; US$60.0 million Loan of
August 19, 1981; Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closin
Date: June 30, 1985.
About US$10 million of this loan has thus far been committed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 2018-PE:    Power Engineering Project; US$25 million Loan of August 19, 1981;
Effective Date: February 25, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Final design of a number of projects included in this loan, including
the Yuncan hydroelectric project, are now underway.
Loan 2064-PE:    Small-Scale Enterprise Project; US$26 million of June 16, 1982;
Effective Date: August 17. 1982:   Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on December 8, 1981.
Loan 2091-PE:    Eighth Highway Project; US$93 million Loan of June 4, 1982;
Effective Date:                    ; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on February 16, 1982.
Loan 2117-PE:    Oil Refinery Engineering Project; US$5.3 million Loan of
Effective Date:                     ; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This loan was approved by the Executive Directors on March 25, 1982 and
is expected to be signed shortly.  Consultants are now being selected.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
PERU
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country
to prepare project:                    2 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                     Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Commerce with Bank
assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:          September 1981
(d)  Preappraisal of the project:             October 1981
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:          November 1981
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:              July 27, 1982
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:           November 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  As condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would establish
the Public Sector Foundation so as to implement the SES. The
entering of the Foundation into contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with the Government to ensure the
adequate execution of the SES component, would be a condition of
disbursement of this loan component (para. 68).
(ii) A project coordinator and the advisory group, satisfactory to the
Bank and operating under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, would be maintained during the whole period of project
execution (para. 69).
(iii) The consultants would make recommendations as to the appropriate
institutional setting for the program budgeting system at the
central level. The recommendations would be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank, and the agreed institutional changes
would be implemented by June 30, 1983 (para. 71).
(iv) US$2.7 million of the Loan would be onlent by the Government in
dollars to ICSA, CONADE and state-owned companies at the proposed
loan's standard variable interest rate and for five years including
one year of grace. Repayments would be made to a special
Government acount earmarked for support of the Public Sector
Foundation (para. 74).



- 35 -
ANNEX IV
PEFU
TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE PRDJECG 10 STENUIHEN PUBLIC SECIOR MANAGEMENT
PRaJECT OIGANIZATION
Vice-Minister
of Finance
Pro e               |  Advisory|
-     -     -   -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -_,      - - - -        
I Central Gjvernment Part                               i Parastatal Part
NYSC
Vice-Ministry                                             ODE
of Finanoe
IINVERSLIOES      Individual
,   _                                   I    C~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~OFILE  State-Owned
]                                       :_   ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~(ICSA)  Canparnies
DGPP           INAP       Executives      ESAN,         DGAE
MA        (Compensation   Fouidation    Uni del         DaI
MIC           System)      (Senior       Pacifico,      DGCP
ME                         Executive       BCR          BCR
MS                        Service and  (Ttaining)   (Magement
Cbop Pop                    Recruitment)                 Support
(Prcgram                                                 Studies)
Budgeting)
BCR     =  Central Bank
Coop Pop =  Cooperacion Popular
DGAE    =  Directorate of Econanic Affairs within MEFC
DGCP    = Directorate of Public Credit within  YEFC
DGI     =  Directorate of Investment within MEC
DGPP    = Directorate of Budget within MEFC
Mk      = Ministry of Agriculture
ME      = Ministry of Education
MEFC    = Ministry of Economy, Finance and Canmerce
NS      = Ministry of Health
mm      =  Ministry of Transport and Canmunications



- 36 -
ANNEX V
PERU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO STRENGTIIEN PUB.IC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
COST - ESTIMAT.
Unit Cost                  Total Cost            IBRD
Staff-Months            (USS tbousand)               (USs million)         Financing
COMPONENTS                   Foreign   Local       Foreign-/  Locald/  Foreign   Local         Total    (US$ million)
(1)  Progran and Budgeting
System (including
project coordinator)           125      1,425       16.8       4.0         1.7       6.1       7.8         2.1
(2)  Compensation System
and SES                         65        165       10.2       4.0         0.6       0.8        1.4         0.7
(3)  Technical Assistance in
Key Policy Areas (incl.
office equipment of
US$100,000)                    140        200       12.2       4.0         1.3       1.3        2.6         1.8
(4)  Institutional Strengthening
of Inversiones COFIDE
(incl. computer soft-
ware of US$80,000)              30         40       15.1       4.0         0.4       0.3        0.7         0.5
(5)  Assistance to Critical
Companies to be Retained
in State-Ownership             124        288       17.7       4.0         1.8       1.6        3.4         2.2
(6)  Training in Public Sector
Management                                                                 0.8       0.3        1.1         0.8
Base Cost                      484      2,118       16.3       4.0         6.5      10.4       17.0         8.1
Contingencies                                                              0.7       1.0        1.7
Price Escalation 13.5%                                                     0.9       1.4        2.3
Total Cost                                                                 8.2      12.8       21.0        10.0
1/ Including travel and subsistence.
2/ Including support staff and logistical support for foreign consultants.



ANNEX VI
- 37 -                       Page 1 of 10
PERU
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT TO STRENGTHEN
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
(February 1982)
Terms of Reference for Major Project Components
1.   Design and Implementation of a Program Budgeting System
Background
Peru introduced program budgeting in the mid-1960s and gradually
expanded its application throughout the Central Government agencies. From
its beginning, the system had serious shortcomings which prevented it from
becoming a useful management tool to achieve policy goals and control Govern-
ment expenditures. Planning and budgeting was not sufficiently integrated,
and the analytical input was deficient and did not allow the translation of
policy goals into meaningful operational targets which could be monitored.
At present, the Government is facing considerable fiscal con-
straints and is embarking on a financial program which would allow to keep
public finances and the country's balance of payments manageable. An
important element in this effort is the strengthening of public sector
management, inter alia, through improved budget control in line with the
Government's development priorities. While the Government already started a
thorough review of the 1982 budget to accommodate the country's development
needs within the limitations of available resources, a rational programming
and budgeting process has to be institutionalized for the future which would
allow the Government to manage its resources in line with its macroeconomic
and sector priorities.
Objectives of external assistance
In an effort to improve its management system, the Government
intends to implement a program budgeting system at the level of the Central
Budget Office and in key Sector Agencies. The system would have to be
adapted to the Peruvian reality to become fully operational and achieve its
main purpose, which is to allocate the Government's resources in line with
its development priorities and to adequately monitor and control this
process.  The external assistance solicited herewith would have to:
(i) help define an appropriate institutional framework for the program
budgeting system;
(ii) implement an adequate programming and budgeting system while
preparing the 1983 budget;
(iii) set up a computerized information and monitoring system to support
the budget preparation, execution, and control process;



- 38 -                     ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 10
(iv) train Peruvian staff in charge of programming and budgeting at both
the central and agency level and provide general guidance during
the year following the implementation of the new program budgeting
system.
Specific tasks
Under the general supervision of the Vice-Minister of Finance and
directly reporting to the Director General of the Budget (who will be
assisted by an advisor not to be provided by the consulting firm), the
consultants will perform the following specific tasks:
(i) design--within the first month of the assignment--of an appropriate
institutional framework for the su-cessful implementation and
operation of a program budgeting system. The framework should
provide flexibility for adjustments to changing needs and would be
the basis for a general budget law;
(ii) start of implementation of a new program budget based process along
with preparation of 1983 budget both at the central level (within
the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce - MEFC) and at the
level of key sector agencies (Ministries of Transport, Agriculture,
Education, Health, and Cooperation Popular) (within the legal
timeframe for budget preparation by the end of August 1983). This
task would require the following:
At the level of MEFC
--   guidance and coordination for the preparation of a normative
macro-economic and sector framework including overall resource
availabilities and operationalization of macro and sector
policy goals;
--   guidance for the preparation of concrete budget guidelines for
all sectors including budget ceilings (alternative levels to
reveal agencies' priorities);
At the level of the five key sector agencies
--   guidance for the preparation of current and capital budgets
within alternative spending ceilings;
--   guidance for the operationalization of sector policy goals in
form of quantitative targets against which sector performance
can be monitored;
-    guidance for the analytical justification of budget requests;
(iii) implementation of a computerized information system to facilitate
the budgeting process and the financial and physical mDnitoring of
budget execution. The system will have to be adapted to the
Peruvian reality and be sufficiently flexible to accomodate more
complete and complex information as the program budgeting system
progresses. Initially the information requirements would have to
be as modest as possible to provide for expeditious reporting and
to allow close monitoring;



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 10
(iv)  training of Peruvian staff in programming and budgeting techniques
through continuous guidance in day-to-day operations and occasional
seminars and workshops. The objective of the training is to enable
Peruvian staff to prepare the 1984 budget as well as to execute and
monitor the 1983 budget with only minor, sporadic guidance during
key events from external advisors. Training (by senior advisors)
should also be extended to the members of the Joint Budget
Commission of the Peruvian Parliament to facilitate the dialogue
between the Executive and Legislative Branches;
(v) guidance mentioned under (iv) as needed during 1983 when preparing
the 1984 budget and executing the 1983 budget.
Logistics, timing and manpower
The consultants will work as advisors in MEFC and the sector agencies
previously mentioned. Formal report writing will be kept to a minimum, and
most of the services will be provided in the form of accompanying advice and
training. Secretarial and other support staff will be provided as needed by
the Government.
Most of the assistance would be required between April 1982 (when the
preparation of the 1983 budget will be initiated) and January/February 1983
(when the approved 1983 budget will have to be translated into operational
budgets at the sector level, and the final information on the execution of
the 1982 budget will have to be processed). Some general assistance will be
required throughout 1983.
It is estimated that a total of about two staff-months would have to be
allocated to task (i), about 80 staff-months to tasks (ii) and (iv), about 25
staff-months to task (iii) and about 12 staff-months to task (v).
2.   Design and Implementation of a Senior Executive Service (SES)
Recruitment of Managerial Staff - Terms of Reference
Background
Peru's civil service was established in its present form in 1950. It
has developed into a complex system with some 350,000 employees, a large
number of regulations, and an exceedingly complicated personnel structure and
compensation system consisting of an excessive number of hierarchical layers,
career streams, and a large number of pay components. During the recent
past, when Peru experienced considerable economic and fiscal strain, civil
service compensation lagged substantially behind inflation, and real salaries
were eroded. The erosion was particularly marked at the higher pay levels in
spite of the recently introduced supergrade structure for managerial
positions. With a maximum of about US$1,200 per month, Government
compensation is clearly out of line with the private sector, and the
resulting loss of managerial talent has had negative effects on the quality
of administration throughout the public sector.



ANNEX VI
- 40 -                     Page 4 of 10
To overcome the most acute problems the Government appointed a limited
number of managers to key positions at close to market salaries with funding
provided by public sector agencies that are not subject to the limitations of
the civil service salary scale. This solution, however, is inorganic,
partial and uneven.
At present, the Government is embarking on a financial program aimed at
impr^ving public finances and the country's balance of payments. An
important element in this effort is the strengthening of public sector
management through inter alia, the implementation of an improved personnel
structure and compensation system to attract and retain adequate managerial
talent.
Objectives of external assistance
The requested external technical assistance should help the Peruvian
Government to design and implement a personnel structure and compensation
system for management positions within the Central Government and its
dependencies which would allow them to (i) attract and retain qualified
managers at senior levels; (ii) provide incentives to senior managers to
perform in line with the government's program objectives; and (iii) reward
and promote managers based on an evaluation of their performance. Moreover,
assistance is requested for setting up and operating a recruitment system for
managers throughout the public sector (including State-owned enterprise-)
based on appropriate selection criteria.
While the compensation system should be compatible with the general
principles of civil service compensation, the Government plans to establish a
Senior Executives Service (SES) as an independent subsystem which will be
administered outside the civil service through the newly established and
autonomous Executives Foundation. By operating the SES outside the civil
service, it will not be subject to the limitations of the civil service pay-
scale. However, it would be highly desirable in the longer run to integrate
the SES as a supergrade structure with particular features into the overall
compensation system of the civil service so as to make it part of the overall
personnel structure and career path of the Government.
Specific tasks
The consultants will work under the general supervision of the
Vice-Minister of Finance and in close coordination with the Director General
of INAP--the National Institute of Public Administration, which--in a
parallel effort--is working on a review and homologation of the civil service
compensation system. They will perform the following specific tasks:
(i) design and implement a SES as a personnel structure and
compensation system separate from, yet compatible with, the civil
service system;
(ii) build up a minimum administrative capacity at the Executives
Foundation to operate the SES effectively;



ANNEX VI
-41-                             Page 5 of 10
(iii)  determine the appropriate scope of the SES, i.e. sectors and
institutions as well as number of hierarchical levels to be
included, balancing management needs with fiscal constraints;
(iv)  design the appropriate structural features for the SES, including
entry criteria for both incumbents and people outside the public
sector, as well as a compensation package commensurate with private
sector compensations; in this context, consideration should be
given to the feasibility of a young professional entry level into
the SES for promising university graduates;
(v)  design a performance evaluation system based on specific and
objective performance criteria as well as a corresponding system of
merit pay increases, promotions and appeals.
In addition to the above tasks, the consultants would--over a
period of at least two years--assist in the recruitment of managers both for
the Central Government's SES and for other management positions in the public
sector. They would also train Peruvian staff in personnel administration and
provide the necessary institutional support for the newly established
Executives Foundation to ensure that the SES would be effectively operated.
Logistics, timing and manpower
The consultants will work as advisors in the Ministry of Economy,
Finance, and Commerce and in close coordination with the staff of the
Executives Foundation and INAP. The design of the SES would have to be fully
documented in form of a manual, with particular emphasis on the evaluation
procedures. Secretarial and support staff will be provided as needed by the
Government.
With regard to private sector compensation, Price Waterhouse con-
ducts regular surveys of compensations in key management and non-management
positions in Peru's private sector. The consultants would have to reach an
agreement with Price Waterhouse to have access to this information.
Most of the assistance would be required during the second half of
1982 while the training could go into 1983 and recruitment assistance would
be considered through 1984.
It is estimated that a total of about 25 staff-months would be
allocated to tasks (i)-(v), some five staff-months to training through
workshops and seminars, another five staff-months to accompany the actual
implementation of the SES, and about two staff-years to assistance in
recruitment.
3.   Strengthening of Debt Management
Terms of Reference
Background
During the recent past, Peru has incurred a large external debt, the
servicing of which constitutes a heavy burden for the country's balance of
payments. Most of the debt is long term and public or publicly guaranteed,



A_NTNEX VI
- 42 -                        7Page 6 of 10
but private and short-term debt are also important.  At present, several
control mechanisms are in place to keep the public and publicly guranteed
long-term debt manageable. Private and short-term debt are handly monitored
at all. Several institutions are involved in the control of public and
publicly guaranteed debt at the level of both the establishment of priorities
and overall ceilings for debt contraction and the review of individual loan
agreements.  The main responsibilities are with the Directorate General for
Public Credit (DGCP) and the Interagency Debt Committee.  The present system
suffers from several shortcomings, in particular (i) fragmented
responsibilities; (ii) inadequate control of short-term and domestic public
credit which often require subsequent consolidation in the form of long-tern
external loans; (iii) incomplete and late reporting; (iv) inadequate
monitoring of current transactions; and (v) insufficient knowledge of private
sector external indebtedness.
Objectives of External Assistance
The Government is embarking on a major project to strengthen
management throughout the public sector. One of the key elements is the
implementation of a program budgeting system and improved monitoring of
Government spending. As part of this overall effort management of the
country's external debt will also be strengthened. Improved debt management
essentially depends on the achievement of the following objectives:
(i) the establishment of an adequate and responsive institutional
setting for the effective control of all transactions that involve
actual or potential obligations of the country with respect to the
rest of the world;
(ii) the establishment of an effective and computerized debt reporting
and monitoring system; and
(iii)  the training of staff in charge of managing and monitoring external
debt.
Specific tasks
Under the general supervision of the Vice-Minister of Finance and
directly reporting to the Director General of Public Credit, Lhe consultants
will perform the following specific tasks:
(i) assess the present debt management and reporting system including
the specific responsibilities of DGCP, Debt Committee, Central
Reserve Bank, Banco de La Nacion, and COFIDE;
(ii)  design an optimum institutional setting to achieve full control of
all public sector indebtedness (both long and short tern);
(iii)  design and implementation of an effective reporting, monitorIng and
projection system to cover all external debt transactions with
adequate classification, both at the central level (DGCP) and at
the level of individual agencies (particularly state-owned
enterprises and financial institutions);



- 43 -                       ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 10
(iv) design a system that would allow effective statistical coverage of
private sector external debt transactions;
(v) computerization of the debt reporting and monitoring system to
provide for timely information to management;
(vi) provide the basis for meaningful analysis of debt information,
particularly in view of the public sector's and country's ability
to pay; and
(vii) on-the-job training of DGCP staff and training through workshops
and seminars to allow it to operate the new systems effectively.
Logistics, timing and manpower
The consultants will work as advisors in the Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Commerce, and--as needed--with other public sector agencies.
Reporting will include a full description of institutional responsibilities,
flow of information and full documentation of the computer software. Ideally
all reporting should be summarized in an external debt manual for future
guidance and reference. Secretarial and other support staff will be provided
by the Government as needed. It is estimated that the tasks can be executed
within about six months and that a total of about 20 staff-months would be
required (including training of Peruvian staff).
4.   Review of tax incentive system
Terms of reference
Background
As in many other countries, tax incentives for a number of
different purposes have been introduced in Peru over time without following a
coherent design pattern.  The rather inorganic growth has resulted in a tax
incentive system which is (i) fisically enerous; (ii) difficult to
administer; and (iii) not very effective with regard to the achievement of
overall policy goals. Because of its complexity the incidence of the system
is not transparent and side effects on employment, income distribution, etc.
are hardly known.
Objective of the study
The 1982 budget law gave a mandate to the Government to reform and
streamline the existing system of tax incentives. To pursue this general
goal, the study should:
(i) provide a clear and comprehensive picture of the existing tax
incentive system with an assessment of its costs and benefits;
(ii) based on the Government's macro and sector policy goals, design
alternative systems which are easy to administer and cost-
effective; and



ANNEX VI
- 44 -                        Page 8 of 10
(iii) design a monitoring system to allow the continuous evaluation of
the system's costs and benefits and to provide a basis for the
continuous adaptation of system to changing realities and policy
goals.
Specific tasks
Under the general supervision of the Vice-Minister of Economy and
directly reporting to the Director General of Taxation, the external advisors
would work, together with an appropriately staffed Peruvian team to:
(i) draw up a full inventory of all existing tax incentives with a
complete description of underlying policy goals and of the
mechanisms of operations;
(ii) analyze the system of underlying policy goals with regard to their
mutual compatibility;
(iii) assess the cost and benefits of the existing tax incentives system
based on an analysis of tax incidence;
(iv) based on a consistent system of policy goals (which would have to
be checked with all relevant policy makers), design alternative
systems of tax incentives. The most important design criteria
would be the following:
--   cost effectiveness with regard to the achievement of policy
goals taking side effects on employment, income distribution,
and international transfers (compatibility of different tax
systems) explicitly into account;
--   easiness of administration and safeguards against abuse;
--   compatibility with obligations under international agreements;
(v) design a computerized information system that allows close
monitoring of any new system. The system would have to provide
information on the fiscal costs (revenues foregone or direct
expenditures) of the incentives and on the net benefits (in terms
of the incentivated actions' degree of achieving the Government's
multiple policy goals).  The system should be adapted to the
Peruvian reality and be flexible to accomodate more complete and
complex information as experience grows. Initially the information
requirements would have to be as modest as possible to provide for
expeditious reporting and allow close monitoring.
Reporting
The consultants would have to prepare interim reports on tasks (i)
to (iii), as well as on task (iv) and (v) and a full report with all findings
and recommendations. The recommendations resulting from the performace of
task (iv) would constitute the basis for new legislation. Some assistance
would, therefore, be required in translating the recommendations into draft
legislation.



ANNEX VI
- 45-                            Page 9 of 10
Logistics, timeframe, and manpower
The study should start as soon as possible but not later than
_   The final report should be ready within six months after initiating
the study.
The external consultants will be supported by a team of qualified
Peruvian professionals and support staff. Access to all necessary and
relevant information will be provided by the Government including support for
the contacts in the private sector.
The external consultants should have strong microeconomic
backgrounds and previous experience in the assessment and design of tax
incentive systems. Some support by a systems specialist may also be required
for the setting up of the computerized monitoring system.
5.   Institutional Strengthening of INVERSIONES COFIDE
Terms of Reference
Background
INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A. (ICSA) was established by Legislative
Decree No. 206 of June 12, 1981 as State-owned corporation under private
commercial law. Its fundamental goal is to contribute to the country's
development through equity participation in companies and thus promote
productive capital formation. ICSA is an offspring of COFIDE, the
State-owned Development Finance Corporation. COFIDE in its original form
(prior to Decree 206) performed the role of a development bank both through
lending and equity participation. All of COFIDE's equity holdings were
transferred to ICSA, thus separating the two functions. ICSA now holds the
State's share in 30 companies and may--in due time-- take over all State
shares in any company. Both COFIDE and ICSA are fully-owned subsidiaries of
CONADE, the National Development Corporation.
ICSA is a recently created institution with still very limited
administrative capacity and human resources. To face its responsibility as a
holding company of State-owned enterprises it will need considerable
expansion and strengthening. This would apply even more if its
responsibilities were rapidly expanded to cover the whole parastatal sector,
including large and complex operations like PETROPERU, SIDERPERU or
ELECTROPERU.
Objectives of external assistance
The requested external technical assistance should help (i) to
define ICSA's role within the framework of the State entrepreneurial
activity, (ii) to develop ICSA into a viable institution capable of assuming
the role of a holding company for State-owned enterprises and providing
guidance to these enterprises as well as effectively controlling their
operations, and (iii) to build up ICSA's role in the preparation and
promotion of the sale of certain State-owned enterprises. In accordance with
the Government's new approach to State-entrepreneurial activity, these



ANNEX VI
- 46 -                        Page 10 of 10
companies would be granted as much autonomy as possible within the overall
framework of Government's economic and sector policies and priorities and
within a set of agreed performance targets. ICSA would, therefore, have to
build a capacity to monitor and evaluate the enterprises' performance within
this framework.
Specific tasks
Under the general supervision of the President of CONADE, and
closely working with the General Manager of ICSA, the consultants will
perform the following tasks:
(i) define ICSA's role in operational terms within the legal framework
of the State's entrepreneurial activities;
(ii) design and implement an adequate organization structure to allow
ICSA to cope effectively with its role as holding company for
State-owned enterprises, as well as to prepare and to promote the
sale of selected companies;
(iii) design and implement a system for managing the companies held by
ICSA by objectives (within the framework of the Government's
economic and sector policies);
(iv) design and implement a computerized management information and
monitoring system in line with management by objectives and assist
the companies in improving their information systems so as to
provide ICSA with adequate information;
(v) train ICSA staff to allow them to manage companies effectively in
line with Government objectives and to make effective use of the
computerized monitoring system; and
(vi)  conduct a survey of about        State-owned  enterprises to identify
their main weaknesses. The results of the survey would help to
define specific needs for in-depth assistance to a number of
individual enterprises--a task that would be performed under
separate contracts.
To the extent possible, the management information and monitoring
system should be designed so as to allow the use of standard computer soft-
ware packages.
Logistics, timing and manpower
The consultants will work as advisors in CONADE in close coordina-
tion with staff of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce, other
ministries and individual companies as appropriate. The management informa-
tion and monitoring system would have to be fully documented. Otherwise,
formal report writing will be kept to a minimum. Secretarial and support
staff will be provided as needed by CONADE.
Most of the assistance would be required during the second half of
1982 while some training, and possibly the company survey, could be performed
in 1983. It is estimated that a total of about 20 staff-months would be
needed for tasks (i)-(v) and an additional ten staff-months for task (vi).



