LOAN NUMBER 2204 FE
Project Agreement
(Public Sector Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
and
CORPORACION NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
and
INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A.
Dated December 16, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2204 FE
PROJECT AMREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CORPORACION NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO S.A. (hereinafter
called CONADE) and INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A. (hereinafter called
ICSA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Peru (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million two
hundred thousand dollars ($10,200,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
CONADE and ICSA agree to undertake severally such obligations
toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available severally to CONADE and
ICSA on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement
and hereinafter; and
WHEREAS CONADE and ICSA, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed
to undertake severally the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "ICSA Loan" means a loan, denominated and repayable in
dollars, made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the
proceeds of the Loan to ICSA for an ICSA project, pursuant to
Sections 3.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement and 2.01 (b) of this
Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(b)  "ICSA project" means a project to be included in Part B
of the Project and carried out by ICSA utilizing the proceeds of
an ICSA Loan, and which: (A) consists in the provisions of tech-
nical assistance services to, or acquisition of computer software
for, ICSA; and (B) is not a Sub-project, as the term is defined
in paragraph (g) below;
(c)  "Approved ICSA project" means an ICSA project, as so
defined, which has been approved by the Bank pursuant to Section
2.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)  "Subsidiary  Loan"   means  a   loan,  denominated   and
repayable in dollars, made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan to CONADE solely for purposes of financing a Sub-loan,
pursuant to Sections 3.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement and 3.01 (b)
of this Agreement;
(e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan, denominated and repayable in
dollars, made or proposed to be made by CONADE out of the
proceeds of a Subsidiary Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub project;
(f)  "Approved Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which has been approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement;
(g)  "Sub-project" means a project to be included in Part C
of the Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the
proceeds of an Approved Sub-loan, and which consists in the
provision of long-term or short-term technical assistance to such
Beneficiary; and
(h) "Beneficiary" means any corporation which is either:
(A) a private or public law corporation wholly owned by the Bor-
rower, other than those from time to time excluded from access to
the proceeds of the Loan by agreement between the Borrower and
the Bank, or (B) a mixed economy company, as defined by Article 9
of the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 216, other than those
which ICSA intends to wind-up or the stock shares of which ICSA
intends to dispose of.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part B the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ICSA shall carry out Part B of the Pro-
ject, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due


﻿-3-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and management practices.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) above, ICSA shall borrow
from the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement under the applicable terms and
conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement which are hereby acknowledged by ICSA and accepted, for
purposes of this Agreement, with the same force and effect as if
they were fully set forth herein;
(c) ICSA shall present to the Bank each ICSA project for
approval before taking any action for the carrying out of such
ICSA project.   When presenting an ICSA project to the Bank for
approval, ICSA shall flirnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the
ICSA project and of the expenditures proposed to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) evidence of the approval of the
ICSA project by the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Commerce; and (iii) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(d) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and ICSA shall other-
wise agree, applications made pursuant to the provisions of para-
graph (c) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or
before December 31, 1984.
(e) ICSA shall carry on its operations, including each
Approved ICSA project, and conduct its affairs in accordance with
sound administrative, financial and business management practices
and with the ICSA Charter, and under the supervision of qualified
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ICSA in the carrying out of
Approved ICSA projects, ICSA shall employ, unless not required by
the ICSA project in question, consultants whose selection, quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 and in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the goods required for any Approved ICSA project and


﻿to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be awarded
to a supplier thereof after obtaining price quotations from such
supplier and from not less than two other suppliers.
Section 2.04. (a) ICSA undertakes to insure, or make adeq-
uate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Bor-
rower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ICSA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) ICSA shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ICSA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for Part B of
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) ICSA: (i) shall maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part B of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in such Part of the Project;
(ii) shall ena'ble the Bank's representatives to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular
intervals all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning Part B of the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by ICSA of any contract for goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
it by the Borrower, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of Part B of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ICSA


﻿- 5 -
and the Bank, ICSA shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution of Part B of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by ICSA and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Loan.
(e) ICSA shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of ICSA and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. (a) ICSA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) ICSA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by ICSA of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of Part C of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) CONADE shall carry out Part C of the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and management practices.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) above CONADE shall make
Approved Sub-loans and, in order to finance such Sub-loans,
borrow from the Borrower the proceeds of the Loan allocated from
time to time to Category (4) of the table set forth in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement under the terms and
conditions set forth in paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement which are hereby acknowledged by CONADE and accepted,
for purposes of this Agreement, with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however, that
should the principal of any Approved Sub-loan or portion thereof
be repaid to CONADE by the Beneficiary in question in advance of
the corresponding maturity or maturities, CONADE shall promptly
repay the Borrower, also in advance of the scheduled maturity,
the corresponding principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan under
which such Sub-loan was financed.


﻿-6-
(c) CONADE shall present each Sub-loan to the Bank for
approval. When presenting a Sub-loan to the Bank for approval,
CONADE shall furnish to the Bank an application in form satisfac-
tory to the Bank, together with (i) a description of the Benefi-
ciary and of the Sub-project, including the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization thereof; (iii) evidence of approval of the Sub-
project by the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, Finance and
Commerce; and (iv) such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(d) Except as the Borrower, the Bank and CONADE shall
otherwise agree, applications made pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on
or before December 31, 1984.
Section 3.02. In order to assist each Beneficiary in the
carrying out of any Sub-project being carried out by such
Beneficiary and financed out of the proceeds of the Approved Sub-
loan, CONADE shall cause such Beneficiary to employ consultants
whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank in accordance with the principles and procedures
described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 and the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. CONADE shall carry out Part C of the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and
personnel, and in accordance with the CONADE Charter.
Section 3.04. (a) CONADE undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, any Approved Sub-loan will be made on
terms whereby CONADE shall obtain, by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including,
in the case of any such Sub-loan, the right of CONADE to: (i)
request payments of interest and other charges on, and repayments
of principal of, the Sub-loan in such amounts and with such
frequency as shall coincide with the payment of interest and
other charges on, and repayments of principal of the Subsidiary
Loan under which the Sub-loan in question is being financed; (ii)


﻿- 7 -
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Sub-Project
in question with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (iii) require that: (1) the ser-
vices to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
CONADE by the Borrower shall be procured at a reasonable price
and in accordance with Section 3.02 of this Agreement, and (2)
such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Sub-Project in question; (iv) inspect, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,
the sites and works included in the Sub-Project in question, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (v)
require that: (1) the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and
in such amounts, a. shall be consistent with sound business
practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the rendering of
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Beneficiary;(vi) obtain all such information as the Bank or
CONADE shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the
Sub-Project; and (vii) suspend or terminate the right of the
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Loan relent to
CONADE by the Borrower upon failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its contract with CONADE.
(b)   CONADE shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Beneficiary in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the  Bank,   the  Borrower  and  CONADE,  (ii)  comply  with   its
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) CONADE shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Beneficiaries, the Sub-Projects, the
Approved Sub-loans, and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from the foregoing.
(b)  Upon the award by any Beneficiary of any contract for
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of
the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.


﻿- 8 -
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CONADE and
the Bank, CONADE shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of Part C of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance
by CONADE and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement, the performance of each Beneficiary in the
carrying out of the Sub-project or Sub-projects being financed
under the Approved Sub-loans made to such Beneficiary and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants of ICSA
Section 4.01. ICSA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial conditions,
including without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on account of ICSA projects.
Section 4.02. ICSA shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts of ICSA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants of CONADE
Section 5.01. (a) CONADE shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts


﻿- 9 -
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on account of Approved Sub-loans.
(b) CONADE shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on account
of Approved Sub-loans and shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine such records.
Section 5.02. CONADE shall:
(a) have the accounts referred to in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of such accounts for such year as so
audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
have been used by the Beneficiaries for the purpose for which
they were provided; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, records and expenditures, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ICSA and of CONADE thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with


﻿- 10 -
its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ICSA and CONADE
thereof.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ICSA:
Inversiones COFIDE S.A.
Avda. Garcilaso de la Vega
Lima, Peru
Telex:
201 62-PE


﻿- 11 -
For CONADE:
Corporacion Nacional de
Desarrollo S.A
Avda. Garcilaso de la Vega
Lima, Peru
Telex:
25356-PE
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ICSA, or by ICSA on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by ICSA's
General Manager or such other person or persons as such General
Manager shall designate in writing, and ICSA shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CONADE, or by CONADE on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
CONADE's General Manager or such other person or persons as such
General Manager shall designate in writing, and CONADE shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ardito Barletta
Authorized Representative
CORPORACION NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO S.A.
By Is/ Alfonso Rivero
Authorized Representative
INVERSIONES COFIDE S.A.
By /s/ Alfonso Rivero
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.   Extended lists (concurso abierto de meritos) will not be
used for inviting proposals from consultants or experts whose
services are to be employed pursuant to Sections 2.02 and 3.02 of
this Agreement.
2.   Such consultants or experts shall be selected after inviting
proposals from a short list of firms or individuals. Such short
list will be sent to the Bank for approval and the invitations to
be issued will, in each case, set forth the criteria to be taken
into account for the selection of the individual or firm to which
the contract will be awarded. Such criteria will be determined
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
and will take price into account in accordance with methods and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, the
Bank may under certain circumstances, as described in the
Guidelines referred to in Sections 2.02 and 3.02 of this
Agreement, sympathetically consider the possibility of asking
proposals to a single firm or individual.


