Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15356
IMPLEHMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2573-TUN)
FEBRUARY 16, 1996
Natural Resources and Environment Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (D)
1986: D1.00 = US$1.33
1986: US$1.00 = DO.75
1995: US$1.00 = Dl.08
GOVERNMENT OF TUNISIA FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC         Association of Common Interest
(Association d'interet collectif), WUA
ASIL        Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (PISA)
(Pret d'investissement au secteur agricole)
BNT         National Bank of Tunisia
(Banque nationale de Tunisie)
CNI         National Computer Center
(Centre national informatique)
CREGR       Research and Experimentation Centre of the Rural Constrction Department
(Centre de recherche et d'experimentation du genie rural)
CRDA        Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Comrnissariat regional de developpement agricole)
CTV         Local Extension Unit
(Cellule territoriale de vulgarisation)
DAF         Department of Administrative and Financial Affairs
(Direction administrative et financi6re)
DCOMVPI  Department of Coordination of Irrigation Development Offices (Direction de la
coordination des offices de mise en valeur des p6rimetres irrigues)
DEGTH       Departnent of Studies and Large Hydraulic Works
(Direction des etudes et grands travaux hydrauliques)
DGR         Department of Rural Engineering
(Direction du genie rural)
DPSAE       Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analysis
(Direction de la planification, des statistiques et des analyses economiques)
DRE         Department of Water Resources
(Direction de ressources en eau)
ECE         Economic Commission for Europe
FOSDA       Agricultural Development Fund
(Fonds sp&cial de d6veloppement agricole)
f!Tu        f--- { rf WT,,-A"lir Tynterest
(Groupement d'interet hydraulique)
GTZ         Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HEM         Hydro/Electromechanical
(Hydro/electromecanique)
INRAT       National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut national de recherche agronomique tunisien)
LMV         Lower Medjerda Valley
(Vallee de la Basse Medjerda)
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministere de l'agriculture)
MOF         Ministry of Finance
(Ministere des finances)
OMV         Development Offices
(Offices de mise en valeur)
OMVVM       Development Office of the Medjerda Valley
(Office de mise en valeur de la vallee de la Medjerda)
PISA        Pret d'investissement au secteur agricole (ASIL)
PPI         Public Irrigation Perimeters
(Perimetres publics irrigues)
SONAM       National Farm Mechanization Company
(Socidtd nationale de motoculture)
SONEDE    National Society for Water Supply
(Socidtd nationale d'exploitation et de distribution des eaux)
STEG        Tunisian Electricity and Gas Company
(Societe tunisienne d'6lectricit6 et du gaz)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LN. 2573-TUN)
Table of Contents
Preface ..................................................   i
Evaluation Summary   .......................................... ii
PART I: Project Implementation Assessment  ..........................   1
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives  .........................    1
B. Achievement of Objectives  .................................   2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project  ...........................   4
D. Project Sustainability   ....................................    7
E. Bank Performance  ......................................    8
F. Borrower Performance   ...................................   9
G. Assessment of Outcome ...................................  13
H. Future Operation  .......................................   14
1.  Key Lessons Learned  ....................................  15
PART II:       Statistical Tables  ...................................   16
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments ............................... 16
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits . ............................ 18
Table 3:       Project Timetable   ..................................   19
Table 4.       Cumulative Loan Disbursement .........                 .................  19
Table 5:   Project Achievements ................................. 20
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation  .......             ................  22
Table 7a:      Studies Included in the Project ..........             .................  22
Table 7b.      Inventory of Studies Undertaken   ........              .................  23
Table 8a.      Project Costs  ...................................    24
Table 8b.      Project Financing ...................................  25
Table 9.       Economic Costs and Benefits  ..........                .................  25
Table 10.      Status of Legal Covenants  .        ............................  26
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .....                ...........  29
Table 12.      Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  ..........              .................  29
Table 13.      Bank Resources: Missions .          ............................  30
APPENDIX  1 - Financial and Economic Analysis ......                    .................  32
Appendix Table 1 .....................................                                            36
Appendix Table 2 ...................................... 37
Appendix Table 3 ...................................... 38
Appendix Table 4 ...................................... 39
Appendix Table 5 ...................................... 41
APPENDIX 2 - Borrower's Project Evaluation  .......                   ..................  43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2573-TUN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Irrigation Management
Improvement Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 2573-TUN in the amount of US$ 22 million
was approved on June 6, 1985, and made effective on July 28, 1986.
The loan was closed on 30 June, 1995 (originally planned June 30, 1992, in the SAR). A
sum of US$ 5 million was cancelled on June 28, 1990, upon Government request. Final
disbursement was concluded on August 8, 1995, leaving no remaining balance.
The draft ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission, "on the basis of initial discussions in
Washington with Mr. C. Gois, MN1NE Task Manager, and with Tunisian authorities during a
mission 4-15 September 1995. The report was finalized by Mr. Stephen Mink, Natural
Resources and Environment Division of the Middle East and North Africa Region, and reviewed
by Mr. Costa, Project Advisor, MN1.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission (23-30
October 1994). It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by drafting its own Completion Report (August 1995), commenting on
the draft ICR and also by arranging all field visits and discussions with central and regional
officers of the various agencies involved in the project implementation, and providing available
data on project performance.
"  An irrigation engineer and an economist.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1. Since 1967, the Bank has been closely associated with agriculture development in
Tunisia. The irrigation sub-sector benefitted from five loans in the last 15 years: the
Medjerdah/Nebhana Project (LN 2157-TUN), the Technical Assistance Loan for irrigation
studies (LN 2197-TUN), the Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (LN 2234-TUN), the Gabes
Irrigation Project (LN 2605-TUN) and the present project. In addition, an irrigation and
water-use efficiency component is included in the on-going Agricultural Sector Investment
Loan (LN 3661-TUN; US$ 120 million) approved in 1994 and expected to close by June
1999.
Project Objectives
2. The general objectives and their level of achievement (main report, para. 5) are as
follows:
(a)      improving OMVs' capabilities to provide increased water delivery, in a timely
and cost-effective manner, and to maintain existing irrigation systems:
substantial achievement;
(b)      introducing pricing and cost recovery policies for OMVs' services, in
particular irrigation water, aimed at: (i) a more rational use of available
resources; (ii) increased competition from the private and cooperative sectors;
and (iii) greater financial autonomy of OMVs: substantial achievement, except
the financial OMV autonomy due to the dispersion of OMV structures into the
CRDA;
(c)      setting up an institutional framework providing for: (i) improved management
efficiency and greater accountability for OMVs; and (ii) strengthened planning
and control capabilities for Government services in charge of monitoring
OMVs' operations: negligible achievement due to the dispersion of OMV
structures into the CRDA; and
(d)      increasing the role and responsibilities of Water User Associations in the O&M
irrigation systems: partial achievement.
(ii)



3. The project components (para. 6) included:
(a)      an Investment Component aimed at strengthening OMVs' O&M capabilities
including, the purchase of heavy equipment and vehicles for O&M activities,
the rehabilitation of the hydro- and electro-mechanical (HEM) equipment, the
establishment of safety stocks of spare parts for HEM equipment and irrigation
networks, the rehabilitation for part of OMVVM's (i) irrigation network
(serving an area of about 1,000 ha); and (ii) drainage network (1,100 km of
ditches and 960 km of drains); and support for the improvement and
maintenance of OMVVM's feeder road system (600 kIn);
(b)      an Institutional/Policy Reform Component aimed at strengthening the
coordination between OMVs and their supervisory Ministries (Agriculture,
Plan, Finance) for the planning and monitoring of their activities,
strengthening the role of Water User Associations (WUAs) in the O&M of
irrigation systems, improving the management of OMVs through the setting-up
of an efficient Management Information System (MIS) and the definition of
improved financial and operating procedures and introducing pricing policies
for OMVs' services, in particular for irrigation water, promoting a more
rational use of existing resources and a greater financial autonomy of OMVs;
(c)      a Technical Assistance, Training and Support Action Component including:
i) technical assistance to OMVs to define improved accounting, financial and
operating procedures, to set up a new MIS and carry out the necessary related
training programs, to prepare detailed terms of reference or engineering design
for proposed project works, and to carry out proposed water management
studies and to the (then) Directorate of Planning and Statistics (DPSAE, now
DGPDIA) to strengthen capabilities to plan and monitor OMVs' activities;
ii) the establishment of a system to monitor water flow in OMVVM's
irrigation network; iii) the creation of a pilot sector of about 500 ha where
OMVVM would test alternative water delivery and management technologies,
and iv) the equipment necessary for the OMV of Gafsa-Jerid to carry out
experiments on water saving technologies and cropping methods; and
(d)      On-Farm Development.
4. The project main changes after appraisal were: i) the substantial modifications of the
institutional/policy reform and technical components due to the reorganization of the Ministry
of Agriculture leading to the merging of the OMV into the CRDA, namely the suppression of
all activities earmarked to improve accounting, financial and operating procedures in the
OMV, in particular the setting-up of Management Information Systems (MIS); ii) the
exclusion of the Medjerdah pilot sector to test management techniques and of the provision of
water saving equipment to the Gafsa-Jerid OMV.
(iii)



Implementation Experience and Results
5. Achieved objectives. The project cannot be considered fully successful as its priority, the
irrigation management of the existing systems, has not been considerably improved. The
project assisted in the rehabilitation of the systems, but the disappearance of the OMVs half
way through project implementation prevented the development of modem management
instruments, such as the MIS. The project would nevertheless be eventually profitable to
agricultural production, because the majority of staff involved in operation of irrigation
perimeters have now taken the measure of the importance of modem management on the
operation as well as on the preventive maintenance aspects.
6. As long as the present policy, to maintain annual irrigation tariff increases so as to
recover the whole of O&M costs, and even part of the initial investment, through water
charges to farmers, continues unabated, the sustainability of the project is guaranteed; in
addition the participation of farmers in O&M activities through Water Users Associations
would also contribute to a sustainable development.
7. Project costs. The project investment cost totalled US$ 30.44 million, compared with
US$ 28.39 million evaluated in the SAR, i.e. a 7% increase (paras. 16-19). The initial loan
amount of US$ 22 million was reduced to US$ 17 million in 1990 upon Government request
that in retrospect was a misjudgement that was too readily accepted by the Bank. The part of
the project cost, outside recurrent costs, expected to be financed by the Government rose
from US $ 6.0 to 10.1, due to the US$ 5 million cancellation, certainly too rapidly
requested. About US$ 3.3 million for technical assistance were granted by the Economic
Commission for Europe.
8. Implementation delays. At appraisal the project was expected to last seven years, from
loan signing (July 1985) to closing (June 1992). At Government request, the closing date was
extended first in 1992 by two years to June 1994, then in Nov 1993 by one extra year to
June 1995; the total implementation period since effectiveness was therefore nine years
(para. 20).
9. Key factors affecting project implementation. The major factors (paras. 9-13) that
affected achievement of the major objectives were: i) absence of Government consensus on
project opportunity before effectiveness; ii) initial procurement problems due to the lack of
experience of local contractors and suppliers; weak project management due to the lack of a
competent project director from 1988 to 1991; iv) considerable reorganization of regional
authorities initially entrusted with project implementation.
10.   Bank performance. The project was particularly thoroughly prepared and appraised.
The single missing aspect was the monitoring/evaluation activities during and more specially
after project execution; both quantifiable performance indicators and agricultural production
records were not identified or maintained (para. 28). The project was adequately supervised
by the same engineer (in average one mission every seven months), but it can be regretted
that no other skill participated to these missions, even during the mid-term review (para. 29).
The working relations were generally excellent between the implementation agencies (OMV,
and then CRDA), the European Community representative and the Bank task manager.
(iv)



11.   Borrower performance. Despite weak project directorship which affected the project
from 1988 to 1991, and dramatic reorganization which substituted administrative structures
(CRDA) to the executing agencies, the project implementation was globally satisfactory.
Table 5 provides a detailed description of the various achievements. It should be emphasized
that the sudden restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture in 1989 disturbed considerably
the project execution. The current institutional organization dealing with public irrigation
(CRDA) is in some ways less suitable and efficient for conducting commercial-type of
operations (such as water delivery) than the organizations (OMV) that were responsible
before the 1989 reorganization.
12.   The implementation of the investment component was very satisfactory (para. 37) and
the provision of technical assistance by ECE was outstanding. The progress of the
institution/policy reform component leaves much to be desired; nevertheless the almost total
recovery of O&M costs by the CRDAs, and the regular progression of water tariffs are two
important project achievements (paras. 38-40).
13.   Project outcome. Summarizing the achievement of objectives detailed in Section B,
the project outcome was globally satisfactory, as most of its major objectives were achieved.
The Department of Rural Engineering and the CRDA's technical divisions have derived
considerable benefits from the technical assistance and training component, entirely funded
by the European Community.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learnt
14.   Main finding. From the project implementation experience the most important finding
is certainly the necessity to provide this type of project from its inception with a
monitoring/evaluation system; the continuing lack of the latter results in the impossibility to
quantify the project results in terms of benefits outcomes and economic viability. The
absence of an indicator for the increase of water efficiency, the ultimate target of the project,
is particularly regrettable.
15.   Future operations. A significant weakness of the appraisal report is the lack of plans
for the project's future operation, which should have been considered thoroughly; indeed the
project is providing the necessary instruments to improve irrigation management, but the
directions for their use were missing. The absence of a sound action plan for future
operation, backed by a solid monitoring/evaluation structure could rapidly lead to a loss of
interest from the project participants. The ICR mission made the following proposals and
recommendations to remedy the situation and secure the project sustainability (paras. 56-58),
but their implementation remains to be assured: i) maintain and if possible strengthen the
Project Management Unit; ii) define optimal maintenance objectives for each type of
infrastructure and short and medium-term action plans for maintenance; and iii) identify and
monitor operation and maintenance indicators, consolidated in an indicator of the increased
water use efficiency, which is the ultimate measure of the project's success. In addition a
detailed monitoring/evaluation system of agricultural returns should be set up by the DGR in
collaboration with CRDA divisions dealing with agricultural production, planning and
economic analysis.
(v)



16.   Key Lessons Learnt. The major lessons learnt during project implementation
(para. 60) are as follows: i) project size should always be in accordance with the absorptive
(institutional/financial) capacity of the executing agency as well as of the ultimate
beneficiaries; ii) when recurrent costs are a substantial part of total project costs, often the
case in irrigation projects, specific commitments for the financing of the former should be
worked out before project start; iv) at appraisal stage, the design of a proper
monitoring/evaluation system should be a critical element of any project, particularly those
which are nation-wide and mainly composed of rehabilitation and/or restructuring activities;
v) the number of actions requested to be reflected in Loan covenants should be limited, and
only priority conditionalities strictly necessary to assure proper implementation of the project
mentioned; and vi) when the institutional arrangements previously agreed upon are
substantially changed during project execution, as the case arose with the reorganization of
the Ministry of Agriculture, the new situation should be formally reviewed and the
appropriate modifications made to the project design and to the Loan Agreement.
(vi)



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LN 2573-TUN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENTIEVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1. The main objectives of the Project were to: (a) increase and ensure the sustainability of
agricultural production within some 105,000 ha of irrigation land in public irrigation
perimeters (PPIs), thereby contributing to Goverrnent's objective of self-sufficiency in food
production; (b) improve the incomes of farmers living in PPIs and create employment
opportunities directly and through forward and backward linkages; (c) aim at eliminating
OMVs' operating deficit, thereby reducing the burden of annual operating subsidies on
Government's budget; and (d) reduce the need to regularly undertake major investments for
the rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems by improving regular maintenance
operations. "
2. The two first objectives were quite ambitious, because some components benefitted only a
limited percentage of farmers exploiting a moderate part of the overall 105,000 hectares. On
the other hand, only a reduced number of the initially foreseen institutional components were
actually carried out. In addition, the real creation of employment opportunities cannot be
ascertained.
3. The aim of eliminating OMVs' deficit was clear, easy to implement and to monitor; the
evaluation of actual O&M expenses would have been possible through the proposed analytic
accounting to be introduced in the OMVs by the project. The merging of OMVs during the
project into the administratively-managed CRDA led to abandonment of the introduction of
this analytic accounting.
4. While qualitatively it appears possible to conclude that the project led to reduced
rehabilitation needs due to improved O&M, the supposed increased infrastructure life time is
almost impossible to assess. An action program for monitoring and evaluation post-project
activities needs to be carried out to provide the required information. The lack of
"The project covered 10 OMV with responsibility for the promotion of agriculture in irrigated areas at the start of the
project: Gabes-Medenine, Gafsa-Jerid, Jendouba, OMIVAK (Kairouan), OMIVAL (Lakhmes), OMVVM, Nabeul,
OMIVAN (Nebhana), Sidi Bouzid and ODTC.
-1 -



monitoring/evaluation activities during implementation is particularly prejudicial to any
assessment, even approximate, of the project benefits and outcomes.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5. The general targets fixed to achieve the above objectives and their level of achievement
are as follows:
(a) improving OMVs' capabilities to provide increased water delivery, in a timely and
cost-effective manner, and to maintain existing irrigation systems: substantial
achievement;
(b) introducing pricing and cost recovery policies for OMVs' services, in particular
irrigation water, aimed at: (i) a more rational use of available resources;
(ii) increased competition from the private and cooperative sectors; and (iii) greater
financial autonomy of OMVs: substantial achievement, except the financial OMV
autonomy due to the dispersion of OMV structures into the CRDA;
(c) setting up an institutional framework providing for: (i) improved management
efficiency and greater accountability for OMVs; and (ii) strengthened planning and
control capabilities for Government services in charge of monitoring OMVs'
operations: negligible achievement due to the dispersion of OMV structures into the
CRDA; and
(d) increasing the role and responsibilities of Water User Associations in the O&M
irrigation systems: partial achievement.
6. To achieve its overall objectives, the Project has implemented, over a nine-year period
(compared with five years initially scheduled), the following actions with various rates of
achievement (See Table 5):
(a) an Investment Component aimed at strengthening OMVs' O&M capabilities
including:
-    the purchase of heavy equipment and vehicles for O&M activities;
-    the rehabilitation of the hydro- and electro-mechanical (HEM) equipment;
-    the establishment of safety stocks of spare parts for HEM equipment and
irrigation networks;
-    the rehabilitation for part of OMVVM's (i) irrigation network (serving an area
of about 1,000 ha); and (ii) drainage network (1,100 km of ditches and 960 km
of drains); and
-2 -



support for the improvement and maintenance of OMVVM's feeder road
system (600 Iam);
This investment component was almost fully implemented.
(b) an Institutional/Policy Reform Component aimed at:
-    strengthening the coordination between OMVs and their supervisory Ministries
(Agriculture, Plan, Finance) for the planning and monitoring of their activities:
acceptable coordination between OMV and then CRDA with Ministry of
Agriculture; probably looser with other Ministry. That coordination will be
consolidated in the framework of the on-going Agricultural Sector Investment
Loan (ASIL);
-    strengthening the role of Water User Associations (WUAs) in the O&M of
irrigation systems: partial achievement; irrigation AICs increased from 158 in
1989 to 477 in 1995; thefully developed AICs are carrying out only part of the
O&M of irrigation systems.
-    improving the management of OMVs through the setting-up of an efficient
Management Information System (MIS) and the definition of improved
fmancial and operating procedures: no achievement due to the dispersion of
OMV structures into the CRDA; and
-    introducing pricing policies for OMVs' services, in particular for irrigation
water, promoting a more rational use of existing resources and a greater
ftnancial autonomy of OMVs: substantial achievement (See paras 38-40).
(c) a Technical Assistance, Training and Support Action Component including:
-    technical assistance to OMVs to define improved accounting, financial and
operating procedures, set up a new MIS and carry out the necessary related
training programs: no achievement, as the CRDA, as administrative organisms,
are not structured to apply these types of reform;
-    technical assistance to OMVs to prepare detailed terms of reference or
engineering design for proposed project works, and to carry out proposed
water management studies: very substantial achievement;
-    technical assistance to the Department of Planning and Statistics (DPSAE) to
strengthen capabilities to plan and monitor OMVs' activities: no achievement;
-    the establishment of a system to monitor water flow in OMVVM's irrigation
network: partial achievement;
- 3 -



the creation of a pilot sector of about 500 ha where OMWM would test
alternative water delivery and management technologies: cancelled, the project
manager considering that sufficient technical data are available on the topics
to be tested;
the equipment necessary for the OMV of Gafsa-Jerid to carry out experiments
on water saving technologies and cropping methods: cancelled in 1991 because
it was judged that experimental work on water techniques, given their
important scope and impact for the country, should be the objective of specific
projects; and
(d) on-fann development : through agricultural credit (not monitored by the project).
7. The project was thoroughly designed on the basis of detailed O&M studies prepared in
1983 by consulting firms; the prevailing conditions during appraisal in 1984, the project
design was appropriate for achieving the proposed objectives. After the 1989 administrative
reforms, some of the initial objectives such as the build up of efficient management
information systems, including modern accounting standards, and the preparation of program-
contracts between the OMV and the Government, were abandoned, as they had no object for
the CRDAs' administrative structures.
8. The criteria for judging the achievement of the objectives had not been identified during
appraisal; no key indicators were quantified and the project progress was simply monitored
according to the matrix shown in Table 5. Mainly because of the lack of proper
monitoring/evaluation, it is practically impossible to calculate an economic rate of return for
the project (para. 54).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
9. Factors not subject to Government control. The Project suffered in 1992/93 from
procurement delays because of the lack of satisfactory responses from local bidders to
perform contracts for the rehabilitation of hydro- and electro-mechanical equipment. By the
end 1993 this type of contract finally began attracting qualified and interested firms,
permitting completion of this component with some delay.
10.   The climatic conditions have an impact on budget management by the CRDA; since
the subsidy to a CRDA's operational budget (Titre I Budget de fonctionnement) cannot
exceed the total amount of its water sales, in a given budget year, the financing capacity of
the CRDA is considerably expanded in dry years when the volume of water sales increase.
This was the case from 1987 to 89 and from 1993 to 95; water sales revenues were
particularly low during the rainy year 1991 to 92.
11.   Factors subject to Government control. The Project was affected by a one-year
delay in effectiveness due to the initial absence of consensus on the project's desirability at
the Tunisian Chamber of Deputies. Mid-1986, the project started very slowly due to
- 4 -



management problems, mainly the difficulty to set-up the Project Management Unit (PMU);
the first disbursement occurred end - 1987, i.e. two years later than expected.
12.   The direction of the PMU was entrusted end-1987 to the ex-director of the national
water distribution company (SONEDE); during the subsequent 4 years, the project then
suffered from the demotivating atmosphere created by its leader, its lack of management
capacity, the limited and unproductive contacts maintained by the project manager with the
regional OMVPI, etc. From 1988 to end-1991, most of the SPN reports mentioned the WB
concern about the project mismanagement, but the Government was probably not in a
position to consider a change in director before end 1991, when a new and dynamic Project
management came on board and the project resumed a normal pace of implementation, kept
till its completion.
13.   The June 1989 reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture further disturbed the
project progress. A decision was reached in that year to decentralize the MOA by devolving
various functions to the Regional Commissariats of Agricultural Development (CRDAs) in
each of the twenty-three administrative regions. The Government's reasons for this
reorganization were independent of this project, and the decision was taken without prior
consultation with the Bank. Along with the reorganization came the disengagement of
Government institutions from input delivery, credit provision and various marketing services.
As part of the reorganization, the functions of the OMVs, the Project executing agencies,
were merged with those of the CRDAs, resulting in the institutional component of the Project
no longer able to be implemented along the initial design. In particular the introduction in the
OMV " of modern management information systems (program-contracts, private-orientated
managerial methods for cost accounting, financial planning and a posteniori control, etc.)
was no longer possible in the context of the CRDAs which were managed as a public
administration. After one and a half years of hesitation and adaptation, the new regional
CRDA structure of the Ministry of Agriculture became fully operational in 1991.
14.   Factors subject to implementation agency control. The technical assistance
component that was financed separately by the European Community contributed significantly
to the project. Two permanent expatriate engineers were engaged to strengthen management
processes for pumping stations and irrigation networks, including to establish thorough
diagnosis, prepare action plans and tendering documents for rehabilitation works and
maintenance contracts and to organize training seminars and study tours. Unfortunately in
January 1990, the project manager interrupted the contract of the irrigation engineer, which
led to considerable delays on infrastructure rehabilitation and plans for its future preventive
maintenance.
15.   Based on new legal instruments promulgated in 1988, the creation of Water User
Associations (WUA or AIC in French) began to be promoted slowly; their development is
particularly difficult in the northern PPI because it is difficult to create associations of a size
significant to cover the infrastructure that effectively assures water delivery to the farmer.
Beyond 1992, after modification of the 1988 Law to attribute more responsibility and
" The OMV benefitted of the rules applied to the enterprises with commercial and industrial profile.
-5-



financial autonomy to the WUA, progress in constituting them has accelerated. There are
presently 477 WUA, although they are still relatively rare in the northern PPI.
16.    Cost changes. The project investmnent costs (see Table 8A) totalled US$ 30.44
million. This is US$ 2.06 million (7%) over the SAR estimate, mainly because of a cost
overrun of US$ 6.3 million in the maintenance contracts, while most other expenditures were
somewhat less than expected." The importance of maintenance contracts increased because
the CRDAs disengaged from many activities (previously done by OMVs, including force
account works) that were subsequently entrusted to the private sector; this focus on
maintenance affected positively the project, much more than expected at appraisal.
17.    The main variances in the investment cost of project components are the result of the
difficulty during preparation to design accurately most components of this type of project.
Dominant differences with SAR cost estimates are the following: i) safety stock of canals and
pipes: + 98%, due to higher than expected demand; ii) - 35% on vehicles, as only 67
service cars and trucks were procured when 112 were planned; iii) cancellation of the pilot
irrigation schemes, representing 13% of the SAR investment cost; iv) - 74% on computer
equipment (the Electronic Data Processing was not provided) and - 35% on the studies due
mainly to the cancellation of the Management Information Systems; and v) + 280% of the
maintenance contracts, indicating the successful CRDA policy to transfer to the private sector
most of the activities so far implemented by force account.
18.    The recurrent expenses considered in the SAR were the O&M costs of the equipment
and vehicles supplied by the project. As the CRDAs are applying governmental accounting
procedures, but not modern analytical accounting systems, the actual expenses could not be
identified. A reconstruction of recurrent costs, using an approach described in Appendix 1,
provides the recurrent cost figures presented in Table 8a.
19.    Although tentative, the estimate of actual recurrent costs suggests that the levels of
O&M expenditures deemed necessary at appraisal were never met. The recurrent costs
accounted for almost half the SAR total project costs but were never the object of any
specific financing commitment from the Government. This was partly because of the SAR
assumptions that recurrent cost financing was manageable due to O&M costs being better
controlled and expected better coverage of these costs by higher irrigation tariffs. OMV's
"program-contracts" were in any event to be carefully monitored to ensure adequate recurrent
cost financing. However, this approach and system of controls was not translated or
reconfigured following the OMVs replacement by CRDAs. As a result, the O&M of the
rehabilitated irrigation infrastructures tended to be neglected, partly because the budgetary
allocations were reduced in the context of economic structural adjustment programs.
20.   Implementation delays. At appraisal, the project was expected to last 7 years, from
loan signing (July 1985) to closing date (June 1992). At Government request, the closing date
was extended first in 1992 by two years to June 1994, then by one extra year to June 1995.
"  With the noticeable exception of technical assistance/training, stocks of pipes/flumes and materials. US$2 million
more than expected were spent by the EC on technical assistance/training (see para. 41).
- 6 -



The 3-year delay is the consequence of one year between signing and effectiveness, and two
more years due to a combination of the 1989 administrative reform and the difficulties
encountered initially in the procurement of hydro- and electro-mechanical equipment for the
pumping stations and the irrigation networks. The weak project management from 1988 to
1991 also contributed to implementation delays.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21.    The long-term sustainability of the project depends on three factors: the adequacy of
the O&M on the irrigation infrastructures, the financing of the O&M, and the involvement of
the private sector.
22.    The adequacy of the O&M in the future is primarily a matter of organization and
specific proposals are made to this effect in Section H. The financing of the O&M raises
institutional as well as economic questions. In addition to ensuring that water charges are
sufficient to cover the related costs - which is achievable as demonstrated in Appendix 1 - the
CRDA's "Operation Arrondissements (OA)" must be able to collect the revenues in a way
that compensates for the substantial inter-annual variation of receipts because of irrigation
demand responsiveness to variable rainfall. As a unit within an administrative entity
(CRDA), OAs are required by budget law to transfer net receipts from irrigation water sales
revenues to the Ministry of Finance each end of year, while the budget subsidies that CRDAs
receive for irrigation are proportional to the water sales in an average year. As a
consequence, the funds available to the CRDA are generally inadequate in high rainfall years
when water sales are low but overhead costs continue, with the result that maintenance is
inadequate. Part of the solution is clearly for the OA to further reduce their considerable
overheads so that there are less fixed costs to contribute to this inter-annual budget issue.
Other solutions are being tested to enable CRDAs to manage this variation so as to better
match receipts to expenditures, such as advance payment for water by farmers in Ariana
CRDA. The binomial tariff offers potential is addressing the issue, but has other operational
constraints.
23.    The involvement of the private sector implies helping the AICs to take over the
O&M of the irrigation infrastructures, since the AICs should in the future be capable of
carrying out the O&M work more efficiently and in a more sustainable manner, at least in
the case of the on-farm works and part of the conveyance canals. A specially targeted
training program would be necessary to achieve rapid results in this respect."
' The on-going KfW training project focuses on AICs responsible for village water wells.
- 7 -



E. BANK PERFORMANCE
24.    The project identified during the 1982 Bank Agricultural Sector Survey was
consistent with the development strategy for agriculture and the priority role given to
irrigation within the sector, both being fully agreed by the Government and the Bank. After a
long period of specific projects aiming to further development of new irrigation in specific
areas, the present project represented a next generation by tackling systemic issues of the
irrigation sub-sector. It gave priority to partial rehabilitation, improvement of operation and
maintenance activities and institutional changes to sustain the above priorities rather than to
new investments. Nevertheless, the project has the configuration of an investment program.
It should have been prepared, implemented and monitored with the flexibility dedicated to
programs, inter alia with less emphasis on fixed production targets and less disaggregation
by farm model of financial/economic analysis than done in the SAR.
25.    The Bank assistance during preparation was particularly significant, as a large part of
a previous Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2197-TUN) was devoted to specific studies
undertaken between 1983 and 1984 related to the preparation of the present project.
26.    The project was thoroughly appraised on the technical side. The economic analysis
was very detailed with the elaboration of 28 farm models mostly based on theoretical
assumptions but as a practical matter it is difficult to assess these models after project
completion, thus rendering the appraisal exercise somewhat academic. Limited efforts were
made to evaluate the part of the command areas expected to benefit from the project, and to
defme performance indicators; in particular a specific assessment of the increased water use
efficiency should have constituted the ultimate measure of project success.
27.    The appraisal of Government commitment and of the capacity of the implementing
agencies was correct. It should be recognized that at appraisal there were no thoughts being
given to the dramatic reorganization of the implementing agencies that was subsequently put
in place. The project design was ambitious and complex in retrospect excessively so; while
none of the components is redundant and all are well articulated, a sequence of projects
addressing homogeneous categories of irrigation perimeters (Medjerdah large perimeter,
Kairouan small pumping units, Southern oasis, etc.) could have led to more modest sized and
manageable projects. The assessed risks in SAR were related to a lower than expected
production response and rehabilitation cost savings, but the fundamental reorganization or the
issues related to an inappropriate project management were not anticipated.
28.    Completely missing in the SAR were quantifiable performance indicators to be
monitored during implementation; this gap was also neglected during supervision. The
indicators for project operation, especially important in this type of project, were also
disregarded; in particular the evaluation of water efficiency should have benefitted from
monitoring several key indicators.
29.    During the implementation period, from mid 1986 to mid-1995, the Bank organized
thirteen supervision missions and updated the WB Form 590 SPN on three additional
occasions, which corresponds to an average of one mission every seven months; two
missions per year took place during the period 1987 to 1990, when the main management
-8 -



problems arose; then till the end, one annual mission was sufficient. Project supervision was
characterized by exceptional continuity but a narrow skill mix, since all the supervision were
undertaken by the same engineer, always alone, even for the mid-term review in 1989; it is
regrettable that neither an agronomist nor an economist ever participated in supervision
mission, because they would have been more likely to insist that priority be given to the
monitoring/evaluation of the project agricultural outputs. Further, it is surprising that there
was not a more concerted effort to evaluate the impact on the project of the MOA
reorganization and need for restructuring of the project. The reorganisation posed significant
questions about key project elements such as mechanisms for recurrent cost financing and
management of irrigation budgets, and a number of clauses in the Legal Agreement become
inoperable. But apart from the lack of such reflection, routine supervision by the Bank was
satisfactory in terms of mission timing, field visits, adequately reported of implementation
progress and identification of the prominent issues.
30.   However, the Bank advice concerning project mismanagement continued for three
years beginning 1988 without effect until 1991. Furthermore, there was no Bank request for
a general review of the project to account for the consequences for the project of the 1989
reorganization of the MOA, nor amendment of the Loan Agreement to recognize the new
institutional structure and non-viability of several project covenants. Despite numerous
attempts by the Bank, the Ministry never allocated the necessary staff to the Project
Management Unit as specified in the SAR (but not specifically in the Loan Agreement); this
is mainly the consequence of permanent budgetary constraints that translated into recruitment
freezes at the ministry level. It should also be noted that the almost exclusively engineering
profile of supervision mission staffing may have contributed to the lack of rectification of the
absence of monitoring indicators to permit measuring the impact of improved management of
irrigation infrastructure.
31.   The working relations were generally excellent between the implementation agencies
(OMV, and then CRDA), the European Community representative and the Bank supervisor;
from 1988 to 1991, the lack of relations between the PMU and the OMV/CRDA and the
demotivating atmosphere created by the project manager was a permanent concern for the
Bank; this situation lasted until 1992, when the Directorate of Rural Engineering was again
entrusted with the project management, and remedied the past unfavorable situation.
32.   It should be mentioned that project implementation never induce any significant
deviations from Bank policies and procedures; the procurement and disbursement procedures
per se didn't raise any particular difficulties for the PMU.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The project was identified during the Bank Agricultural Sector Survey of 1982 and
prepared under the Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN). The
project was thoroughly prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture (Department of Planning,
Statistics and Economic Analysis and Department of Rural Engineering) with the assistance
of a consortium of local and foreign consulting firms. Through four back-up missions, the
FAO/CP also participated in the preparation.
-9-



34.    The preparation of the project was very satisfactory. During 1983-84 all necessary
studies were carried out and progress was frequently reviewed and discussed with the
Government by WB or/and FAO/CP follow-up missions. Nevertheless, the farmers were not
adequately involved in the process.
35.    Despite mismanagement which affected the project from 1988 to 1991, and dramatic
reorganization which substituted administrative structures (CRDA) for the OMV executing
agencies, the project implementation was globally satisfactory. Table 5 provides a qualitative
description of the various achievements, on a similar format to that adopted in the Bank
supervision reports.
36.    It should be emphasized that the sudden restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture
in 1989 disturbed considerably the project's execution. The current institutional organization
dealing with public irrigation (CRDA) is in some ways less suitable and efficient for the
conducting of commercial-type of operations (such as the delivery of water) than the previous
organizations (OMV) before restructuring.
37.    The Investment Component. The rehabilitation of irrigation/drainage networks,
concentrated in the Medjerdah Valley, were fully completed (39 km of concrete canals, 107
km of rural roads and 312 km of drains); all maintenance heavy equipment, vehicles, spare
parts, workshop tools, radio and computer equipment were delivered; based on sound
diagnosis, contracts with private enterprises for the maintenance of irrigation/drainage
infrastructure (mainly irrigation network and electromechanical equipment) are now replacing
force account activities in most of the CRDA; initially designed only for large pumping
stations in four OMV, the rehabilitation of electromechanical equipment was expanded to a
large number of tubewell pumping equipment. The overall rating of this component is
therefore very satisfactory.
38.    Institutional/Policy Reform Component. The situation in the Institutional/Policy
Reform component is less satisfactory. In fact, the integration of the OMVs in the CRDAs
negatively affected directly the implementation of key aspects of this component:
establishment of sound accounting principles and management information systems, and
deflnition of the relations between the State and the departments in charge of the water
management." The new legislation for the AICs has been promulgated in October 1987,
improved in December 1992, but its effectiveness is experiencing difficulties, particularly in
the North. The level of development of the existing AICs -- and the success in promoting
new ones -- have been much better in Southern regions where farmers have been accustomed
to water sharing for centuries. The water charges have been systematically increased, at a
pace not appreciably less than what had been agreed, and the objective of full recovery of
The Ministry of Agriculture has persisted independently in testing commercial accounting in two pilot CRDAS --
Ariana and Bizerte -- where routine implementation is to begin in 1996. All CRDAs have received training on the
advantages of commercial accounting.
- 10 -



O&M cost nearly reached". The legislation to define the binomial tariff and various
modalities for payment of irrigation water has been promulgated but not implemented.
39.    Water Tariffs. A specific loan covenant anticipated that the water charges to farmers
for irrigation water were to be increased by an average of 9% per year in constant terms
(after inflation). Appendix Table 1 illustrates the evolution of the fees by CRDA over the
project period. In constant terms, the average annual increase rate varies from 11 % in
Jendouba to 1 % in Nabeul. Appendix Table 2 shows that the overall average for all CRDAs
is 7.4% when weighted by the respective consumption volumes of water by CRDA. This
average is satisfactory considering the institutional difficulties experienced during project
execution, and compared to similar situations in other developing countries. It must also be
pointed out that the basis for setting the level at a target of 9% is not stated in the SAR; it
was perhaps over-optimistically estimated.
40.    Recovery of O&M costs. Appendix Table 3 compares the fees for 1994, by CRDA,
to the actual costs for the CRDAs of delivering the water. The coverage of the costs by the
fees varies from 51 % in the case of Kasserine to 184% in the case of Siliana. Weighted by
the 1994 consumption volumes, the overall average for all CRDAs is of 106%. This result
must be interpreted with caution. 1994 was a year of high demand for irrigation water as
rainfall was low. Some of the direct costs are not fully variable in the sense that they do not
decrease proportionately with a lowering of the consumption, personnel for example.
Therefore, economies of scale were gained in 1994 which would not necessarily exist at
lower levels of water consumption. Nevertheless, it has been demonstrated that already at
this point in time, the fees can cover the related direct costs under favorable circumstances.
41.    Technical Assistance. The technical assistance component, entirely granted by the
European Community (equivalent to about US$3.3 million) aimed to: i) establish the
rehabilitation requirements of the irrigation/drainage infrastructure; ii) define the
methodology to set up routine procedures for preventive maintenance; and iii) assist the
Ministry in the establishment of maintenance contracts. The component was expected to
provide the permanent assistance of two expatriate experts and additional short-term
consultancies on specific themes. Despite some misunderstandings with the project director in
early 1990 the results of the assistance were extremely satisfactory as they provided a clear
program of actions for rehabilitation works and preventive maintenance, and largely
contributed to the effective training of national technical staff at the central ministry and
regional implementation unit levels.
42.    In a first 4'h year-phase, from September 1988 to March 1993, an expatriate
pumping station specialist carried out the diagnosis of the electromechanical equipment
inventory, and the definition of action plans for each OMV (then CRDA) including tendering
documents to rehabilitate the defective equipment. During 2h years, (from September 1987
to January 1990), an expatriate irrigation engineer endeavored to motivate the OMV and
In fact, in 1994, a drought year, high water sales allowed CRDAs to fully cover energy, personnel, transport,
consumables and miscellaneous expenses, although not provisioning for repairs and replacement costs.
- 11 -



CRDA in favor of maintenance operations, especially preventive maintenance; he also
organized training seminars and study tours abroad, ascertained the need of rehabilitation of
the irrigation infrastructures and prepared maintenance programs for pilot sectors. The
assistance was expanded under a second phase from 1994 to February 1996, with the
collaboration of two expatriate engineers, of which the mechanical engineer was the same
who participated in the first phase.
43.    Project management. The appraisal report anticipated the formation of a Project
Management Unit, with one director, one deputy, two administrative staff, two counterpart
specialists (one irrigation and one electro-mechanical engineer), and the support staff as
required. Until 1992, the Unit was short-handed, lacking in particular an electro-mechanical
specialist. When in 1992 the Director of Rural Engineering resumed project management, he
nominated a full-time project coordinator, who benefitted from ad-hoc back-up of other
Directorate staff; no other specific staff was designated. In August 1995 a national
electromechanical engineer was designated as counterpart to the expatriate, acting since 1987
in the frame of the above mentioned EEC technical assistance.
44.    The Coordinating and Monitoring Committee to be established as an effectiveness
condition of the Loan has never been functionally operational, despite some meetings taking
place (last meeting recorded: May 1990).
45.    Contractors and consultants. A total of 192 contracts were signed during the project
period, of which 115 with local executants (contractor, supplier, consulting firm, etc) and 77
under joint venture contracts between local and foreign executants. More than 30 contracts
were signed in each of the following component: material safety stocks, vehicles and heavy
plants/equipment, and maintenance contracts. Six study contracts were entrusted to consulting
firms.
46.    The executants' performance was generally satisfactory. Difficulties were
encountered initially getting local enterprises to participate successfully in the project's
completion procurement; due to their lack of experience in maintenance activities the
contractors proposed unrealistic high bids, leading to re-tendering of some operations. Later,
when advised on the nature of the requested works, the contractors submitted realistic bids,
and their efficiency increased. The results of the studies, contracted to consultants of world
wide reputation, associated with local consultants, were of high standard; it can be regretted
that the proposed solutions were too sophisticated and therefore too costly to be
implemented, taking into account the permanent financial constraints.
47.    Project monitoring and evaluation. The Government carried out the monitoring and
evaluation activities listed in the SAR (Para 6.21 and 6.22) related mainly to semiannual,
annual and completion reports; participation of the Government in a mid-term review and a
management audit was also planned and carried out. The performance indicators expected for
monitoring the progress of "program-contract" in three OMV were only qualitative.
48.    As mentioned above (paras. 4, 8, 26 and 28), none of the actual activities related to
the present terminology "monitoring and evaluation", and proposed to be implemented in the
future, was carried out during the project. No key indexes were defined to monitor the
- 12 -



progress of physical components (see mission proposals in para. 57); no proper project area
was identified, and indeed, no actual figures on agricultural production inside those areas was
properly collected. At the time of writing of this report however, the DGR has initiated, in
collaboration with CRDAs, development of a monitoring system for irrigation projects and is
currently in the process of baseline data collection and verification.
49.    Compliance with major loan covenants. The main legal covenants totalled 34, of
which 10 of financial nature, 21 on management aspects and three related to technical topics.
Due to the Ministry reorganization in 1989, four managerial and three financial covenants
were judged inapplicable and were not enforced. Some other covenants, in particular on the
binomial water rate structure were reinstated in the on-going Agriculture Sector Investment
Loan (Ln 3661-TUN). Though quite numerous, the remaining covenants were complied with
(see Table 10). All audit and progress reports were delivered as anticipated in the covenants.
It should be noted that at the time of issuance of this ICR, there is still an unrecovered
balance of US$37,600 from the Special Account, such that the Loan is not technically closed.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
50.    Summarizing the achievement of objectives detailed in Section B, the project
outcome was globally satisfactory, as most of its major objectives were achieved. The
Department of Rural Engineering and the CRDA technical divisions have derived
considerable benefits from the technical assistance and training component, entirely funded
by the European Community.
51.    Another important project outcome is the improved perception of maintenance
activities by all operative structures; the curative maintenance that prevailing in the past,
leading to costly ad-hoc repairs, is being replaced by preventive maintenance. This new
approach is still difficult to implement satisfactorily because it has yet to be fully translated
into budget processes that assure funds for prevention activities.
52.   It is certain that the water distribution efficiency has improved, and the farmers are
perceiving significant improvements (more regular water rotation, fewer breakdowns,etc.),
but this judgment remains qualitative since no monitoring system or performance indicators
existed to allow a quantified evaluation. The DRE is now addressing this gap (para. 48).
53.    The project's outcome is satisfactory both in terms of improving the O&M on most
public irrigation schemes and increasing agricultural production. Improvements in O&M
methodology and procedures are already visible in the irrigation schemes but much
organizational work remains to be carried out for the procedures to become standardized at
the DGR level and regularly applied by the CRDAs (see Section H). Also, the financing of
the O&M remains an outstanding issue to secure project sustainability (Section D).
54.    However, the quantifiable evidence available to the mission (see Appendix 1)
suggests that the ERR, over a period of 20 years, would be favorable, i.e. above the standard
discount/cut-off rate of 10%. It is, however, unlikely that the rate would be as high as the
- 13 -



30% estimated at appraisal. The main project benefits were essentially in terms of
institutional strengthening rather than increased agricultural production.
55.    In addition, the cost savings through the avoidance of repeated investments for the
rehabilitation of the existing schemes should also be included in the project benefits.
However, most of these savings have not yet materialized since the rehabilitation work
executed through the project has only taken place over the last three years and the present
lack of proper monitoring/evaluation during project execution prevents any precise economic
calculations based on realized reductions in rehabilitation frequency.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
56.    A significant weakness of the SAR is the lack of plans for the project's future
operation, which should have been considered thoroughly; indeed the project is providing the
necessary instruments to improve irrigation management, but directions for their use are
lacking. By completion, the project assembled most of the conditions for successful
operation; but the stock of spare parts is being depleted, the permanence of trained staff is
jeopardized by attractive propositions from the private sector, the institutional changes
require constant monitoring and frequent up-dating, etc.; the absence of a sound action plan
for future operation, backed by a solid monitoring/evaluation structure could rapidly lead to a
loss of interest from the project participants. It is a significant shortcoming that no
understanding was never reached between the Government and the Bank on this important
aspect.
57.     The ICR mission made the following proposals and recommendations to remedy the
situation and secure the project sustainability; their implementation remains to be assured:
-   Maintain and, if possible, strengthen the Project Management Unit, which from
implementation would now be entrusted with project operation in the frame of a new
Monitoring/Evaluation Unit.
-   Define optimal maintenance objectives for each type of infrastructure, calculated as a
percentage of the infrastructure asset and endeavor to approach gradually these
optimum; detailed monitoring of financial indicators for each CRDA (standardized
presentation set up by the DGR).
-   Establish short and medium-term action plans for maintenance, including logistic
means required, staff, investment and recurrent costs. Conduct trimesterly
monitoring of realizations, as compared with initial plan time schedules.
-   Identify and monitor operation and indicators, with these to be consolidated in an
indicator of increased water use efficiency, which is the ultimate measure of project
success. Standardize data sheet and collection procedures in each CRDA. Information
to be gathered and analyzed by the monitoring/evaluation unit (DGR) should include
an annual summary and pluri-annual development.
- 14 -



In addition, a detailed monitoring/evaluation system of agricultural returns should be
set up by the DGR in collaboration with CRDA divisions dealing with agricultural
production, planning and economic analysis (see para. 48).
58.    It is further recommended that further technical assistance be provided to set up the
appropriate methodology and action programs for the proposed MEU. The assistance tasks,
with support to initial operations, should not take more than 6 months.
59.    The Administration has various options to finance the proposed follow-up activities,
including resources available through donor programs.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
60.    The major lessons learned during project implementation are as follows:
(i)      Project size should always be in accordance with the absorptive
(institutional/financial) capacity of the executing agency as well as of the
ultimate beneficiaries. When recurrent costs are a substantial part of total
project costs, often the case in irrigation projects, specific commitments for the
fmancing of the former should be worked out before project start so that the
underfunding of the recurrent costs does not jeopardize the
effectiveness/sustainability of the financed investments.
(ii)     When more than one Division of the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned by
project activities - nonnally those in charge of irrigation infrastructure and
agriculture production (representing the ultimate beneficiaries) in the case of an
irrigation project - great care must be taken to involve directly and fully all
these Divisions so that the project's benefits can be reached as soon as possible
and project results efficiently monitored.
(iii)    At appraisal stage, the design of a proper monitoring/evaluation system should
be a critical element of any project, particularly those which are nation-wide
and mainly composed of rehabilitation and/or restructuring activities. It is
practically impossible to assess the benefits without a proper system, but much
managerial effort is wasted trying to understand the overall situation, rather
than taking remedial actions, during project execution.
(iv)     The number of Loan covenants should be limited, and only priority
conditionalities necessary for proper project implementation mentioned.
Indistinctly described goals are to be avoided and quantifiable/achievable
targets should be the rule.
(v)      When the institutional arrangements previously agreed upon are substantially
changed during project execution, as the case arose with the dramatic
reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, the new situation should be
formally reviewed and the appropriate modifications made to the project design
and to the Loan Agreement articles and schedules.
- 15 -



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial    Partial    Neeligible  Not AnDlicable
(e           (e          (e            (e6
Macro policies                       E                        1            [1
Sector policies                    ED]                       1  0          0
Financial objectives               [j]          EC]          FI            []
Institutional development           [O]                                    EiO
Physical objectives               [EC                                      F]
Poverty reduction                                            F              E71
Gender issues                      EO           Li            L]           17]
Other social objectives             [O]                      Fi ]          171
Envirommental objectives             0F                      [1]           171
Public sector management           [O]                                     FO
Private sector development         FO           17]          [D            [O
Other (specify)                    ED           E3           F0            Fi
B. Proiect sustainability             Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
f09          (V)         0/
Highly
C. Bank performance                 satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
(e           (e)         (e
Identification                        ]                      LII
Preparation assistance              E                        [I]
Appraisal                           E           EC              ]
Supervision                         G7 E                     E
- 16 -



Higl
D. Borrower verformance                satisfactory   Satisfacton    Deficient
(e)           (e6
Preparation                                       [             L]
Implementation                      []            []           FI
Covenant compliance                 []            [C           E3
Operation (if applicable)           IZ            LI                  n.a.
Highiy                                       Hisb1
E. Assessment of outcome            satisfacton   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
- 17 -



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose             Year of          Status
approval
Preceding Operations
Northwest Rural Development Project (LN   Poverty alleviation        1982           Closed
1997-TUN)                                                                          01/02/90
Grain Storage Project                  Storage and distribution of   1982           Closed
(LN 2052-TUN)                         grain                                         12/31/88
Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation Project    Irrigation                    1983           Closed
(LN 2157-TUN)                                                                      06/30/89
Technical Assistance                  Irrigation studies             1983           Closed
(LN 2197-TUN)
Central Tunisia Irrigation Project     Irrigation                    1983           Closed
(LN 2234-TUN)                                                                       12/31/90
New Agricultural Production Project    Agriculture improvement       1986           Closed
(LN 2502-TUN)                                                                       12/31/91
Nat. Irrigation Management             Irrigation                    1986         Closing date
Implenentation Project                                                             06/30/95
(LN 2573-TUN)
Following Operations
Gabes Irrigation Project               Irrigation                    1986         Closing date
(LN 2605-TUN)                                                                      09/30/93
Agric. Sector Adjustment              Agriculture development                          -
(LN 2754-TUN)
Second Agric. Sector Adjustment       Agriculture development        1987           Closed
(LN 3078-TUN)                                                                       12/31/94
Agric. Credit BNT IV Project          Credit                         1988           Closed
(LN 2865-TUN)                                                                       12/31/91
Research and Extension                Institution capacity building  1991         Closing date
(LN 3217-TUN)                                                                      06/30/96
Second Forestry Development Project    Forest management and         1994         Closing date
(LN 3601-TUN)                         plantations                                  12/31/2000
Agric. Sector Investment Project      Agriculture development        1994         Closing date
(LN 3661-TUN)                                                                      06/30/99
Development of Mountainous Regions     Northwest mountainous areas   1994         Closing date
Project (LN 3691-TUN)                 development                                 06/30/2000
- 18 -



Table 3: Project Timetable
.                              Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned            latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                      June 1982
Preparation                                                                   September 1982
Appraisal                                                                     September 1984
Negotiations                                                                    April 1985
Board presentation                                                              June 1985
Signing                                                                          July 1985
Effectiveness                                        November 1985              July 1986
Mid-term review                                      December 1988            November 1989
Project completion                                     June 1991                June 1995
Loan closing                                           June 1992                June 1995
Final payment                                                                  October 1995
Table 4. Cumulative Loan Disbursement
(US$ million)
FY86      FY87    FY88    FY89   FY90!   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
SAR Estimate    1.50      6.50     13.50    17.50   15.00   16.00   17.00
Actual          0.00      0.94     4.13     5.46    6.94    8.68    9.87    12.23   14.62   17.00
Actual as % of  0%        14%      31%      31%      46%     54%     58%      72%     86%     100%
SAR
W US$ 5 million was cancelled from the initial loan of US$ 22 million as of 28/6/90.
- 19 -



Table 5: Project Achievements"
(September 1995)
Field                            Action Foreseen                           Aclievements
I. Investments
O&M equipment for the OMVs         To purchase heavy equipment and vehicles   All equipment and vehicles bought and
for O&M activities.                      distributed to the OMVs/CRDAs.
Safety stocks                      To constitute a safety stock of spare parts    The entire safety stocks have been bought and
including: (1) canals, conduits, and (2)  delivered.
hydro- and electrm-mechanical equipment to
ensure proper operation of irrigation and
drainage systems.                                                                 l
Rehabilitation of irrigation and   To provide OMVs with the necessary spares The diagnosis of the electro-mechanical and
drainage systems                   to rehabilitate their water distiibution  of the networks completed.
systems.
Maintenance contracts              To establish contracts to rehabilitate and  Signature of 40 maintenance contracts.
ensure routine maintenance of the irrigation
systems after rehabilitation.
Rehabilitation works in OMVVM      To rehabilitate part of the OMVVM        This component was implemented.
irrigation, drainage and rural roads networks.
OMVVM water monitoring system      To design and set up a water monitoring  Studies completed; supply and installation of
system to improve water management.      equipment only for main pumping stations.
OMVVM pilot irrigation             To establish a pilot perimeter to test new  Study completed; implementation abandoned.
technologies for future application in the  Para. 6 - (c).
area.
Gafsa water savings experiments    Test water savings technologies.         Agreements signed with INAT and INRAT
but not implemented. Para. 6 - (c).
Other equipment                    Purchase of radio and computer equipment   Radio equipment and computers delivered for
respectively 11 and 8 CRDAs.
H. Insitutlional/Pollcy Reform
Coordination between OMVs and their To start with three OMVs on a pilot basis    Elements for a draft programme-contract
Ministry                           (programme contracts), to be extended to all prepared by OMVVM; to be replaced in the
OMVs later.                              larger framework of the CRDAs through
implementing Development Plans.
OMV/farmers relations              Establishment of the legal framework for    Foreseen legislation has been promulgated;
farmers associations.                    establishment of the associations in
accordance with this new legislation under
way.
Promotion of the private sector    Gradual and complete release from the    Most targeted activities have been completely
OMVs and transfer to the private sector of  transferred.
all commercially oriented and subsidized
activities.
Improvement of OMVs' management  Establishment of efficient MIS; staff      Initiated with OMVVM but interrupted
development.                            following the reform of the Ministry; further
studies aiming at defning MIS in two pilot
CRDAs were abandoned.
Pricing policies                   Increase of water charges till full O&M cost Water charges have been systematically
recovery and application of binomial tariffs,  increased, but generally below the agreed
pace; the legislation defining methods of
payment of irrigation water has been prepared
but not published; therefore, binomial tariffs
(one of these methods) have not been applied
yet.
' Replacing the Key Indicators Table, as no quantitative indicator was identified.
- 20 -



Table 5: Project Achievements LI
(September 1995)
Field                           Action Foreeen                            Achievements
Accounting principles for the OMVs   Distribute a circular with the new accounting A seminar took place in October 1985 ndW
principles to be followed by the OMVs.  general principles agreed upon and informally
foDowed by the OMVs since then; in 1987
and 1988 further discussions were held; in
the meantime, the reform of the Ministry
took place and the CRDAs should foDlow the
principles of public accounts; it is foreseen to
keep cash accounts for water sales.
HI. Technical Assistance, Training and Support Activities
Project Management Unit            Appointment of the Director, staff and  The Project Management Unit has been
supply of equipment.                    operational, but it never had the structure and
means initialy foreseen.
Technical assistance to DGCOMVPPI Diagnosis of the networks situation and need The technical assistance team started to
for rehabilitution.                     operate in January 1988; the diagnosis for the
hydro-mechanical equipment and for the
Set up of a preventive maintenance system.  networks have been completed; principles for
the preventive maintenance methnodology and
Implementation of maintenance contracts.    maintenance have been agreed.
Implementation started in 1995.
Technical assistance to the DGPDIA   Assistance in management and control.  TOR for the assistance to DGPDIA have been
prepared but no further action taken, as this
assistance is not needed any more.
Project accounts and auditing      Government to maintain separate project    All annual OMV's/CRDA accounts being on
accounts and let them be audited.      time.
Studies                            Technical studies on water management in   All studies have been commissioned.
OMVVM (2), lendouba (1), Lakmes (2), and
Nabeul (1).
- 21 -



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operaftio
(Not identified at appaisal)
Table 7a: Studies Included In the Project
Study                 Purpose as defned t     |        Status         Impact of study
appraisdl
MEDJERDAH
1. Irrigation pilot   To design a pilot sector   Completed            No follow-up, as it was
sector             to test alternative water                       considered that sufficient
distribution systems.                           data were available.
2. Water flow         To better manage the     Limited to the main   Installation of a remote
monitoring         water resource in the    conveyor and related   control/command system.
system             perimeter.               pumping stations.
3. Sediment load      To monitor the           Completed              Sedimentation could be
sedimentation process                           reduced by a proper canal
in the canals.                                  operation.
JENDOUBA
Irrigation network    To test the adequacy of   Completed             Led to too costly devices
management            existing automatic                              beyond available budgets.
regulation devices.
NABEUL
Irrigation network    To assess the capacity   Completed              Diagnosis used for
management            and operating efficiency                        equipment rehabilitation;
of existing networks.                           proposed regulation
system too costly.
SILIANA
1. Flood protection   To protect the irrigation   Completed           Protection works
perimeter against                               implemented under other
frequent flooding.                              financing.
2. Irrigation         To test the adequacy of   Completed             Automatic devices now
network            existing regulation                             being installed.
management         devices.
- 22 -



Table 7b. Inventory of Studies Undertaken
NETWORK
Operation and maintenance of low pressure irrigation systems (2T)
Operation and maintenance of gravity irrigation networks (3T)
Maintenance of water transport networks under high sediment conditions
PUMPING STATIONS
Operation and maintenance of tubewell pumping stations (3T)
Operation and maintenance of non-tubewell pumping stations
Awareness-building for rehabilitation
Aide-memoire on updating of legislation
Methodology for the identification and specification of rehabilitation works
Methodology of activities for rehabilitation, modernization, operation and maintenance
Rehabilitation of pumping stations: definition, scope of intervention, identification, planning
Manual of rehabilitation for pumping stations: structural methodology with an example
Awareness-building for maintenance
Awareness-building for structured maintenance (Sidi Saad)
Awareness-building for structured maintenance (Testour)
Presentation of the management and operation of a tubewell
Methodology for on-site materials management (stations)
Key monitoring points in pump installations
Conception, realization and operation of pumping stations
Diagnostic, study of norms and rationalization of pumping stations
Maintenance of electric equipment
- 23 -



Table 8a. Project Costs
(US$'000)
SAR Estimate                   Actual Estimate
Local      Foreign    Total    local     Foreign     Total
Investment Costs
Civil works
buildings (workshops)      152.6      79.2    231.8       39.1       38.3       77.4
stock pipes/flumes        1354.3    437.1    1791.4    1697.8    1845.0       3542.9
pilot irrig. scheme       1943.5    1899.9   3843.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
Equipment for irrig. O&M
vehicles                  1475.5    1531.5   3007.0    883.7       1088.3     1972.0
heavy equipment           1622.1    2364.9   3987.0   1543.5    2134.1        3677.6
materials                  611.2    898.0   1509.2   1219.6    1764.3         2983.8
spare parts               1308.9   2318.6   3627.5    903.3        1712.2     2615.5
workshop equipment         310.5    374.0    684.5        78.3      140.3      218.6
Other equipment
radio equipment            239.4    234.2    473.6    215.2         688.7      903.9
computer equipment         692.3    827.1    1519.4      194.6      355.0      549.5
Studies and supervision     586.9    570.4   1157.3       179.3     572.9       752.2
Maintenance contracts      1789.3    1743.9   3533.2   3196.7    6661.7        9858.4
Technical assist./training  985.8   2034.5   3020.3         0.0    3292.3      3292.3
Total Investment Costs    13072.3   15313.3  28385.6   10151.1   20293.0    30444.1
Recurrent Costs
Personnel                  983.5       0.0    983.5      870.0        0.0      870.0
O&M                      13500.8   8955.8  22456.6   6573.0           0.0     6573.0
Total Recurrent Costs     14484.3    8955.8  23440.1   7443.0          0.0     7443.0
GRAND TOTAL               27556.6  24269.1  51825.7   17594.1   20293.0    37887.1
NB.: See Appendix 1 for explanation of the working assumptions.
- 24 -



Table 8b. Project Financing
(US$ million)
SAR Estimate              Actual Estimate
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
World Bank ^'         0.0       22.0   22.0      0.0      17.0    17.0
EC                    0.0        2.4    2.4      0.0       3.3      3.3
Government           27.6        0.0   27.6      17.6      0.0    17.6
Total Project Costs   27.6      24.4   52.0     17.6      20.3    37.9
2' The World Bank loan was reduced by $5 million to $ 17 million as of 6/28/90.
N.B.: It as assumed in SAR that on-farm development ($9.2 million) was going to be financed half by beneficiaries
and half through credit institutions. The lack of monitoring prevents any reasonable estimate of this financing (see
Appendix 1).
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits
The lack of proper monitoring/evaluation prevents the calculation of a detailed ERR for this project. The proper
calculation of an ERR for this project would be impractical for at least three reasons:
i)  the project was in fact a national programme composed (mostly) of multiple/routine investments in
rehabilitation, scattered all over the country. Whatever improvements took place in the fields are
normally due to a number of (past and ongoing) projects, of which IMIP was only one in any given area;
ii) there was no proper monitoring/evaluation system set up so that no quantified information exists on IMIP
precise impact, particularly in agricultural development;
iii) the recurrent costs, accounting for almost half the total project costs, cannot be accurately estimated
because of the lack of monitoring.
However, the quantifiable evidence available to the mission suggests that this rate, over a period of 20 years, would
be favorable; i.e. above the standard discount/cut-off rate of 10%, although perhaps not as high as the 30% estimate
in the SAR (see Appendix 1).
- 25 -



TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMEENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(September 1995)
Table 10. Status of Legal Covenants
Overall Project Rating: I
Agree-   Section    Type Status  Original   Revised  Description of Covenants               Comments
ment                      1/      Date      Date
Loan     3.01(b)(ii) M    C                           Govt. to furnish to WB annual         Being done for each CRDA and for
2573-                                                 development operating plans & budget  the project as a whole, but focussing
TUN                                                   for the project and OMVs.             on budgetary aspects only.
3.01(b)iii  F   C       -                   OMVs to make separate provisions in   Being done within the CRDAs
their budgets for allocation of funds for context.
different activities.
3.01(b)iv  M    C       -                   Govt. to maintain a deputy director in   The director took over the deputy
DCOMVPI as project manager.          director functions.
3.02(b)    M    C       -         -         Govt. to maintain a Coordination and   Last meeting May 1990. CMC has
Monitoring Committee (CMC).          never been formally operational but
coordination meetings have taken
place.
3.04      M     C       -         -         Govt. to employ counterpart staff to  Done for the DCOMVPI; in
consultants for DCOMVPI and           DGPDIA, not applicable any longer,
DGPDIA.                               after the MOA reform.
3.05      M     C       -          -        Govt. to employ consultants to assist in  TA financed by European Community.
carrying part C of the project
(Technical
assistance).
3.06(a)    M     CP    09130/86  -          OMVs to furnish draft medium-term     Started with OMVVM  but stopped
development plans and for OMVVM,   because of the MA reform; being
OMIVAK and OMVGJ their program-  prepared for CRDA regional programs
contracts.                           (VUI Dev. Plan); recommended to be
detailed annually.
3.06(b)    M     CP     03/31187  -         OMVs to finalize such plans and       Not applicable; see 3.06(a).
program-contracts.
3.07(i)    M    C       -          -        Govt. to authorize OMVs (except       Application decree published;
OMVGD and OMVGM) to adopt            but not used so far.
binomial water rate structure.
3.07(ii)    F   C       01/01/95   -        Govt. to take measures to reach in each Good progress (Appendix 1, para 5)
OMV (except OMIVAK, ODTC,            To be further monitored by the ASIL.
OMVSB, OMVs) full cost recovery of
O&M costs.
3.07(ii)    F   CD      -          -        Govt. to apply water rate increase of    On average OK, but in certain
9% year.                             CRDAs increase is lower than 9%.
3.08      M      CP     12/31/85   -        OMVVM  to adopt binomial water rate  See 3.07(i).
structure.
3.08      M     CP    06/30/86   -          OMVGJ to adopt binomial water rate   See 3.07(i).
structure.
3.09      M      C      12/31/85   -        Govt. to take measures to decentralize   New legislation published in 1988, up-
operation of AIC.                    dated in 1992.
3.10      M     C       12/31/87  -         Govt. to establish legal framework for   Same as above.
creation and organization of WUAs.
- 26 -



Agree-   Section    Type Status  Original   Revised  Description of Covenants               Comments
ment                              Date      Date
Loan     3.11 (b)(i)  M   C       06/30/88  09/89    Govt. to prepare a report reviewing    Done.
2573-                                                 overall project performance.
TUN
3.11(b)(ii) M    C      12/31/88   12/89    Govt. and Bank to undertake a mid-term  Done.
project review.
3.12      F      CP     12/31/85   -        Govt. to issue a circular to OMVs     Prepared but never formally imposed;
describing new accounting principles.    it has been agreed that cash accounting
systems would be set up in the CRDAs.
4.01(b)    F     C      -         -         Govt. to maintain accounts of the project Done.
and let these be audited.
4.01(c)    F     C      -          -        Govt. to maintain separate accounts and  Done.
audit of statement of expenditures.
4.01      F      C      06/30      -        OMVs have their financial statements    From 1990 onwards, only global
audited annually.                    project accounts have been audited
since the OMVs merged in CRDAs.
5.02      F      C      -          -        OMVs to make separate provision in    See 3.01(b)(iii).
their budgets for O&M, commercial and
public services.
4.11(b)    M     C      -          -        DCOMVPI to employ consultants for    Done for DCOMVPI; for DGPDIA see
DGPDIA and DCOMVPI (see 3.04).    3.04.
Sch.5(l)   M     C      03/31/86   -        DCOMVPI to prepare designs for        Done.
OMVVM networks.
Sch.5(2)   T     C      06/30/86   -        DCOMVPI to prepare TOR and BD for  Done.
water management studies.
Sch.5(3)   T     C      06/30/86   -        DCOMVPI to prepare designs and BD    Done.
for flow monitoring system and pilot
irrigation sector.
Sch.5(4)   T     C      12/31/85   -        DCOMVPI to prepare draft contract     Done.
between OMVGJ and CRGRIINRAT for
monitoring water saving technologies.
Sch.5(5)   F     NC    04/30/86   -         OMVs to inform on their opening       Not applicable because of the MOA
financial statements.                reform.
Sch.5(6)   M     CP     12/31/86   -        OMVVM, OMIVAK, OMVGJ to have   Process halted due to the MOA reform;
their MIS operational.               studies prepared for CRDAs of
ARIANA and KAIROUAN (ex-
OMVVM and OMIVAK).
Sch.5(7)1  M     NC    06/30/87  -          Other OMVs to have their MIS          Same as above.
operational.
- 27 -



Agree-   Section    Type Status  Original   Revised  Description of Covenants            Comments
ment                             Date      Date
Loan     Sch.5(8)  F     NC    06130/86  -          OMVVM, OMIVAK and OMVGJ              The same as Sch.S(6).
2573-                                               recruit financial specialists.
TUN
Sch.5(9)  M     C      12/31/88  -         OMVs to charge full cost of commercial Done.
services provided to farmers.
Sch.5(10) M     C      -          -        DCOMVPI to prepare semi-annual       Reports submitted.
progress reports.
Sch.5(1 1) M    NC    -           -        DPSAE to prepare annual reports on   Not applicable any longer due to the
OMVs' performance.                  MOA reform.
1/ Covenant compliance C: complied - CD: after delay - CP: partially - NC: not complied with.
- 28 -



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OM Statement Number                       Lack of Compliance
and Title
BP 6.50:                Not considered during project appraisal.
Disbursement Profiles
OD 10.70: Project       Lack of retroactive application. OD 10.70 was issued in
Monitoring and Evaluation  1989, after effectiveness of the project.
Table 12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                    Revised                    Actual
project cycle          Weeks          US$         Weeks          USS         Weeks         USS
Through appraisal                                                                      152.4
Appraisal Effectiveness                                                                 63.2
Supervision                                                                             58.8
Completion                         8.0                                                   8.0
TOTAL                                                                                282.4
- 29 -



Table 13. Bank Resources: Missions
Performance raing
Number                       Specialized     Implemen-    Develop-ment
Stage of               Month/              of          Days in        staff skills     tation        objectives      Types of
project cycle             year            persons          field       represented        Status                       problems
Through appraisal       June 82-Sept. 84
Appraisal - Board        Sept. 84-June 85        7              20          En,Ec,FA
Board - effectiveness    June 85-July 86
Supervions               Sept.85-June 95
SPN I                       Sept. 85             2               6            Ec,FA             2              1               M
SPN 2                      October 86            I              18              En              I               I
Up-date                     March 87                                                                                           M 2  2  M
SPN 3                        May 87                      _ _____En_ 2_ _                                                       M
SPN 4                      October 87            I              18              En              2              l
SPN 5                       April 88                                      _ _17_En_2__                                        M
SPN 6                     November 88                                                                                          M 18  En  2  I  M
SPN 7                        May 89          _                  7               En              2              2               M
SPN 8                     November 89                                                                                         M 10  En  2  2  M
Mid-Term Review
SPN 9                       May 90                       __7 En                                 2              2              M
SPN 10                    November 90            l              4              En               2              2              M
SPN 11                       June 91                            5               En          2 (cov.3)          2               M
SPN 12                      March 92             I              6               En              2              2               M
SPN 13                     October 93                                           En
Up-date                    September 94          I                              En              I              I
Up-date                     June 95               1                             En              I              I
Completion report         September 95           2____En,Ec
N.B.       Ec =  Economist. En =  Engineer. FA  -  Financial Analyst.
I =  satisfactory. 2 =  some problems. 3 = deficient.
M  = management.
- 30 -



TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
APPENDIX 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS






Appendix 1
Financial and Economic Analysis
Project Costs
1. The lack of a proper M&E system during project execution prevents an accurate estimate of the
actual project costs. The actual investment costs are derived from Annex 9 of the "Rapport Final"
(August 95), produced by the Direction Generale du Genie Rural DGR of the Ministry of
Agriculture. It is assumed that all expenses classified as "budget" in Annex 9 are in local currency
and those "hors budget" in foreign exchange. The conversion from dinars to dollars is based on a
weighted average exchange rate" of TDO.92 = US$1 in the case of local currency and TDO.94 =
US$1 in the case of foreign exchange. The pilot irrigation scheme was cancelled early in project
execution. The technical assistance/training is still being carried out, until February 1996, under an
EC grant of ECU 2.66 million (in two parts). This was converted in dollars using an annually
weighted average exchange rate of ECUl = US$ 1.237.
2. The recurrent costs are composed of incremental personnel and O&M on vehicles and
equipment. The estimate for the personnel was converted in dollars at the weighted exchange rate
for local currency, as mentioned above. The financing of the O&M comes from two sources: "Titre
1 (Budget de fonctionnement) et Titre 2 (Budget d'investissement)". Titre 2 is given in Annex 9 of
the Rapport Final (TD 1.68 million). Titre 1 financing could not be directly ascertained because the
incremental operating costs for the project were not recorded separately (they are included in the
ministry's general operating expenses). A second-best estimate was made of all the likely operating
costs (using standard rules of operation) for all the vehicles and equipment acquired under the
project. It must be pointed out that this estimate is certainly a minimum, as it does not reflect
numerous routine expenses made by the DGR for interventions not envisaged in the SAR but
necessary to a good execution of the project. As a result, the current estimate of the actual recurrent
cost - projected at close to half of the total project costs at appraisal - must be taken as indicative
only.
3. Furthermore, it was assumed in the SAR that on-farm development (US$9.2 million) was going
to be financed half by the beneficiaries and half through credit institutions. Although it is visible that
some on-farm development has taken place in the various areas covered by the project, it is
practically impossible to reconstruct the financing of it, without undertaking a laborious data
collection exercise. The situation is complicated by the fact that no formal arrangements were
worked out between the project's executing agency and the credit institutions, so that no special
provisions for the project were made by them.
Weighted by the relative importance of the annual disbursement amounts. The exchange rate varied from
TDO.83 = US$1 in 1987 to TD1.1 = US$1 in 1994 and to TDO.75 = US$1 in May 1995.



Financial Analysis
4. One of the loan covenants was that the fees charged to farmers for irrigation water were to be
increased by an average of 9% per year in constant terms (after inflation). Appendix Table 1"
illustrates the evolution of the fees by CRDA and over the project period. In constant terms, the
average annual increase rate varies from 11 % in Jendouba to 1 % in Nabeul. Appendix Table 2
shows that the overall average for all CRDAs is of 7.4% when weighted by the respective
consumption volumes of water by CRDA. This average is satisfactory considering the institutional
difficulties experienced during project execution, and compared to similar situations in other
developing countries. It must also be pointed out that the basis for setting the level at a target of 9%
is not clearly explained in the SAR and was perhaps over-optimistic.
5. Appendix Table 3 compares the fees for 1994, by CRDA, to the direct costs for the CRDAs of
delivering the water. The coverage of the costs by the fees varies from 51% in the case of Kasserine
to 184% in the case of Siliana. Weighted by the 1994 consumption volumes, the overall average for
all CRDAs is 106%. This result must be interpreted with caution. 1994 was a year of high demand
for irrigation water (low rainfall). Some of the direct costs are not fully variable in the sense that
they do not decrease proportionately with a lowering of the consumption; example, personnel (see
Annex 7-a of Rapport Final). Therefore, economies of scale were gained in 1994 which would not
necessarily exist at lower levels of water consumption. Nevertheless, it has been demonstrated that
already at this point in time, the fees can cover the related direct costs under favorable
circumstances.
6. Appendix Table 4 illustrate farm budgets in the four CRDAs selected by the ICR mission for
their irrigation system and agronomic representativeness; Nabeul, Ariana, Kairouan and Kebili.
Only the most important farm budget for each of these CRDA - in terms of area covered - was
used. Furthermore, only the situation before the project (1985/86) and now (1994/95) could be
illustrated, admittedly a second-best to a with/without scenario. The "before project" situation is
directly taken from the SAR presentation of these farm budgets. Because of the restructuring of the
Ministry of Agriculture in 1989, and the fact that records were not well kept previously, few people
can accurately describe the 1986 farm budgets. The farm budget details for the actual situation were
provided for this report by CRDA staff, in some cases on the basis of quick field surveys. The
actual figures are presented in both 1986 and 1995 dinars, with the former related to the latter by
the CPI2'.
7. A brief description of the four farm models is as follows: (i) Nabeul - Farm of 2 ha. Located
in the citrus production zone, this model represents more than half the holdings and more than
three-quarters of the irrigable areas in the CRDA. Farming is labor-intensive (also partly
mechanized) and the main production is citrus as a cash crop; (ii) Ariana - Farm of 6 ha. The
model represents more than half the holdings in irrigable areas. Crop production is mainly
"'  The tables are in French because most were prepared in the country.
21   CPI ranges from 7.2% in 1987 to 4.5% in 1994, 1995 estimate is 5%.
- 33 -



TUNISIA: Irrigation Management Improvement Project
Appendix 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
vegetables and fruits, and the presence of livestock around the homesteads results in heavy use of
manure for fertilizers; (iii) Kairouan - Farm of 1.8 ha. This model is representative of small-scale
farming in the south of Kairouan. Horticulture predominates and is very labor-intensive. Some
cereals (mainly wheat) are also cultivated for home consumption; and (iv) Kebili - Farm of 0.6 ha.
Representative of progressive farmers of the region, who achieve nearly 100% cropping intensity.
Outputs are dates, fruits and vegetables. As in Kairouan, it is a labor-intensive fanning system.
8. Although very crude, the financial results still allow for some general observations. Except in
the case of Nabeul where citrus fruit is grown, there is no evidence that better water supply has
always resulted in a more intensive use of inputs. This coincides with the mission's impression,
from the field visits, that the lack of suitable credit is a serious obstacle to an intensive use of
inputs, apart from the cases when high-value cash crops can generate sufficient cash flows. On the
other hand, it seems that - generally speaking - the farmers can pay higher water fees" and still make
more profits, because of the resulting better (and more stable) yields. There is also anecdotal
evidence that farmers are increasingly paying attention to the use of the water as it is becoming
more expensive. But the efficiency rate of the water use (to the plant in the field) is reportedly no
more than 50% in some locations. This suggests that a lot of benefits could be gained from simply
investing in the development/extension of improved irrigation cropping techniques.
Economic Analysis
9. The project's benefits are principally in institutional terms; ie. the introduction of new/improved
approaches and methodologies for the operation/maintenance (and its financing) of the irrigation
infrastructures. It would be practically impossible to calculate an ERR for the project as a whole, or
even in the case of each CRDA, for at least three reasons. First, the project was in fact a national
program composed (mostly) of multiple/punctual investments in rehabilitation, scattered all over the
country. Whatever improvements took place in the fields are normally due to a number of (past and
ongoing) projects, of which the current project was only one in any given area. Second, there was
no proper monitoring/evaluation system set up so that no quantified information exists on the
project's precise impact, particularly in agricultural development2'. Third, the Ministry' staff
responsible for agricultural production was not directly involved in the project's execution so that
very little information can be obtained from them for the purpose of reconstructing the situation
"with project". Even the project's command areas are difficult to define.
The model for Kebili seems to be an exception but this result may be due to some questionable figures in the
SAR's "before project" analysis.
2/    Moreover, as mentioned in para. 2, even the project recurrent costs (half the total costs at appraisal) cannot be
accurately estimated.
- 34 -



TUNISIA: Irrigation Management Improvement Project
Appendix 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
10.      Nevertheless, Appendix Table 5 attempts to illustrate the project's possible benefits in
terms of overall revenues, at the farmers' level, by CRDA. The working assumptions have been
formulated with the Ministry' staff responsible for agricultural statistics in each CRDA. The
financial revenues are a summation of areas (ha) multiplied by the relevant net revenues per ha (in
1995 dinars), as found in Appendix Tables 4; for instance, TD 5.31 million for Nabeul. Then, an
annual investment cost (in 1995 dinars) is derived from the total investment costs for each CRDA,
using an average investment period of seven years by CRDA; for instance, TD 0.42 million for
Nabeul. From a comparison of these simple results (see Appendix Table 5, page 2), two general
observations can be made. First, other things being equals, the ERR in the case of each CRDA is
likely to be favorable over of period of around twenty years", given the size of the annual revenues
(presumably over 10-to-15 years) compared to the annual investment costs (over a maximum of
seven years)v. Assuming that the four CRDAs are representative, it could be inferred that any
overall ERR for the project would also be favorable. Second, the rate of return would be higher in
areas, such as Nabeul, where there are more high-value cash crops. This is illustrated by the fact
that the revenues/costs ratio is 12.6 for Nabeul and only 2.4 for Kairouan.
"    Note that only nine years have elapsed since project start. ERR will probably be above a discount/cut-off rate of
10%, although perhaps not as much as estimated at appraisal in all farm models (ranging from 19.6% to 36.4%).
The recurrent costs after investment are not included in the present calculations.
21    Any shadow-pricing, to convert in economic values, would have a minimal effect on the overall result since the
currency has been almost free-floating and manual labour is relatively scarce, particularly in cash crops areas.
- 35 -



Appendix 1
Table I
Evolution of Irrigation Tariffs
Irrigation Tariffs (millimes/m3)             Annual Growth Rate (%) 1988-94
CRDA          1998    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    Current   CPI (%)       Constant
Tunis/Ariana    27.0    30.0    33.0    38.0    44.0    51.0    60.0      14         6           8
Ben Arous     41.0    42.0    45.0    50.0    58.0    60.0    62.0        7          6           1
Nabeul        34.0    34.0    37.0    45.0    47.0    50.0    50.0        7          6           1
Bizerte       27.0    30.0    33.0    38.0    44.0    51.0    60.0        14         6           8
Beja          27.0    30.0    33.0    50.0    56.0    59.0    62.0        16         6           10
Jendouba      24.0    26.0    30.0    58.0    58.0    58.0    48.0        17         6           11
Siliana       26.0    28.0    32.0    39.0    46.0    49.0    57.0        14         6           8
Sousse        30.0    33.0    38.0    43.0    50.0    58.0    66.0        14         6           8
Monastir      30.0    33.0    38.0    43.0    50.0    58.0    68.0        15         6           9
Mahdia        30.0    33.0    38.0    43.0    50.0    58.0    70.0        15         6           9
Kairouan      23.0    26.0    30.0    34.0    40.0    46.0    50.0        14         6           8
Kasserine     23.0    23.0    25.0    27.0    30.0    38.0    36.0        8          6           2
Sidi Bouzid   24.0    26.0    28.0    33.0    38.0    42.0    42.0        10         6           4
Gafsa          12.0    14.0    14.0    18.0    20.0    20.0    20.0       9          6           3
Tozeur         12.0    14.0    14.0    18.0    20.0    22.0    24.0       13         6           7
Kebili         17.0    19.0    19.0    19.0    23.0    27.0    33.0       12         6           6
Source: Rapport final de la Direction Gen6rale du Genie Rural, Ministere de l'Agriculture.
N.B. Only those CRDAs are included which are involved in water delivery at the retail level; user groups are directly responsible
for rate setting elsewhere.
- 36 -



Appendix 1
Table 2
Evolution of irrigation water use, CRDAs
Water use (millions of m3)
CRDA            1990    1991    1992     1993      1994       1990-94    %total     Weighted
Growth Rate 
Tunis/Ariana    40.6   40.8    39.0       50.0       62.4       232.8    0.186         1.5
Ben Arous        2.8    2.5      1.4       2.2        3.6        12.5    0.010         0.0
Nabeul          26.5   26.2    24.6       32.1       34.6       144.0    0.115         0.1
Bizerte          6.4    6.4      7.2      10.2       15.5        45.7    0.037         0.3
Beja            11.5   11.0    11.3       13.3       26.9        74.0    0.059         0.6
Jendouba        53.0   38.3    36.6       57.0       72.3       257.2    0.206         2.3
Siliana          4.1    4.1    11.2       11.2       12.6        43.2    0.035         0.3
Sousse           2.8    3.2      2.9       2.5        3.4        14.8    0.012         0.1
Monastir         4.1    4.1      4.2       4.4        4.6        21.4    0.017         0.2
Mahdia           1.8    2.0      1.9       1.9        2.2         9.8    0.008         0.1
Kairouan         9.9   10.9      9.9      10.4       17.2        58.3    0.047         0.4
Kasserine        4.0    4.0      4.3       4.9        6.7        23.9    0.019         0.0
Sidi Bouzid      2.4    2.6      2.5       2.7        3.6        13.8    0.011         0.0
Gafsa            2.2    7.0      6.8       8.3        8.7        33.0    0.026         0.1
Tozeur          83.5   92.4    28.6       15.8       16.0       236.3    0.189         1.3
Kebili           7.6    8.7      4.3       4.2        3.7        28.5    0.023         0.1
Total          263.2  264.2   196.7    231.1        294.0      1249.2      1           7.4
" Weighted growth of irrigation water use.
- 37 -



Appendix 1
Table 3
Direct Cost Recovery, 1994
CRDA           Tariff   Costs (direct)  % Recovery    Water use (m3)    % total    Weithted
mill./m3    mill./m3                                            Recovery %
TunislAriana     60         61              98%             62.4       21.2          20.9
Ben Arous        62         61             102%              3.6        1.2           1.2
Nabeul           50         68              74%             34.6       11.8           8.7
Bizerte         60          56             107%              15.5       5.3          5.6
Beja            62          58             107%             26.9        9.1           9.8
Jendouba         48         35             137%              72.3      24.6          33.7
Siliana         57          31             184%              12.6       4.3          7.9
Sousse           66         96              69%              3.4        1.2          0.8
Monastir        68          54             126%              4.6        1.6           1.9
Mahdia           70         105             67%              2.2        0.7          0.5
Kairouan         50         49             102%              17.2       5.9          5.9
Kasserine        36         70              51%               6.7       2.3           1.2
Sidi Bouzid     42          68              62%              3.6        1.2          0.8
Gafsa            20         35              57%              8.7        2.9           1.7
Tozeur           24         30              80%              16.0       5.4          4.4
Kebili           33         54              61%              3.7        1.3          0.8
Total                                                      294.0        100%         106%
- 38 -



Appendix 1
Table 4 Page 1
MODEL FARM BUDGETS
Nabeul    Budget for 2 HA
Without Project    With
Proiect
(in dinars of)
Costs                1986     1995       1995    Details
fertilizer         224      364         1360     2t N, 400 kg P, 600 kg de K, 20t manure
pest control       60       98          300
mechanized ops.    64        104       800      100hr rental
labor              325      528        2000    5D per day
water              115       187        1120    Average of 80 mill per m3
Total Costs          788      1281       5580
Revenues
citrus             3600     5854        12500   25t/ha A 25OD/t, 2ba
Net Revenues         2812     4573       6920
Per Ha               1406     2286       3460
Ariana    Budget for 6 ha
Without Proiect    With
(in dinars of)
Costs                1986     1995       1995    Details
fertilizer         340      553        395     ammonitre, I quintal Super 16
pesticides         284      462        350
seeds              278      452        200      8 quintaux (barley, hard/soft wheat)
mechanized ops.    169      275        368
animal traction    112      182        1S0
labor              1260     2049       550      5D/day
water              271      441        966      69mil/m3
Total Costs          2714     4143       2979
Revenues
winter vegetables    890     1447       2231    artichokess, 5t/ha, 525 dlt
summer vegetable    1872    3044       2000    iha, tintes, 25/ha, 80d/t
cereals            150      244        655      0.9ha, hard wheat, 28q/ha, 26dlq
industrial crops   0        0          342      0.20ha, sugar beets, 45/ha, 38dlt
tree crops         1910     3106       7020    1.80 ha, apples, 6t/ha, 650 d/t
Total Revenues       4822     7841       12248
Net Revenues         2108     3428       9269
Per Ha               351      571        1545
N.B.: Net revenues in 1986 dinars are converted into 1995 dinars by inflating the 1986 values by 1.626 which is
the equivalent of the CPI increase between 1986 et 1995.
- 39 -



Table SPage 2
MODEL FARM BUDGETS
KairouaD    Budget of 1.8 HA
Without Proiect   With
Proect
(in dinars of)
Costs                1986    1995        1995       Deals
N                   15      24         80
P                   8       13         41
K                   0       0          10
manure              72      117        53
pest control        16      26         30
seed                88      143        187
mechanized ops.     66      107        240
animal traction     37      60         10
labor               436     709        396
water               53      86         306
Total Costs          791      1286       1353
Revenues
winter vegetables   298     485        234        0.1 ha, green beans, 9t/ha, 260d/t
summer vegetables   624     1015       1400       0.7ha, pepper, gt/ha, 25d/t
cereals             58      94         405        0.6ha, hard wheat, 2 q/ha, 25d/q
tree crops          334     543        225        0.3ha, apricot, 3t/ha, 250d/t
Tintnl R2evpmsPc     lwIA    21,47       ?17"
Net Revenues         523     851         911
Per Ha               290     472        506
Kebili      Budget of 0.6 ha
Without Proiect   With
Piu-ct
(in dinars of)
Costs                1986    1995        1995       Details
N                  7       11          14
p                  4       7          7
K                   1       2          2
manure              38      62         40
pest control        7       11         15
seed                40      65         80
mechanized ops.     22      36         30
animal traction     18      29         21
labor               206     335        260
water               82      133        120
Total Costs          425     691         589
Revenues
winter vegetables   116     189        300        0.25ha, carrots, 15t/ha, lOOd/t
summer vegetables   217     353        540        0.30ha, onions, 12t/ha, 150d/t
industrial crops    25      41         25         insignificant
tree crops          175     285        135        30 plants, 15kg/plant, 3d/kg
dates               235     382        450        60 plants, 5kg/plant, 1.5d/kg
Total Revenues       768     1249        1450
Net Revenues         343     558         861
Per Ha               572     930         1435
_40 -



REVENUES (FINANCIAL) DUE TO THE PROJECT                                       Appendix 1
FOR FOUR CRDAs (in dinars)                                               Table 5, page 1
Nabeul - Working Hypotheses
- 10,350 ha irrigated at the project start in 1986; 11,000 ha in 1995
- without the project, 3,000 ha would have been removed from production, due mainly to
salinization
7,350 ha would have remained, with no yield increase
650 ha would not have been planted starting in 1986
- the Project contributed to at least 25% of these benefits"
Revenues:(3000 x 3460)+(7350 x 1174)+(650 x 3460)=21,257,900 x 25% = 5,314,475 DT
Ariana - Working Hypotheses
- 14,000 ha irrigated at the Project start in 1986; 18,000 ha in 1995
- with the Project, a yield increase on 14,000 ha
entry into production of an additional 4,000 ha, also with yield increase
- the Project contributed to at least 25% of these benefits
Revenues:(14000 x 974)+(4000 x 1545)=19,816,000 x 25% = 4,954,000 DT
Kairouan - Working Hypotheses
- 4,000 ha of small-scale irrigation perimeters in 1986; 10,000 ha in 1994
- without the Project, 1,000 ha would have been taken out of production
3,000 ha would have remained without yield increase
6,000 ha would not have been planted from 1986
- the Project contributed to at least 25% of these benefits
Revenues:(1000 x 506)+(3000 x 34)+(6000 X 506) = 3,644,000 x 25% = 911,000DT
Kebili - Working Hypotheses
- the total area under small-scale irrigation is 7,500 ha
- a yield increase over the total area results in revenues of 3,787,500DT (7500 x 505)
- the Project contributed at least 25% of these benefits, thus 946,875DT
Le niveau de 25 % est certainement un strict minimum dans tous les cas. On peut donc inf6rer que les r6sultats
obtenus sont aussi un minimum.
- 41 -



Appendix 1
Table 5, page 2
Comparison of investment costs and annual revenues
(million DT)
Investment Costs "                    Financial Revenues 21   Revenues/Costs
CRDA                    Total                     Ann. Ave.             Annual               Ratio
(Dinars, current)  (Dinars, 199531)  (Dinars, 1995)       (Dinars, 1995)
Nabeul         2,46               2,96              0,42                 5,31                     12,6
Ariana         8,68              10,45              1,49                 4,95                      3,3
Kairouan       2,23               2,68              0,38                 0,91                      2,4
Kebili         0,33               0,40              0,06                 0,95                     15,8
Includes recurrent costs, MOA Title 2 budget. See Annex 9 of Rapport Final, MOA.
21 Estimated for IMIP project areas at project maturity. See Table 5 page 1.
3' Investment costs in current dinars are converted to 1995 dinars using an estimated factor of 1.204 which is
related to the CPI; it is an approximation since costs by CRDA are not available on an annual basis.
- 42 -



Appendix 2
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
DIRECTORATE OF RURAL ENGINEERING
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2573-TUN)
FINAL REPORT
SUMMARY'
1/ This appendix is a translation of the summary from the Ministry of Agriculture's Final
Report dated August 1995.



Appendix 2
Page 2 of 10
MAIN REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY - GENERAL CONCLUSIONS OF THE PROJECT'S FINAL EVALUATION
1.    Project Evolution
2.    Investment Components
3.    Studies and Technical Assistance
4.    Institutional Reforms
5.    Reforms Promoted by the Project
6.    Constraints and Achievements of the Project
I.    INTRODUCTION
II.    OVERVIEW OF THE PROJECT
1.    Title
2.    Locale
3.    Project Administration
4.    Project Length
5.    Beneficiaries
6.    Project Costs
7.    Project Objectives
8.    Project Components
8.1.  Investments
8.2.  Institutional Reforms
8.3.  Technical Assistance
8.4.  Farm Development
III.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PROJECT
IV.   REALIZATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Investments
1.    Buildings
2.    Spare Parts Security Stocks
3.    Test Sector
4.    Vehicles
5.    Heavy Equipment
6.    Other Equipment
7.    Spare Parts
8.    Workshop Equipment
9.    Workshop Communications Equipment



Appendix 2
Page 3 of 10
10.   Computers
11.   Maintenance Contracts
12.   Works
13.   Studies and Supervision
14.   Accounts and Management
Supporting Measures and Institutional Reforms
1.    Reorganization of CRDAs
2.    Irrigation Tariffs
2.1. Binomial Tariff
2.2.  Evolution of Water Tariffs
3.    Disengagement from Marketing Activities
4.    Users Associations
Technical Assistance
1.    Activities and Accomplishments in the First Phase
1.1.  Irrigation Network Component
1.2.  Hydro Electro-Mechanical Equipment
1.3.  Training Component
2.    Activities and Accomplishments in the First Phase
2.1.  Network Component
2.2.  Hydro Electro-Mechanical Equipment
2.3.  Training Component
3.    Future Program of Technical Assistance
V.   FINANCIAL SITUATION OF THE PROJECT
VI.   DIRECT RESULTS OF THE PROJECT
1.    Hydro Electro-Mechanical Equipment
2.    Irrigation Networks
3.    Training
4.    Strengthening of CRDAs
5.    Maintenance Investments



Appendix 2
Page 4 of 10
GENERAL CONCLUSIONS OF THE PROJECT'S FINAL EVALUATION
1)    Project Evolution
The Irrigation Management Improvement Project underwent, since the beginning of
implementation in 1986, several difficulties, in particular:
1-1 The capacity to supervise the various project activities by the Directorate of
Coordination of the Offices of Irrigation Production (DG/COMVPI) and by the Directorate
of Planning of Development and Agricultural Investments was relatively weak. The
monitoring unit for financial and technical progress created within the DG/COMVPI lacked
qualified personnel and counterparts for the technical specialists provided through European
Community co-financing (see Table 1).
The designation of counterparts within the OMVs compensated somewhat for this
central staffing deficiency, but the opportunity was still lost to reinforce capacity on the
central level of the Ministry of Agriculture with respect of management of irrigation
perimeters. This constraint was addressed from 1992, when responsibility for the Project
was transferred to the Directorate of Rural Engineering.
1-2   Reforms in the management procedures of the OMVs, recommended by the
Project and based on the commercial nature of management of these Offices, became
inapplicable upon integration of the OMVs into the administrative Regional Commissariats
for Agricultural Development(CRDAs): accounting principles, management structures,
business plans, organization by objectives for technical services, etc....
Moreover, the splitting of several OMVs among more than one CRDA resulted in the
loss of scale economies for some activities.
This organizational change had a negative impact on the pace of implementation of
the Project, particularly after 1889.
Subsequent reinforcement of the CRDAs, based on public budget resources, brought
some improvements in performance beginning in 1994, with respect to operations to repair
irrigation works and equipment, which had continued to expand since Project appraisal.
2)   Investment Components
For the investment component, commitments made by CRDAs through June 1994 are
estimated at 27.3 million dinars, of which 12.0 million dinars local finance and 15.3 million
dinars in foreign finance. Payments made before the closing date of the Loan (30 June 1995)
reached 26.3 million dinars, of which 11.0 million dinars in local finance and 15.3 million
dinars in foreign finance, or the equivalent of US$17 million.



Appendix 2
Page 5 of 10
2-1   Regarding equipment -- heavy equipment, vehicles, security spare parts and
pumps, radios, computers, etc. -- procurement was carried out as envisioned by the Project.
Nevertheless, some adaptations were necessary during implementation to adjust for the needs
of CRDAs.
It is noteworthy, in addition, that operational costs for the equipment, estimated
during appraisal at 6.2 million dinars, were not assured by the Ministry of Plan and Regional
Development (with the exception of about 2 million dinars total provided through the
investment budget for some CRDAs) or by the Ministry of Finance as part of the operational
budget for CRDAs.
This inadequate budgeting resulted in the reduction of efficiency in use of acquired
equipment a resulted in sporadic maintenance of works and pump equipment, according to
the budget means of the CRDAs.
2-2   The "maintenance contracts" component underwent a modification, with
significant expansion of the extent of works and financing. In became apparent from a
general diagnostic inventory that the rehabilitation of pumping stations, foreseen initially just
for the large stations of the irrigation perimeters of the Lower Medjerda, Lakhmes,
Ghardimaou and Nabeul, would need to be generalized to eventually include the 325
medium-scale tubewell pumps nation-wide. This was needed to assure conformity with
operational norms and standards for this additional category.
An important effort was made by the Project to rehabilitate these large- and medium-
scale pumps. In total, the rehabilitation included 168 tubewell pumps, 17 large-scale
pumping stations and 214 electric transformer stations.
2-3   The component for rehabilitation works and improvement of measurement and
automation of the irrigation perimeters managed by the CRDA of Ariana (ex-OMVVM)
comprised 32 percent of Project investments. The rehabilitation was carried out as planned
in the Project including, in particular, the irrigation and drainage networks and access roads.
In addition, rehabilitation was carried out for all the large pumping stations of the old
irrigation perimeter of the Lower Medjerda. A system for flow measurement, automation
and information transmission was installed for large canals and pumping stations of the
system, permitting modernization of perimeter management.
The important rehabilitation accomplished for the principle and secondary
infrastructure merits being extended to the tertiary system, however, because of the
deterioration of the prefabricated canals. Investment in automation and data transmission
needs to be more fully exploited and evaluated so that lessons can be drawn before
undertaking similar upgrading in other irrigation perimeters in the country.
2-4   The test sector of 500 hectares that was foreseen in the large irrigation



Appendix 2
Page 6 of 10
perimeter of the Lower Medjerda was not implemented, based on a decision taken by the
Project Implementation Unit in 1989. Nonetheless, the interest and value remains to
undertake this pilot to enable evaluation of different options available for modernizing this
older perimeter.
Modernization of the Utique and Lezdine sectors (3000 hectares in the Bizerte
Governorate) is being undertaken since 1994 with separate financing from the Agricultural
Sector Investment Loan, and will enable drawing some conclusions that will be of value
elsewhere in the Lower Medjerda.
Regarding experimentation on water savings techniques that had been foreseen in
oases in the Tozeur Governorate, in collaboration with the Research Center for Rural
Engineering, this was not conducted under satisfactory conditions. Nonetheless, various
trials carried out with farmers established the interest to extend lining of earthen tertiary
canals to improve the efficiency of water distribution in the oases.
3)    Studies and Technical Assistance
3-1   The five technical studies meant to address rehabilitation of the large pumping
stations, automation and prevention of sedimentation were carried out as planned.
These studies provided the basis for rehabilitation works or technical improvements in
the operation of pumping stations and principle infrastructure of several large irrigation
perimeters in the Lower Medjerda, Siliana and Nabeul.
The study regarding accounting practices and operational organization, planned
initially for the OMVVM and the OMVs of Kairouan and Gafsa-Jerid for subsequent
extension to other OMVs, was only partially carried out for the ex-OMVVM. The purpose
for the study was mostly lost when the OMVs were integrated into the new, administrative
CRDA structure, and the study was thus not completed.
Some of the preliminary conclusions of this partially completed study were taken up
under a subsequent study initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture in 1990 regarding the
reinforcement of management capacity of the CRDAs, but none of these conclusions proved
applicable.
Several elements related to the computerization of irrigation water sales and
commercial accounting were introduced in 1994 in the CRDAs of Bizerte and Ariana with
the support of technical assistance being provided to the irrigation perimeters of Ras Djebel
and the Lower Medjerda. Extension to other CRDAs will be determined once adequate
experience has been acquired in operating these pilots in the two CRDAs.
3-2   The first phase (1987-93) of technical assistance to the Project provided by



Appendix 2
Page 7 of 10
GERSAR under financing provided the European Community (1,984,000 Ecus) was not able
to reach all of its objectives. The poor leadership of the Project in the initial years seriously
disrupted the technical assistance component, in particular with the annulment in 1990 of all
technical assistance for the program of irrigation network maintenance.
An important efforts was made for the rehabilitation of pump stations through the
updating and application of norms and standards for pump equipment, the preparation of
standard bidding documents for procurement, and training of electrical and mechanical
technicians in the CRDAs.
A second phase of technical assistance was agreed by the European Union for 1994-
96 (680,000 Ecus), which has permitted completing the training of staff responsible for
operation and maintenance of various components of irrigation systems: network
rehabilitation, management techniques, preventive maintenance, etc.. Appendix 2, Table 2
provides an inventory of all training and related documentation provided under the technical
assistance component.
The impact of the technical assistance component has been positive.
4)   Institutional Reforms
During Project implementation, the irrigation sector has undergone fundamental
organizational and institutional reforms which were not foreseen during the preparation of the
Project. In particular:
*    Regional decentralization of agricultural services was implemented through the
disbanding in 1989 of the 13 OMVs, whose functions were partially integrated into 22
CRDAs, which were multi-objective and administrative structures.
*     Reforms carried out under the structural adjustment program and which
involved the withdrawal by the State from providing a range of agricultural services affected
the entire agricultural sector, including the irrigation sub-sector. It is important to note,
however, that several of the reforms involving withdrawal of the State from service provision
had been foreseen under the Project as a means to focus and improve management under the
ex-OMVs.
The application of this reform program was sudden, without adequate accompanying
measures to facilitate the transition for farmners and institutions involved.
In effect, the ex-OMVs had often operated in areas lacking various services needed
for the development of irrigated agriculture, and had undertaken to provide these services to
farmers, including some of a more conmmercial nature.



Appendix 2
Page 8 of 10
The rapid disengagement of the State as a consequence had a negative impact on the
operation of several irrigation perimeters only recently put into operation.
From another perspective, the reforms underway have unleashed a dynamic in the
large scale irrigated farms and in farming corporations in the large public irrigated
perimeters in the North, particularly with the leasing of State-owned farm enterprises.
Nevertheless, in aggregate, there has been a stagnation of intensification in the older
irrigation perimeters, and slower gains in irrigation efficacy in the newer perimeters.
The irrigation sub-sector thus finds itself marginalised within the overall priorities of
the CRDAs regarding agricultural development in their regions.
The management of irrigation water in the large irrigation perimeters remains under
the authority of the CRDAs, and was little affected in the short-run by the reorganization.
Nonetheless, the organization of irrigation, having shifted from structures with an orientation
of commercial viability to administrative structures, has not responded adequately to
opportunities to modernize its approaches and methods as will be necessary to survive under
increasing economic constraints.
5)    Planned Project Reforms - Substantial Evolution
5-1   Annual irrigation tariff increases were implemented by most CRDAs at a pace
generally in conformity with Project provisions (15 percent in nominal terms). Other Bank
projects -- the ASAL II and the ASIL -- have reinforced this policy objective, and a study
was initiated in 1995 under the ASIL to evaluate the financial management of water by
CRDAs and to guide future tariff policy.
Decree no. 91-1869 of 2 February 1991 approved a standard contract for delivery and
pricing of irrigation water between CRDAs and farmers and has introduced the possibility of
applying a binomial tariff in the future.
This binomial tariff, conceived for initial implementation in the large perimeters of
Ariana and Jendouba with the objective of promoting greater irrigation intensity, has yet to
be implemented for reasons related to the need to define specific implementation procedures,
to prepare farmer for these procedures, and because of operational constraints on its
introduction related to drought years when irrigation allocations are cut.
The general purpose of the Decree mentioned above was to clarify the relationship
between irrigation users and the CRDAs, while permitting the latter to standardize the
process of selling water to farmers.
5-2   The disengagement from commercial activities that had been undertaken by the



Appendix 2
Page 9 of 10
OMVs was particularly accelerated with the creation of the CRDAs (tractor services, milk
collection, cold storage, input supply). Equipment and physical structures have in many
cases been transferred or leased to cooperatives or service enterprises.
It is very difficult to evaluate at the present time the real impact of this accelerated
disengagement on intensification in irrigation perimeters, taking into consideration the
adaptive capacity of the farmers. A preliminary assessment permits, however, to identify the
following tendencies:
*     For some profitable activities, such as input supply, milk collection and cold
storage, the impact of disengagement by the CRDAs seems to have been largely positive.
The provision of these services by other public or private entities has occurred, in some
cases with explosive growth spurred by state support (case of milk collection).
*     Farm machinery activities specific to irrigated agriculture have deteriorated.
Some traditional operations are being provided by the private sector (e.g. hire services for
land preparation) while others are practically non-existent (land leveling).
*     Centers for technical support (Ariana, Nebhana, Nabeul, etc.), while not
commercial in objective, have been dismembered or have lost direction, and have lost all
direct relation to the irrigation sub-sector.
These tendencies notwithstanding, it is premature to judge the evolution of the
situation in new irrigation perimeters, which require more support than older perimeters
through intensive training and development of services.
5-3   Updating in 1989 of legal texts for irrigation users' associations (AICs) has
had a favorable impact on the extension of users' groups in irrigation perimeters. Most
public irrigation perimeters based on tubewell supply, typically of small or medium size, are
currently managed by AICs. The number of irrigation AICs have grown from 107 in 1989
to 501 in 1995. The creation of AICs has become routine for all irrigation perimeters that
depend on tubewells or hill dams for water supply, and the experience with pilot AICs in
some large-scale irrigation perimeters has permitted identification of constraints that could
block effective extension of user-based management in these systems. A long term effort in
promotion and training will be required to consolidate gains from the AIC movement.
54    Regarding water management by the CRDAs, a tendency towards sub-
contracting maintenance activities is evident in many CRDAs, especially for activities related
to rehabilitation of pump and hydro-mechanical equipment. Routine maintenance continues
to be assured largely by the CRDAs own staff.
The project resulted in a greater awareness by sub-contracting enterprises of the need
to adapt their means to the maintenance requirements and conditions of irrigation perimeters.



Appendix 2
Page 10 of 10
But more work in this regard is needed, particularly in the establishment of standard
contracts between CRDAs and contractors for various maintenance activities specific to
irrigation systems.
6)    Constraints and Achievements of the Project
Other than the external events that have impacted the Project during implementation,
the major constraints can be summarized as follows:
*     The Project is very large and ambitious in its investment, organizational and
institutional objectives, which were often inadequately defined. The means put in place to
achieve these objectives were inadequate for making progress on all fronts simultaneously.
*     Adhesion by identified partners that the Project expected to be associated in
achieving its goals was not total. Only the technical staff the Government who were
involved in operation and maintenance of irrigation systems were fully engaged in project
implementation.
*     Given the large number of CRDAs implicated in Project implementation, the
tasks of coordination and monitoring were very difficult.
The Project would have benefited in efficacy from a strategy of proceeding in
successive stages, or in elaborating sub-projects which would have permitted a greater
adaptation of objectives to the regional context of irrigation perimeters.
The achievements of the Project have nonetheless been very important:
-     Despite its complexity, the Project introduced an innovative and integrated
vision of irrigation water management into the Tunisian milieu. The Project inspired
numerous other sectoral and regional projects in the irrigation sub-sector.
*     Systematic maintenance of irrigation systems has been established and has
replaced the costly, periodic rehabilitation of irrigation works and equipment that
characterized the pre-Project period. The CRDAs now have the capacity needed for the
definition and implementation of annual programs of maintenance.
*     The modernization of tools for irrigation water management -- water metering,
computerization, radio communication, equipment security stocks, fleet management, etc. --
has begun to be generalized, which by nature has rationalized management and improved the
quality of services provided to water users.
*     The institutional reforms promoted by the Project were slow (water tariffs,
user group management, sub-contracting, privatization of commercial activities) and their
impact difficult to evaluate, but the process appears to be making progress without major
resistance form concerned parties.
Thus, as an initiator of a new dynamic, the Project has fulfilled its objectives.



Appendix 2
Table 1
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
COMPOSITION OF THE PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
PERIOD                   PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
1986-1987                -1 Project Director
-1 Assistant Director
-2 Hydraulics Engineers
-1 Secretary
1988-1989                -1 Project Director
-2 Hydraulics Engineers
-1 Assistant Engineer
-1 Secretary
1990-1991                -1 Project Director
-1 Hydraulic Engineer
-1 Electro-mechanical Engineer
-1 Assistant Engineer
-1 Secretary
1992-1995                -1 Project Director
-1 Coordinator
-1 Hydraulic Engineer
-1 Electro-mechanical Engineer (1995)
-1 Assistant Engineer
-1 Accountant
-1 Secretary



Appendix 2
Table 2
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TRAINING AND DOCUMENTATION UNDER THE
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
PLANNED                            REALIZATIONS
ACTIONS
|. IRRIGATION       Object       Place          Period      Participation             Themes
NETWORK
O.M.V.            Seminar   INPFCA S.    16 &              55             Management performances and
Management                   Thabet          17/11/87                     office administration
Maintenance       Training    Testour        28/11/87      30             Maintenance awareness
Kairouan       17/12/87
Training    CPRA          15-26/2/88    13              Operating cost and maintenance of
SAIDA          &                            the pressurized pipes of the
3-14/1088                    irrigation network
Training    CPRA          29/2/88 to    20              Operating cost and maintenance of
SAIDA          05/03/88                     gravity pipes of the irrigation
network
Organization and   Training    NIMES         4-6/6/88      5              Organization and management of
Management                   (France)        19-30/9/88                   irrigated areas.
Organization of    Seminar    OMVVM          10-14-10/88   18             Organization of water delivery on
the water delivery           OMIVAN          17-2110/89    14             the irrigation network
Maintenance       Seminar    CPRA            5-9/12/88     10             Maintenance or transport work for
SAIDA                                       sediment laden water
Renovation        Seminar    DG/GR           28/6/94       13             Putting together technical files or
and                          network for renovation
29/6/94                      Establishment of a standard
vocabulary for works and
anomalies
Establishment of diagnostic sheets
Seminar    DG/GR          28/9/94       13              Control of work progress with
and                          discussion and sharing of
29/9/94                      experience
Seminar    DG/GR          30/11/94       13             Hydraulic verification of networks
and                          and completion of diagnostic forms
01/12/94
Seminar    DG/GR          5-617/95      13              Preparation of invitation to tender
H. Douz        8-9/3/95      13             Preparation of invitation to tender
Preventive        Seminar    DG/GR           15/9/94       11             General definition of maintenance
maintenance                                                               and forms for programming
I ___________    ___________                 preventive  maintenance.
Seminar    DG/GR          15/12/95      14              Maintenance handbook of different
equipment of the irrigation
network.



Seminar   DG/GR          27/6/95       14            Preparation of maintenance
I____________               program
Network          Training   ITALY          17/10/94     8              Adjustment and maintenance of
equipment                                 to                           pressurized network equipment
28/10/94
Particular       Seminar   INPFCA          17-28/10/94   32            Maintenance of pipelines and
subjects                    S. Thabet                                 elevated canals-
Organization of    Seminar   INPFCA        21-25/11/94   13            "Arrondissement' organization:
the                         Sidi Thabet                                maintenance and operations.
"Arrondissement'
Seminar   INPFCA         12-16/6/95    29            "Arrondissement' organization:
S. Thabet     19-23/6/95                  maintenance and operations
Maintenance      Seminar   INPFCA          12-16/6/95    22            Preventive maintenance
S. Thabet     19-23/6/95
Analytical       Seminar   INPFCA          17-19/5/95    47            Introduction to analytical
accounting                  S. Thabet     01-03/6/95                  accounting
Renovation       Seminar                   11/95        13             Continued training on network
14-15/1/96                 renovation
Preventive       Seminar                   11/95        14            Continued training on preventive
maintenance                               01/96                        maintenance
Spare parts      Seminar                   12/95        14            Organization of spare parts
inventories
Repair workshop   Seminar                  09/95        14             Definition of repair workshop
Operation        Seminar                   10/95        21             Management of water shortages.
Particular       Seminar                  09/95         39            Anti water-hammer protection
subjects                                   12/95                      Water sales process
d  09/95                    Water meters
PLANNED                         REALIZATIONS
ACTIONS
II. PUMPING       Object        Place        Period     Participation            Themes
STATIONS
Pumping station   Training    NIMES       03-30/10/88   7             Conception, realization and
(FRANCE)                                 operation.
Maintenance     Training    CPRA          28/11 to      13            Conception and maintenance of
SAIDA         16/12/88                   hydraulic equipment of pumping
stations
Station         Training    OMVPI         07-25/11/88   11            Conception, realization, operating
_______  GAB3ES                                      cost of tubewell pumping stations.
Standardization    Seminar    TUNIS       23-26/01/90                 Standardization of equipment
of stations
Station         Seminar    DG/GR          05/929                      Study and creation of pumping
1 week                    stations



Submerged       Training    FRANCE        24/2 to       24            Electric equipment and
pumps                                     20/4/91                     submerged pumps
10/03 to
04/05/91
Operating cost    Trip      MOROCCO    02-16/09/90   4                Organization, operation and
maintenance of the stations of
Gharb
Maintenance of   Seminar    INPFCA         14-25/11/94   24          Maintenance of hydro-mechanic
hydro-mechanic              Sidi Thabet                              parts on pumping station of the
parts                                                                 irrigation network
Maintenance of   Diagnostic  DG/GR        01/10/94 to   23            Diagnostic: 54 volume meters
volumetric      and                       25/11/94                   Technical verification for
devices         Seminar                                              maintenance
Programmable    Training    ITALY         09/12/94 to   6            Operation and maintenance of
robots                                    28/12/94                   programmable robots for pumping
station.
Renovation of    Inspection   CRDA         1994         Electro-     27 HT/BT offices
pumping stations  of works                              mechanic      19 drilling stations
engineers    5 stations
Standardization                                                      Establishment of CRDA standards
Testing of      Workshop                  2/96                        On-site dynamic testing
pumps                      I             I             I _









M1A !L 'CT
Report No:         15 356
T yp e - ICR



