Docmiat of
The World Rnk
FoR OMCIAL USE ONLY
X,V. ps>33TnaW
R1pwt N.. P-4082-TUN
.
REPORT AND RECONNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON- A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
IRRIGATION NANGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 13, 1985
dwk _fid  dei  l  nmb O    9Otwwb dsdd Ir   _w   u



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CY 1984    -           February 1985
Currency Unit        =       Tunisian Dinar (TD)           TD
US $1                        T TD 0.7768                   TD 0.9037
TD 1                 =       US$ 1.2873                    US$ 1.1066
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report is US $ = TD 0.75
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIC      =      Association of Common Interest
BNT      =      National Bank of Tunisia
DCOMVPI  =      Department of Coordination of Irrigation Development Offices
DPSAE    =      Department of Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses
HEM      =      Hydro/Electromecbanical
MOA      =      Ministry of Agriculture
0&M      -      Operation and Maintenance
oMV      =      Irrigation Development Office
ONVUM    =      Irrigation Development Office of the Medjerda Valley
PC       =      Program-Contract
PPI      =      Public Irrigated Perimeter
WUA      =      Water User Association



FOR OFFIMCL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                       US$22.0 million equivalent
Terms:                        17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:         The proposed project would support nationwide
improvements of the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of about 105,000 ha of existing irrigation
systems as well as policy and institutional
reforms to increase the efficiency and
self-financing of the Irrigation Development
Offices (OMVs). The project would (a) reduce the
need for major costly investments for the
rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems by
improving maintenance operations; (b) ensure the
sustainability of agricultural development in
public irrigation schemes; (c) improve the
incomes of about 42,000 farmers and create
employment opportunities; and (d) aim at
eliminating the OMVs' operating deficits. The
project would consist of: (a) provision of
equipment and vehicles for O&M activities and of
safety stocks of spare parts, rehabilitation of
hydro/electromechanical equipment, and execution
of rehabilitation works; (b) setting up an
efficient management information system and
defining improved planning, financial and
operating procedures in OMVs, upgrading the
coordination between OMVs and their supervisory
Ministries, strengthening Water User
Associations, introducing adequate pricing
policies for OMVs' services to promote a more
rational use of resources and financial autonomy;
(c) technical assistance and training; and (d)
on-farm development. The risk of lower than
expected rehabilitation cost savings or
production response is minimized by the project
design focus on technical assistance and training
to improve irrigation O&M and overall management
of the OMVs.
This document ha a rstited distribution and may be used by recpients only in the perforan=
of their ofricial duti Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Workl Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs:                           Local    ForeiFn    Total
---(US$ million)---
Investment Costs
- Irrigation Offices
O&M equipment                                   3.0        3.5       6.5
Safety stocks                                   2.1        2.2       4.3
Rehabilitation of HEM equipment                 4.2        3.2       7.4
Technical assistance and training               0.8        0.9       1.7
OMVVM's rehabilitation investments              4.0        4.0       8.0
Water management studies                        0.4        0.5       0.9
Subtotal                                  14.5      14.3       28.8
- Ministry of Agriculture
Strengthening of DPSAE                          0.1        0.2       0.3
Strengthening of DCPPI                          0.2        0.7       0.9
Subtotal                                   0.3       0.9        1.2
Total Investment Base Costs               14.8       15.2      30.0
Incremental Operating Costs
- Irrigation Development Offices                    4.6        3.2       7.8
- Ministry of Agriculture                           0.9        0.1       1.0
- Onfarm development                                4.2        2.3       6.5
Total Operating Base Costs                 9.7       5.6       15.3
Total Base Costs                          24.5      20.8       45.3
Physical contingencies                   3.2       2.5        5.7
Price contingencies                      5.8       4.2       10.0
Total Project Cost                        33.5 1/   27.5       61.0 1/
Financing Plan:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
--(Us$ million)-
World Bank                                                    22.0      22.0
Other Donors                                        -          2.4       2.4
Government                                         13.7        -        13.7
Beneficiaries                                       4.6        -         4.6
Credit Institutions                                 1.5        3.1       4.6
Net Project Costs                              19.8       27.5      47.3
Taxes and Duties                               13.7         -       13.7
Total                                          33.5       27.5      61.0
1/ Includes $13.7 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
(USs million)-
Anmnal                     1.5    5.0    7.0    4.0    2.5    1.0    1.0
Cumulative                 1.5    6.5   13.5   17.5   20.0   21.0   22.0
Economic Rate of Return:    29 percent
Staff Appraisal Report:       No. 5396-TUN, dated May 10, 1985
Map No.                       IBRD 18608



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FOR AN
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$22.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia to help
finance an Irrigation Management Improvement Project. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2. A special economic report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86)" (No. 4137-TUN), in two volumes, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983. An economic
mission to review the performance of Plan implementation at mid-term visited
Tunisia in April 1984; its findings are reflected in this part and the country
data sheets, attached in Annex I.
3. Tunisia is a medium-size, middle-income country with a population of 7
million and a per capita income of about $1200-i' Much of Tunisia is arid
or semi-arid. Only three percent of arable land is irrigated, and areas where
rainfed agriculture is possible are subject to severe year-to-year fluctuation
in rainfall. Nevertheless, agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every
three Tunisians in the labor force. Tunisia's most important raw materials
are phosphates, petroleum and natural gas. Known exploitable -eserves of oil
and gas are approaching depletion, and new hydrocarbon reserves are limited
and require costly off-shore drilling; priority is now given to slowing down
the growth of domestic consumption by conservation and pricing measures. The
low quality of phosphate deposits constrains the expansion of the highly
efficient Tunisian phosphate processing industry. The country also has
considerable tourism potential, but after a period of rapid expansion, the
sector is experiencing difficulties in maintaining competitive prices and
quality standards.
I/ Part I is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report No.
P-3949-TUN of May 3, 1985 for a Second Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Project.
2/ 1984 preliminary figure at current prices and current exchange rates.



- 2 -
4.   Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort to develop its human resources,
paying special attention to family welfare, education, and technical and
vocational training. As a result, between the early 1960s and the early
1980s, the infant mortality rate declined from almost 160 to 65,
the expectation of life at birth rose from 48 to 61 years, the adult literacy
rate increased from about 15 to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply
per capita increased from 83 to 116 percent of minimum standard requirements.
An active family planning policy pursued by the Government led to a decrease
in fertility and birth rates. Even though mortality rates also decreased, the
gross reproduction rate decreased markedly from 3.5 to 2.1 percent over che
same period.  However, since net emigration of Tunisians abroad was sharply
reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries and Libya, the
growth rate of the labor force accelerated, a main reason for the rapidly
growing, serious unemployment problem. Open unemployment reached 14 percent
in 1983 and underemployment is extensive. These problems are particularly
serious among young school dropouts.
5.       During the 1970s, the Tunisian economy did extremely well.  Rapid
growth in the range of 7-8 percent was accompanied by substantial structural
transformation as manufacturing and tourism became more diversified, and their
share in total exports increased. Economic performance benefitted from
substantial terms of trade gains due to the rapid price increase of oil,
allowing both consumption and domestic savings to increase and investment to
remain high (over 30 percent of GDP). It also benefitted from improved
economic management with a cautious shift toward a more liberal,
market-oriented economy. The balance of payments current account deficit,
averaging 5 to 6 percent of GDP over the period, was easily financed, much of
it by direct foreign investment. The only major problem was a high rate of
unemployment and underemployment.
6.       During the Fifth Plan (1977-81), more than half of total investments
was allocated to directly productive sectors, but the direct employment
effects of the leading sectors (petroleum, phosphate mining and processing,
and tourism) were small and unemployment continued to increase. These
sectors, however, made a vital contribution to GDP, public savings and
exports. They provided 52 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings
in 1983, while manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals,
provided 19 percent.
7.       The Sixth Plan (1982-86) proposed a number of policy reforms to face
the consequences of rising unemployment and the progressive decline in net
energy exports. Its main objectives were employment -eneration, export
promotion, regional development and public sector efficiency. Investment
priority was given to agriculture, engineering industries and tourism. The
overall rate of investment was projected to decline during the Plan period.
To minimize the effects on economic growth and employment, measures were
proposed to increase the efficiency of existing investments and to encourage a
shift to labor-intensive activities. These measures were to be accompanied by
a substantially tightened incomes policy, in particular cautious wage and
salary policies and a considerable slowdown in the growth of recurrent budget
expenditures.



8.       The Sixth,Plan started poorly.  In 1982, a prolonged drought
depressed agricultural output and agro-industrial production, technical
problems plagued the phosphate and cement industries, and tourism and exports
of manufactured goods were adversely affected by the recession in Europe. The
economy recovered in 1983 and 1984 due to buoyant growth in manufacturing
output, stimwlated by rapidly growing local demand. This brought the average
annual growth of GDP in the first three years of the Plan to 3.5 percent,
compared to 5.3 percent targeted. This performance is nonetheless commendable
in view of the world recession and compared with other countries.
9.       More worrisome than the slowdown in economic growth are the
macroeconomic imbalances, which have worsened over the last years. "In
contradiction to the Plan's macroeconomic scenario, the investment rate
remained high rather than declined, mainly due to high public enterprise
investments in energy and transportation, and consumption expanded rapidly,
fuelled by sharp increases in wages and salaries. The corresponding strong
demand pressure, facilitated by rather liberal credit policies, was reflected
in rising inflation: 13.6 percent in 1982, compared to a 7.8 percent average
over 1977-81; it was slowed to 8.4 percent in 1984 through increased price
controls. Lower than planned overall economic growth, higher capital
intensity of new investments, and the sharp increase in labor costs combined
to keep employment creation below Plan goals, and unemployment further
increased.
10.      Despite a virtual stagnation of imports (in constant prices) due to
tightened import control, the current account deficit of the balance of
payments deteriorated to 8.9 percent of GDP by 1984. A fall in exports of
petroleum and of agricultural products, and a slowdown in tourism, depressed
export receipts. Direct foreign investment (mainly in the oil and gas sector)
stagnated in 1983-84. Nevertheless, Tunisia's net foreign exchange reserves
increased substantially to reach 1.7 months of imports at end-1984, as
compared to 1.1 at end-1980. This reflects, inter alia, a revaluation of the
Central Bank's foreign exchange assets, as well as the Government's drawing
down part of a syndicated Eurodollar loan contracted in 1982.
11.      The budgetary situation has also deteriorated since 1981; the Central
Government's overall budget deficit jumped from 2.7 to over 7 percent of GDP
between 1981-84. This reflected increases in public investments and in
recurrent expenditures due to wage and salary increases, higher subsidy
payments to households and public enterprises, and growing dollar-denominated
debt service payments caused by a 36 percent dollar appreciation vis-ai-vis the
Tunisian dinar between 1981-84. On the other hand, this latter factor helped
keep petroleum revenues from falling, and total revenues showed a continuous
growth despite the recession. In 1984, recurrent expenditure growth slowed
considerably, however, as a result of a freeze in Government salaries and
wages and of lower consumer subsidies.
12.      Medium-term prospects depend on two main factors: future developments
in the hydrocarbon sector; and the speed with which tae Government implements
the far-reaching macroeconomic policy changes outlined in the Sixth Plan. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have not been encouraging. Based on
known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of smaller fields that
recently became profitable, it is generally expected that domestic oil and gas



production could be stabilizee at about its present annual level of 5-6
million tons of oil equivalent until the end of the decade. Barring large new
oil or gas discoveries, and given the rise in domestic demand for energy,
Tunisia would turn into a net importer of oil in the early 1990s.
13.      Making the necessary adjustments to prepare the economy for the post-
hydrocarbon era is made more difficult by increasing financial and balance of
payments constraints. While there is little disagreement about the
desirability or objectives of economic reform, the appropriate implementation
measures and particularly the speed of reform are more controversial. While
undeniable progress has been made since the early 1980s in several respects,
other factors have worked in the opposite direction (para. 14). Over the last
years, the Government has focussed with some success on administrative type
measures. Legitimately concerned with immediate economic and social problems,
it resorted to short-term measures and direct, quantitative controls such as
mandatory price reductions and import restrictions. Among longer-term
policies, only export promotion was addressed by a sufficiently broad approach
(tax rebates, foreign exchange risk insurance, special credit, trade
companies). The price liberalization process has moved slowly, with some
reductions in price subsidies (particularly for agricultural inputs,
transportation and energy) and some liberalization in the price regimes for
manufactured goods. Economic incentives have been modified to promote
regional development and stimulate smaller firms, but the existing bias in
favor of capital-intensive investment rather than employment has little
changed. Finally, fiscal reform has been initiated.
14.      Policy reforms to address the root causes of the structural
imbalances identified by the Sixth Plan have been less actively pursued.
Specifically, major areas that need greater attention are: (a) wage and
salsry policies, which should become more restrictive, so as to slow down
growth of public and private consumption and stimulate labor-intensive
investments and exports and, thus, increase employment creation. As mentioned
before, trends during the early 1980s were in the opposite direction. In
1984, however, no salary increases were granted and the Government has decided
to continue tD pursue cautious salary policies in 1985 and beyond; (b) subsidy
policies, with consumer subsidies to be reduced so as to dampen private
consumption and stimulate public savings.  Some encouraging first steps have
been taken in-this respect, but more action is needed; (c) interest policies,
to make interest rates positive in real terms, so as to stimulate savings and
labor-intensive investments. A thorough reassessment of these policies is
underway. As a first step, rates were increased in late April 1985 by 1-2
percentage points on average; (d) public enterprise reform, to stop the drain
of public enterprisa deficits on the Gcvernment budget. First steps have been
taken in this direction, and a number of enterprises have been closed; (e)
public investments, which should be reduced to decrease the budget deficit,
but made more efficien. and reorieuted so as to increase their contribution to
economic growth and employment creation. A particularly careful screening of
projects will be necessary in the future; (f) domestic protection and pricing
policies so as to create more incentives for exports, particularly for
manufactured products; and (g) exchange rate policies, so as to ensure that
exports (including tourism) become more competitive.



-5-
15.      Even if the Government moves more rapidly in implementing all or most
of the above measures, the delays incurred so far in meeting the Sixth Plan
macroeconomic targets and in implementing its policy recowmendations will
probably not be recovered by 1986. It is unlikely therefore that medium-term
GDP annual growth will match the 6 to 8 percent rate achieved in the past. A
growth rate not exceeding 4 percent would be more commensurate with the need
to control current account deficits without a systematic recourse to
quantitative protection measures or excessive external '-orrowing. This 4
percent growth rate takes account of the projected stagnation or even decline
of hydrocarbon production. It also assumes that while agriculture will remain
sensitive to weather conditions, marnufacturing will perform well as the full
impact of the export promotion policies is felt.
16.      Social Issues.  Since independence, the country has gone a long way
towards meeting the basic needs of its population. Over 16 percent of GDP is
now devoted to social programs, and the number of absolute poor declined from
17 percent of total population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. This
improvement was largely concentrated, however, in urban areas. Since 1981,
social issues have faced a different context than in the 1970s, when an easy
financial situation seemed to allow a relatively unconstrained expansion of
so-ial service..  On one hand, the Tunisian population has become increasingly
aware of and sensitive to the issues of income distribution and the
Government's responsibility for redistribution. Furthermore, the beneficial
effects of past rapid expansion in social services, reflected in the
improvement of the country social data (see Annex I). have created a demand
for improved standards in social services delivery. On the other hand, the
provision of adequate social services - education, health, town
infrastructure, housing - is being increasingly hampered by budgetary
constraints. Attempts to respond to protect the workers by raising the levels
of minimum legal wages and social insurance has discouraged private business
from increasing employment.
17.      To reduce internal differences, in particular between rural and urban
areas and among workers in the modern sector and those precariously employed
in informal activities, the Government is channelling more resources into
regional development and youth employment. Integrated rural programs _e
being developed to stimulate productive job creation and grassroots
participation. Subsidies and credit facilities are granted for young
technicians to create their own enterprises and for entrepreneurs to create
new projects in underdeveloped regions. More efforts are needed, however, to
strengthen the coordination of vocational and on-the-job training with market
demand. To reduce the financial burden of social services, the aaministration
is reviewing the cost structure of the various types of social services,
including free or below-cost delivery and the introduction of some user fees.
Special efforts are needed to improve social infrastructure management, in
particular as regards hospitals. Also, decentralization of social facilities
in deprived zones will have to be assessed carefully because costs for
servicing and maintaining them could become rapidly prohibitive.
18.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  During the second half of the
1970s, foreign borrowing was modest and a large share of foreign funds was



-6-
provided by public sources at relatively soft terms. At the end of 1979, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at $3 billion, or 42 percent of GDP;
debt service was 10 percent of export revenues. For reasons mentioned earlier
(para. 10), the balance of payments deficit has increased substantially since
then, as has foreign indebtedness. Total public foreign debt outstanding and
disbursed at the end of 1983 reached nearly $3.7 billion, equivalent to about
45 percent of GDP; according to preliminary estimates, it reached nearly $4.2
billion (52 percent of GDP) at the end of 1984. The relative burden of debt
servicing reached almost 22 percent in 1984. However, a relatively cautious
debt management policy has been followed by the -Tunisian authorities. While
the share of short-term borrowings has increased slightly since 1980,
Tunisia's overall foreign debt remains overwhelmingly long and medium-term,
and debt service requirements are projected to increase only slowly. During
1978-82, 65 percent of foreign loan commitments were from official sources and
about 30 percent on concessional terms. Just over half of official
commitments came from bilateral sources (mainly France, Japan, the Federal
Republic of Germany and some Arab oil-producing countries), and about 24
percent each from the Bank Group and from other multilateral sources. Overall
borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 7.4 percent interest and 15.9 years
maturity, including a grace period of 4.2 years. These terms hardened,
however, in 1983 and 1984.
19.      In the medium-term, external capital requirements will clearly remain
manageable.  In the longer-term, much will depend on the policy changes to be
initiated during the next few years, and on developments in the hydrocarbon
sector. The Government's medium-term objective is to maintain the present
level of indebtedness; this prospect strongly depends on a timely
implementation of policy measures to accelerate exports, reduce public
investments, lower domestic demand growth, and liberalize regulation and
controls. On this basis, the current account deficit is projected to
fluctuate around $630 million until 1986, but decline thereafter. New loan
commitments from abroad could be kept at little over $1 billion per year on
average (in current prices at the 1984 exchange rate), while net foreign
borrowing might average about $360 million between now and the early 1990s.
20.      Tunisia, after a decade of outstanding performance, is facing the
major challenge of adapting its economic structure at a time of external and
internal financial constraints. A strategy of demand restraint combined with
more liberal economic policies is called for to preserve the country's
financial stability and creditworthiness. Considering its long record of
prudent and skillful balance of payments and external debt management, there
are good grounds to assume that Tunisia will implement the necessary policy
changes, and remain creditworthy for a continued high volume of Bank lending.



-7-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
21.      Since 1962, the Bank has committed to Tunisia sixty-six loans and ten
IDA credits amounting respectively to $1,387.0 million and $75.2 million (net
of cancellations) of which forty-one loans and credits have been fully
disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985. Project implementation is generally
satisfactory. As of March 31, 1985, overall disbursements amounted to 51
percent of appraisal estimates, which is in line with experience in other
countries in the region. Disbursement performance for irrigation, industrial
finance and port projects has generally been above the country average, while
longer than average disbursement delays have been experienced for agricultural
credit, education, highway, urban and fisheries projects, due to
project-specific problems that are being addressed through supervision
missions and sector discussions. In a number of sectors, important
institutional improvements have been achieved, and autonomous agencies have
been created or strengthened to ensure the efficient management of the related
sectors or subsectors.
22.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting the
country's transition from a situation of reliance on petroleum exports to a
sectorally-balanced post-hydrocarbon era through appropriate changes in
economic policies and programs. This adjustment process, as outlined in the
Sixth Development Plan, will require further diversification of exports,
greater savings efforts, reduction in consumer subsidies, gradual
liberalization of all sectors of the economy, and stronger incentives to the
private sector particularly in agriculture and industry, while taking measures
to increase employment and target developmuent to low-income groups. In
support of the above, the overall objective of Bank lending is to emphasize
projects which have a direct and rapid impact on production, employment and
exports (or import savings) and which minimize Government net contributions.
The focus of lending for agriculture and industry meets this objective. In
addition to the above, proposed Bank lending would focus on improvement of
public enterprise performan.e, development and conservation of energy
resources, and continued support to the social sectors and operations targeted
to low-income groups. For the latter, attention would be given to increased
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of institutions and investments and to
linkages with directly productive sectors (e.g., education reforms stressing
vocational training). We envisage only marginal lending for basic economic
infrastructure, focussed in areas where Bank guidance would still be useful,
such as rural water supply and highways maintenance.
23.      Past Bank lending emphasized support for long-term investments in
infrastructure and social development, each of which accounted for about
one-third of Bank/IDA commitments since 1971. The rest of the commitments
were almost equally distributed between agriculture and industrial financing.
In addition, the Bank has made two loans for technical assistance.  Within the
broad framework noted in para. 22, we expect a significant shift in our
lending, with well over half going to agriculture and industry. In addition
to the proposed Irrigation Management Improvement Project, proposed lending in
the next couple of years would include projects for irrigation in the Gabes
area in the South, urban development, grain storage, a credit line for
small-scale industry, energy, and sector loans for agriculture and industry.



-8-
24.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. It
vill be centered on the analysis of economic issues and policies related to
the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum-exporting to a petroleum-
importing country. This analysis, which was included in the special economic
report entitled "Tunisia - Review of the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86)"
(No. 4137-TUN), dated March 16, 1983 and June 29, 1983, is being pursued
through a number of studies. A mid-term performance review of the Sixth Plan
is being discussed with the Government, as are studies on industrial
employment creation and on the financial sector. A number of key studies
resulted from provisions in Bank loans, for example on the insLitutional and
incentive framework for electromechanical industries and for exports in
general.  In time, the recommendations of these studies, and of those
currently in progress (Industrial Policy Study, Agricultural Sector Discussion
Paper) will provide the basis for policy action programs. Further economic
and sector work includes studies of educational finance and administration,
housing finance, and a review of public enterprise performance.
25.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 17 percent of total commitments
from official sources to Tunisia during 1982-1984. Their share in total debt
outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1984 (including loans from private
sources) was an estimated 11.5 percent, and their share in debt service during
1984 was 11.5 percent. The share of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed
external debt is expected to increase to about 16 percent and their share in
the debt service to about 13.7 percent through 1986.
26.      As of March 31, 1985, IFC's net commitment in Tunisia totalled about
$14.0 million. IFC has invested in the Economic Development Bank of Tunisia
(BDET), in 1966, 1970, and 1978; in the National Bank for Tourism Development
(INDT) to promote and invest in tourism projects; in the Societe Touristique
et Hoteli&re (RYM), a large hotel development; in the Industries Chimiques du
Fluor (ICF), a producer of aluminum fluoride from local fluorspar for export;
and in the Societe d'Etudes et de D6veloppement de Sousse-Nord for an
integrated tourism development project. In FY84, IFC approved two new equity
investments in Tunisia: (i) Fluobar, a project to privatize, rehabilitate and
expand an existing fluorspar mine; and (ii) Tunisia Leasing Company, the first
leasing company in Tunisia to provide financing to the industrial sector. IFC
is considering the following activities: (i) participation in an expansion
program under study by ICF; (ii) purchase of additional share capital under
expansion programs planned by BNDT and BDET; and (iii) at the Government's
request, privatization of certaiu state-owned industrial projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
27.      Background.  Tunisia has a total land area of 16.4 million ha of
which 8.4 million ha are suitable for agriculture and grazing. The country
can be divided into three main ecological zones. The northern 25 percent is
the most fertile, receiving adequate rainfall (400-1,000 mm). The central
zone (15 percent) receives between 200 and 400 mm of rainfall, and the
southern part (60 percent) is a predesert zone receiving less than 200 mm of
rainfall. Of the 5.0 million ha of cultivable land, 34 percent is planted in



- 9 -
cereals. 35 percent in fruit trees and the remainder in forage crops,
vegetables. grain legumes and industrial crops; 20 percent is normally left
fallow. Givtn the high variability in rainfall, important efforts have been
made to develop irrigated agriculture (paras. 32-34).
28.      Past Perforuance.  Tunisia's agricultural sector performed well
during the 1970s. The value of production grew at 4.4 percent p.a. in real
terms between 1970 and 1979, compared to 3 percent p.a. for middle income
countries as a group. However, the pace of growth slowed down considerably
near :he end of the period and early 1980s (0.5 percent p.a. for 1977-82),
mostly because of drought which has repeatedly affected the country. While
the more rapid growth in other sectors, particularly petroleum and tourism,
induced a decline in the relative role of agriculture, it still represents 13
percent of Tunisia's GDP and employs about one-third of the labor force. The
continued growth of agricultural production and rural migration has resulted
in an increase in average per capita income in agriculture (from US$173 in
1960/62 to US$380 in 1979, measured in 1979 US dollars) and a reduction in the
percentage of rural population living below the absolute poverty level (from
17 percent in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980).
29.      National Development Plans and Government Strategy.  Under the Fifth
Development Plan (1977-81), the Government's main objectives for the sector
included a balanced agricultural trade and increased rural employment and
incomes. Partly due to the drought, Plan targets were in most cases not met.
Agricultural value added increased at an annual rate of 1.0 percent between
1976 and 1981, well below the Plan target of 2.5 percent. Potential exports
were diverted to local consumption and imports, in particular of cereals,
increased. As a result, the ratio of food imports to exports increased from
1.2 in 1976 to 1.8 in 1981. The basic objectives for agriculture under the
Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) have not changed. The need to resolve key
issues such as employment, regional income disparities as well as increased
efficiency of investments has become even greater due to the necessity of
adjusting the economy to a post-hydrocarbon situation. The Government is
aiming to achieve this adjustment in agriculture through, inter alia: (a) a
shift toward smaller, less capital intensive -nvestments generating employment
opportunities; and (b) the creation of a more favorable economic environment,
including the introduction of a more realistic price structure for
agricultural products. Investments in agriculture are planned to increase
from 13 percent of total i1ivestments during the last Plan to 19 percent. The
Bank-financed Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN) is assisting the
Government in the preparation of high priority projects and subsectoral
strategies, including policy reforms.
30.      Previous Bank Involvement in Agricultural Projects.  Bank Group
lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967, and to date 15 projects
have been approved for a total of US$358.2 million of Bank/IDA funds,
including the recently-approved Northwest Agricultural Production Project. Of
these, eight are ongoing including three irrigation projects. Performance
under these projects has been mixed reflecting institu-tional constraints. The
First Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN) was completed at the end of 1979
witb considerable delays and low loan recoveries for boats. These problems
were addressed under the Second Fisheries Project (Loan 1746-TUN), which is
now progressing satisfactorily. The First and Second Agricultural Credit
Projects (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN and Loan 1340-TUN) financed lending of the



- 10 -
National Bank of Tunisia (BRT) for on-farm development. While the projects
achieved good rates of return, the continuing problem of higher interest rates
on Bank funds than on Government-supplied credit and the lack of
decentralization of BNT caused disbursements to be slower than anticipated.
The Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1885-TUN) is addressing priority
credit problems. Action has been taken to decentralize BNT's operations and
raise interest rates. On the basis of financial and agricultural sector
discussions to take place during the first half of 1985, the Government is
expected to prepare a plan of action to achieve positive interest rates and
improve loan recovery ratios. The physical implementation of the
poverty-oriented Northwest Rural Development Project (Loan 1997-TUN) is
proceeding satisfactorily. The Government is now preparing milk price reforms
which should help sustain the favorable impact of the project. The Grain
Storage Project (Loan 2052-TUN) is also progressing well after initial delays
and the recruitment of new consulting engineers. Under the Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN), strategies have been or are being
developed for improvements in several subsectors including farm input
distribution, farm mechanization, produce marketing, research and extension,
and improved operation and maintenance of existing irrigation infrastructure.
These strategies will contribute to increasing the efficiency of investments
under the Sixth and Seventh (1987-91) Development Plans.
31.      Implementation of the irrigation projects -- First Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN), Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project (Loan
1431-TUN), Southern Irrigation Project (Loan 1796-TUN), Medjerda/Nebhana
Irrigation Project (Loan 2157-TUN) and Central Tunisia Irrigation Project
(Loan 2234-TUN) -- has been satisfactory. However, these projects have been
more concerned with rehabilitating and expanding irrigation infrastructure
than with institutional development. OED's draft audit of the First
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN), dated November 5, 1984,
determined that the economic rate of return of the project was highly
satisfactory (32 percent). A major finding was that the increased reliability
of water supply brought about by rehabilitation works carried out under the
project had a major impact on farm production and incomes in the project area,
by increasing farmers' willingness to take higher risk with higher value
crops. The Irrigation Development Offices (OMVs), the public entities which
manage the projects, have demonstrated their ability to carry out construction
works efficiently, but their management still needs improvement and their
performance on operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure has been
mixed.
THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
32.      Background.  The mobilization and efficient use of scarce water
resources for irrigation has been and remains a major preoccupation of the
Government. Since the early 1960s, major shares of public and private
investments in agriculture have been allocated for that purpose: 30 percent
between 1962 and 1971, 23 percent from 1972 to 197& and 44 percent from 1977
to 1981. The Government invested heavily in irrigation infrastructure (nine
major dams, 20 smaller dams, more than 800 deep wells and about 250 pumping
stations have already been constructed), while the private sector invested
mostly in shallow wells (about 23,000) and related equipment. Currently, out
of 250,000 ha with irrigation potential, some 205,000 ha (85,000 in Public
Irrigated Perimeters (PPIs) and 120,000 in private areas) are equipped for
irrigation against 120,000 ha in 1972.



- 11 -
33.      In 1984,-about 160,000 ha were actually irrigated out of the 205,000
ha equipped, giving an overall average irrigation intensity (annual irrigated
crop area over area equipped) of 78 percent. In the PPIs, the average
intensity is about 66 percent while it is 86 percent for the private
perimeters. In terms of use of water resources, in 1981, of the about 1.9
billion m3 of water developed and available for beneficial use, 0.4 billion
m were for domestic and industrial use and 1.5 billion m3 for
agricultural purposes, but only some 60 percent of water developed for
irrigation was being used. The main reasons for low irrigation intensity in
PPIs are: (a) inadequate operation and maintenance of irrigation systems due
to a lack of equipment, a shortage of adequately trained staff and inadequate
allocation of resources, resulting in low network efficiencies (about
two-thirds of planned efficiencies on average); (b) the scarcity of water for
PPIs located in the southern and eastern areas; and (c) the underutilization
of available resources for PPIs in the northern part of the country, mostly
due to farmers' unwillingness to use irrigation fully because of problems of
size of land holdings and land tenure as well as preferences for farming
systems with low labor requirements (cereals).
34.      The irrigated sector contributed significantly to the rapid growth of
Tunisian agriculture during the 1970s. In 1980, it accounted for about 25
percent of the country's total agricultural GDP. About 50 percent of total
irrigated area is used to produce vegetables, 35 percent is under fruit trees
and about 8 percent under fodder crops. The balance (7 percent) is used for
cereals and industrial crops (mostly sugar beet). However, the subsector's
contribution could have been higher if more intensive use had been made of the
irrigable areas. The Government's main objectives during the Sixth
Development Plan are: extension of irrigable areas; and intensification of
water utilization and crop production on existing irrigable areas. It is
envisaged that D 610 million or about 40 percent of total planned investments
in agriculture during the Plan period will be allocated to irrigation. These
investments would increase the total equipped area to about 245,000 ha (of
which about 125,000 ha in PPIs). The Plan also envisages efforts to improve
the intensity of use of existing facilities through: (a) renewed efforts to
implement Agrarian Reform in the PPIs; (b) more efficient extension services,
leading to more effective encouragement of recommended cropping patterns and
promotion of water saving technologies and agricultural practices; and (c)
more efficient water management through greater involvement of Water User
Associations (WUAs) and improved operation and maintenance of public
irrigation systems by OMVs, and more efficient provision of commercial
agricultural support services through greater involvement of the
private/cooperative sector. Issues related to (a) and (b) are discussed in
the following two paragraphs, while those related to (c), which will be
dire-'ly addressed under the proposed project, are analyzed more fully in
para. 37.
Issues
35.      Land Ownership and Agrarian Reform in PPIs.  In Tunisia, the size of
holdings is a major constraint to the intensification of irrigation. Studies
carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture have indicated a strong inverse
correlation between the size of holdings and irrigation intensities. To



- 12 -
rationalize the use of available water resources and ensure the fuller
exploitation of its investments in irrigation infrastructure, the Government
has enacted Agrarian Reform Laws providing for land ownership limitation; land
consolidation; inducement to irrigate; and farmers' contribution to
investment cost. While some progress has been made, particularly in the area
of consolidation in some PPIs, farmer resistance and inadequate penalties have
limited implementation of the Agrarian Reform Laws. A study on land issues is
being done under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2197-TUN) and an
internal Government comission has been established to review this matter.
The lack of a proper national cadastre has affected the Government's ability
to address land issues, and it is therefore preparing a National Cadastre and
Cartography Project. Farmers' contribution to investments is discussed in
more detail in the framework of cost recovery (para. 37 (f)).
36.      Extension and Applied Research.  Since 1973/74, OMVs have made
considerable efforts to set up effective extension services, supported by
Applied Research Stations, to cater to the specific needs of the farmers in
their sphere of influence. Although their impact on production is difficult
to assess, OMVs' extension and research services seem to have performed
reasonably well. They have been instrumental in selecting and introducing new
high yielding varieties, in particular for vegetables, and promoting fodder
crops with pure-bred milk cows. However, the present system still has
drawbacks: (a) applied research by OMVs lacks linkages and coordination with
other existing research services and programs, and concentrates mostly on
providing advice on specific crops, without taking into consideration the
whole farm system or farmers' different needs, motivations and capabilities;
(b) little attention has so far been given to improved water management at
farm level; and (c) OMVs' extension agents are burdened by additional tasks
(input supply, credit, marketing, collection of statistics, etc.) that have
diverted them from their principal role. The Government is preparing a
National Extension and Research Master Plan under the Technical Assistance
Project (Loan 2197-TUN), which will propose the measures necessary to improve
Tunisia's extension and research systems, including irrigated agriculture and
is planned to be implemented in 1986 and beyond. Under the present Project,
measures would be taken (para. 51) to divest OMVs of some of their
commercially oriented activities, which will facilitate the future reform of
the extension sygtem by allowing OMVs' extension agents to devote more time to
their primary function.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      Background on Irrigation Development Offices (OMVs).  OMVs were
created to: operate and maintain public irrigated perimeters (PPIs); provide
extension services for irrigated crops; provide other support services (e.g.,
input distribution, tractor services, produce marketing, credit distribution)
when not available from other sources; and promote the creation of farmer
groups or cooperatives to assume responsibility for the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of irrigation systems and for commercial setvices. OMVs are
State-owned enterprises with a separate legal entity, which are to be run as
financially-autonomous commercial enterprises. The main problems regarding
OMVs' operations and performance include:



_ 13 -
a) Relationship with Government: Current planning, financial
management, cost accounting and budgeting systems are inadequate to provide
OMVs with clear development objectives or allow their supervisory ministry
(the Ministry of Agriculture) to monitor OMVs' activities and performance.
b) Management. Poor management performance is due both to
inadequate management information systems (MIS) and to problems with staff
structure and skills - OMVs are characterized by overstaffing, a relatively
low level of technical and managerial skills and the lack of an effective
staff incentive system. Poor management contributes to inadequate budgeting
for and attention to maintenance of irrigation facilities, resulting in
frequent breakdowns and poor service which, in turn, discourages water use by
farmers and their willingness to pay water charges, and obliges OMVs to
undertake frequent, costly rehabilitation investments.
c) Relationship with Water User Associations (WUAs). The most
prevalent form of WUA - the Association of Common Interest (AIC) - has
gradually ceased co play an active role in water management in many areas due,
inter alia, to the higher technology of modern irrigation systems and the
resulting increased financial and managerial skills involVed, and to the AIC's
complex and bureaucratic operating procedures. In consequence, simple O&M
tasks are carried out by OMVs at a higher cost.
d) Financial Situation. The revenues that OMVs derive from water
sales and commercial services are not sufficient to cover the costs of these
services, and the balance is covered by annual Government operating
subsidies. Over 1981-84, OMVs' internally-generated income represented on
average less than 40 percent of their total income. This lack of financial
autonomy has fostered inefficiency and caused a significant drain on the
Government budget.
e) Commercial Activities and the Role of the Private Sector. The
support services provided by ONVs were originally meant to be a temporary
solution until alternative delivery mechanisms could be promoted. However,
actions have not been taken to promote the private/cooperative sector's
involvement and Government subsidization of OMVs' activities in these areas
has effectively blocked out the private sector. OMVs are diverted from their
most important tasks - O&M of irrigation systems and extension - in order to
provide other services, which they do less efficiently and less well than the
private sector.
f) Irrigation Cost Recovery. Government policy for recovering
investments in PPIs is embodied in the land reform legislation (para. 35),
which calls for betterment levies aimed at recovering part of the increase in
land value due to irrigation. Actual recovery of farmers' contribution to
investment costs has, to date, been very limited. As regards irrigation O&M
costs, Government policy is to achieve 100 percent cost recovery. Water
charges have been substantially increased since 1980, with average annual
increases in various OMVs ranging from 15-36 percent in current terms, or from
3-24 percent in constant terms. However, despite this major effort, water
charges currently cover on average only about 40 percent of O&M costs (these
charges are, however, paid in advance, resulting in recovery of dues close to
100 percent). This represents recovery of 14-37 percent of total irrigation



- 14 -
costs, depending on the OMV involved. Further increases in water charges are
required to increase the financial. autonomy of the OMVs and encourage a more
rational use of available water.
38.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Past Bank involvement in irrigation
projects has led to progress on subsector issues, most notably cost recovery,
and laid the basis for the introduction, nationally, of a number of reforms
needed to ensure efficient use of existing infrastructure and improve return
on past and future investments, and bring about important improvements in the
management and efficiency of the institutions operating in the sector. The
proposed project, in addition to providing the physical investments needed to
ensure improved O&M of irrigation facilities, will focus on these required
reforms. A continued Bank presence is valuable in view of the institutional
and policy orientation of these reforms. To minimize project complexity, the
proposed project would concentrate on the improvement of O&M and not directly
tackle other constraints to onfarm development such as applied research,
extension or agricultural support services. These constraints are being
addressed through separate ongoing projects financed by the Bank or through
other projects being prepared under the Technical Assistance Project (Loan
2197-TUN).
39.      Background.  The project was identified in the 1982 Agricultural
Sector Survey (Report No. 3876-TUM, September 29, 1982) and prepared by
consultants under the Technical Assistance Project. The project was appraised
in September 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 29 to May
3, 1985. The Tunisian delegation was led by the Director General of
International Cooperation, Ministry of Planning, and included representatives
of the Departments of Coordination of Irrigation Development Offices (DCOMVPI)
and Planning, Statistics and Economic Analyses (DPSAE) of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA), and the Irrigation Development Office of the Medjerda
Valley (OMVVM). The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Irrigation Management
Improvement Project", No. 5396-TUN of May 10, 1985 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the Project are
sunmmarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III of this
President's Report. A map showing the location of the areas covered by the
Project is attached.
40.      The main objectives of the Project are to: increase and ensure the
sustainability of agricultural production within some 105,000 ha of land in
the PPIs; improve the incomes of farmers living in PPIs and create employment
opportunities; eliminate the OMVs' operating deficits, thereby reducing the
burden of annual operating subsidies on the Government's budget; and reduce
the need to regularly undertake major investments for the rehabilitation of
existing irrigation systems by improving regular maintenance operations.
These objectives would be achieved through: a) improving OMVs' capabilities
to provide increased water delivery, in a timely and cost-effective manner,
and to maintain existing irrigation systems; b) introducing pricing and cost
recovery policies for OMVs' services, aimed at a more rational use of
available resources, increased competition from the private and cooperative
sectors, and greater financial autonomy of OMNs; c) setting up an
institutional framework providing for improved management efficiency and
greater accountability for OMVs, and strengthened planning and control
capabilities for Government services in charge of monitoring OMVs' operations;
and d) increasing the role and responsibilities of Water User Associations
(WUAs) in the O&M of irrigation systems.



- 15 -
41.      The-Project would be implemented over a five-year period (1986-1990)
and would support the development of eleven OMVs covering the following areas;
Gafsa-Jerid, Gabes-iedenine, Jendouba, Kairouan, Lakhmes, Medjerda (OMVVM),
Nabeul, Nebhana, Kasserine, Sidi Bouzid and Souassi. It would consist of:
(a) an investment component comprising the provision of heavy equipment,
vehicles, workshops and radio and computer equipment for O&M
actiJities; rehabilitation, regular preventive maintenance and repair
of hydro/electromechanical (HEM) equipment; establishment of safety
stocks for equipment and irrigation networks; and for OMVVM,
rehabilitation of part of the irrigation and drainage networks and
support for the delayed maintenance of the feeder road system;
b)   an institutional/policy reform component aimed at strengthening the
coordination between OMVs and their supervisory Ministries;
strengthening the role of WUAs; improving the technical, planning and
financial management of OMVs; and introducing improved pricing
policies for OMVs' services;
c)   a technical assistance, training and support action component
including: technical assistance to OMVs to set up a new MIS, reform
their accounting, financial, planning and technical operating
procedures, carry out the necessary related training programs, set up
a system to monitor agricultural and productivity development at farm
level, prepare detailed engineering of proposed project works, and
carry out water management studies in a number of OMVs, including
establishment of a water flow monitoring system and a 500 ha pilot
sector in OMVVM to test alternative water delivery and management
technologies, and conducting experiments on water saving technologies
and cropping methods in OMV Gafsa-Jerid; and technical assistance to
DPSAE and DCOMVPI to strengthen their capabilities to plan and
monitor OMVs' activities; and
d)   on-farm development associated with the proposed project investments.
42.      Project Cost and Financing.  The total estimated cost of the project
is $61.0 million, of which $27.5 million is in foreign exchange. Base Costs
are estimated in February 1985 prices. Taxes and duties estimated at $13.7
million are included, as well-as physical contingencies representing about 13
percent of base costs (10 percent for technical assistance, equipment and
vehicles, 15 percent for civil works, and 20 percent for studies, maintenance
contracts and the OMVVM and OMV Gafsa-Jerid pilot irrigation schemes) and
price contingencies totalling about 20 percent of base costs plus physical
contingencies (8.0 percent for 1985, 9.0 percent for 1986-88, and 7.5 percent
thereafter for foreign costs; 10.0 percent for 1985-88 and 9.0 percent
thereafter for local costs). The project includes 156 staff-months of
long-term and 152 staff-months of short-term consultant services for technical
assistance and studies.
43.      The proposed Bank loan of $22.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost of the project, with the exception of on-farm development costs
and part of the technical assistance component. The Bank loan would represent
36 percent of the total cost, or 47 percent of the total cost net of taxes,



- 16 -
and 80 percent of the foreign exchange cost. The Government would allocate
about 96 percent of the loan proceeds to the OMVs, through their respective
annual budgets, with the balance used by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) to
finance technical assistance, training and studies. Incremental on-farm
development costs would be financed by beneficiaries (10 percent of total cost
net of taxes and duties) and credit institutions (10 percent), under standard
terms and conditions for seasonal credit (interest rates ranging from 6.75-8.5
percent). Cofinancing amounting to $2.4 million equivalent (5 percent of
total net costs) would be provided by bilateral and/or multilateral sources
for technical assistance. The Government has already started making contacts
in this regard and prospects are favorable. It was agreed at negotiations
that cofinancing arrangements would be finalized by January 1, 1986 (Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)). If cofinancing should not materialize, the
Government has indicated it would provide the financing from its own
resources. The Government would finance the balance of total project net
costs (28 percent). Retroactive financing of up to $500,000 of the Bank loan
is proposed for foreign expenditures incurred after February 1, 1985 for
consultant services and computer equipment to help set up the OMVs' accounting
system and MIS. Details of project costs and financing are contained in the
Loan and Project Summary.
44.      Procurement.  Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below. Equipment and vehicles would be procured by ICB. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would be granted a margin of preference equal to 15 percent or
the actual customs duties, whichever is lower. When bulking is not feasible,
contracts not exceeding $150,000 equivalent, and totalling no more than
$300,000 equivalent for each OMV and $3.0 million equivalent in aggregate, may
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures. Contracts
for building OHV workshops and civil works for establishing OMVVM's pilot
sector would be awarded on the basis of LCB, as the scattered nature of these
works would not interest foreign contractors. LCB procedures are generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project. Laws and regulations regarding these procedures in Tunisia are being
reviewed in the Bank in order to reach a judgement as to whether they are
acceptable for Bank-financed contracts. The findings of the review will be
discussed with the Tunisian authorities and agreements will be sought
regarding requiree changes. Civil works for rehabilitating OMVVM's
irrigation, drainage and feeder road systems would be carried out on force
account, since the quantities of work involved are difficult to define in
advance and the works are scattered and must be carried out without disrupting
irrigation operations. Equipment for OMV Gafsa-Jerid's water saving
experiments, as well as office equipment and furniture for the project unit in
MOA, easil! obtained off-the-shelf, would be procured through local shopping.
Contracts for Bank-financed consultant services would be awarded in accordance
with Bank guidelines. All bidding packages and contract awards for works and
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 and $150,000, respectively,
as well as for computer and radio equipment and Bank-financed technical
assistance, would be subject to prior Bank approval, resulting in prior Bank
review of about 86 percent of total contract value.
45.      Disbursements.  The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a
period of seven years as follows: 50 percent of local and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for pipes, flumes, workshops and OMVVM's pilot sector;
65 percent of local and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for equipment and
vehicles for irrigation O&M and the project unit; 75 percent of local and 100
percent of foreign expenditures for electromechanical equipment and rehabil-



-17-
Procuremrnt Method
Project Element             ICLB.                           OJther       N.A.      Total Cost
---------------(US$ million)--------------
Buildings (workshops)      -      -        0.7   (D.2)   -       -         -        0.7   (0.2)
Stock pipes & flumes       1.9  (0.8       -       -      -      -         -        1.9   (0.8)
Stock electra-
mechanical equipment      3.7  (2.8)      -       -      -      -          -       3.7   (2.8)
Heavy  UH equipment        3.0  (1.8)      -                     -         -        3.0   (1.8)
Vehicles & other
equipment                 6.5  (4.0)      -       -      -      -         -        6.5   (4.0)
Rehabilitation &
iantenar,ce contract    10.4  (7.8)       -       -      -      -          -      10.4   (7.8)
Technical assistance.
training. studies         -      -        -              1.4  (1.1)       -        1.4   (1.1)
Rehabilitation works
Equipment              2.5  (1.6)      -      -       -     -          -        2.5   (1.6)
Works                  -      -        -       -      2.6   -          -        2.6
Water flow monitoring
system                    0.3  (0.2)      -      -       -     -          -        0.3   (0.2)
Pilot sector               1.6  (0.8)      1.S   (0.5)   -      -          -        3.1   (1.3)
Gafsa
Water saving
experiments               -      -        -       -      0.2  (0.1)       -        0.2   (0.1)
Hinistrv of Aariculture
Technical assistance
& training                -      -        _       _      2.7  (0.2)       -        2.7   (0.2)
vehicles & equipment       0.2  (0.1)      -       -      0.1   -          _        0.3   (0.1)
On-farm Development        -      -        -       -      -      -         9.2      9.2
Oneratina cost OAVs        -      -        -       -      -     -         10.9    10.9
OD. cost Ministry of
Agriculture               -      -        -Z--                 -           .       1.6     _
Total                 30.1 (19.9)      2.2   (0.7)   7.0  (1.4)       21.7    61.0  (22.0)
Mote:  Figures in parentheses are the aounts to be financed by Bank loan.



- 18 -
itationlmaintenance/repair works; and 80 percent of local and 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for- training, studies and Bank-financed technical
assistance and related equipment. To ensure the efficient and timely
implementation of the project, a revolving fund of $500,000 would be
established in a special account at the Central Bank of Tunisia. This fulnd,
corresponding to three months' project needs, would be used to pay e'ligible
expenditures for civil works, goods and consultant services. The Bank would
replenish the fund upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures
paid were eligible for financing out of the fund. Project completion is
expected by June 30, 1991. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1992.
46.      Project Implementation.  The project would be implemented through
existing institutions whose activities would be strengthened and better
coordinated. The MOA would have overall responsibility through two
departments: the DCOMVPI, responsible for overall coordination and monitoring
of project activities including recruitment of consultants for technical
assistance, training and studies, and providing OMVs with required assistance
in managerial and technical matters; and the DPSAE, responsible for
negotiating with OMVs their medium-term development plans, reviewing and
endorsing their annual operating plans and budgets, and monitoring their
performance. The recruitment by DCOMVPI of a Deputy Director, who would act
as Project Manager, would be a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement,
Section 7.01(c)). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that two
specialists (an irrigation lead advisor specializing in O&M and an
electromechanical equipment engineer) to assist DCOMVPI, and a financial
planning and control specialist to assist DPSAE, as well as related Tunisian
counterpart staff, would be recruited by January 1, 1986 (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04 and Annex 4, Section II(b). The core team of experts for DCPPI
is expected to be provided through a multiannual twinning arrangement between
DCP1I and an institution actually in charge of the O&M of irrigation
perimeters. In addition to the above specialists, consultants would be hired
to help the OMUs with financial planning and control, accounting, and MIS
design and set-up, and to help DCOMVPI with training and technical matters.
Terms'of reference for all the project technical assistance are already
available. An essential element of the technical assistance program would be
to train DCPPI, DPSAE and OMV staff, at both managerial and technical levels,
through action-oriented seminars and on-the-job training.
47.      It would be a condition of effectiveness that a Coordination and
Monitoring Committee be established (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)), and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the following year's operating
and development plans ard proposed budget and financial plans for the project
and the OMVs, as approved by this Committee, would be presented to the Bank
for comment no later than November 30, 1985 and September 30 of each year
thereafter (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)(ii)). Project activities would be
carried out by the OMVs in their respective command areas. For the
rehabilitation of their HEM equipment, the OMVs would enter into a multiannual
(three year) contract with one or several enterprise(s) to rehabilitate OMUs'
main pumping stations, ensure regular preventive maintenance and carry out
necessary repairs, and train OMVs' staff. Terms of reference for this
contract are available and detailed technical specifications would be prepared
with the support of the project technical assistance. At the end of the first
contract, OMVs would elect either to renew it or to take over all maintenance
work if their staff has been sufficiently trained to do so effectively. As
regards OMVVM's rehabilitation works, CMVVM, which has the necessary technical
capacity and experience, has already prepared the preliminary engineering



- 19 -
designs and would prepare the detailed design and execute the works by force
account.
48.      Rehabilitation of the OMVs' Accounting and Financial System.  The
problems with the OMVs' financial and planning management were described in
para. 37(a) and (b). Under the project, a comprehensive set of measures would
be taken to improve the ONVs' MIS. Standard accounting principles and
procedures for recording OHVs' operations have been agreed, and assurances
were obtained at negotiations that a circular to the OMVs requiring their use
would be issued by December 31, 1985 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.12). All OMVs
would then establish their opening financial statements (as of December 31,
1985) before April 30, 1986 on the basis of these new accounting principles.
As a second phase, an efficient MIS would be defined and set up by December
31, 1986 in three OMVs (OKVVM, OMVs of Kairouan and Gafsa-Jerid), chosen for
their representativity. The new MIS would be introduced in the remaining
seven OMVs by June 30, 1987. One result of this process would be the
budgetary separation of the OHVs' different activities: public services
(extension), commercial services and irrigation services, thus allowing annual
operating allocations from the Government to be activity-specific and
non-transferable. Funding for OMVs' irrigation maintenance operations would
be clearly identified in their budgets, in amounts satisfactory to the Bank.
Assurances on the above points were obtained at negotiations (Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.01(b)(iii), 5.02, and Schedule 5, paras. 5 and 6).
49.      Planning and Monitoring of the OMVs' Activities.  A key feature of
the project would be the preparation and implementation by three OMVs (those
listed in para. 48) of program-contracts (PCs) negotiated with the
Government. Each OV would prepare a medium-term development plan (through
1991), which would identify the OMV's investment objectives, projected
evolution of activitiv.a and productivity improvement, and indicate the
corresponding financial requirements and anticipated sources of financing. On
the basis of this development plan, a PC would oe signed between the OV and
the Government, setting forth the OMV's obligations with respect to goals and
performance (including precise, monitorable performance indicators) and the
Government's obligations concerning institutional and regulatory matters (in
particular, staffing and pricing) as well as financial commitments (subsidies,
grants). The PC experiment, if successful, would be later extended to the
other OMVs which would, in any case, also prepare medium-term development
plans to be discussed with and approved by the Government. An important
element in preparing the OMV's respective development plans would be the
definition of a staffing plan (number of staff and technical skills required)
aimed at improving staff productivity and decreasing the cost of OMVs'
services. (Salaries currently account for about two-thirds of OMVs' total
operating expenses). The staffing plan would define the measures necessary to
achieve the target structure within a specified period (by December 31, 1989),
including attrition, restricted recruitment of certain categories of
personnel, transfers and training programs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the medium-term development plans for all OMVs, and PCs
where applicable, would be submitted to the Bank for review by September 30,
1986 and finalized by March 31, 1987 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
50.      Promotion of WUAs.  As noted earlier (para. 37(c)), existing WUAs -
the AICs - are cumbersome and ineffective. The Government is currently



- 20 -
revising the AIC legislation to decentralize operational respousibilities and
simplify the present highly rigid management procedures. It is also, in
connection with the ongoing Central Tunisia Irrigation Project (Loan
2234-TUN), defining the legal framework for the creation of smaller, more
flexible WUAs in areas not covered by AICs to take responsibility for the O&M
of small irrigated areas and act as counterparts of the OMVs for the
management of PPIs and the resolution of disputes. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would take legal measures satisfactory to
the Bank by December 31, 1985 to establish new decentralired operating
procedures for the AiCs, and by December 31, 1987 to create new WUAs, and
define their role and contractual relationship with the OMVs as well as
specific measures to promote their creation, for example by granting a rebate
on water charges for farmers who join WUAs. Assurances were also obtained
that these measures would be implemented thereafter (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.09 and 3.10).
51.      Cost Recovery.  As noted in para. 37(d) and (e), the OMVs' commercial
activities run at a loss. The ultimate objective is to divest the OMVs from
these services, in favor of the private/cooperative sector which can provide
them better and more efficiently. This divestiture would-be achieved by
removing Government subsidies and raising prices to their real cost, thus
allowing the private sector to compete. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations as regards the full costing of commercial services, including
overhead, by December 31, 1988 (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 9). The
Government has also indicated its commitment to the introduction of interim
price increases, starting in 1986, to immediately improve the OMVs' financial
position, and to the ultimate divestiture of OMVs from their commercial
activities.
52.      As noted in para. 37(f), continued improvement in irrigation O&M cost
recovery is essential. It would be a condition of effectiveness that the
Government take all necessary measures to promote the adoption by che OMVs of
a binomial water rate structure composed of a compulsory fixed charge to
encourage water use up to a given level and guarantee OMVs a minimum revenue,
and a volumetric water charge above this level (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01(a)). Assurances were also obtained at negotiations that the two OMVs
with major problems of water underutilization - OMVVM and OMV Jendouba - would
introduce the binomial structure by December 31, 1985 and June 30, 1986,
respectively (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). Assurances were also obtained
that full O&M ce3st recovery would be achieved in all OMVs by January 1, 1995
(except in the center part of the country where ability to pay is a constraint
- para. 53), and to this end that water charges for all OMVs would be
increased by a minimum 9 percent p.a. in real terms (Loan Agreement, Section
3.07(ii)). The latter assurances are consistent with cost recovery covenants
under ongoing Bank-financed irrigation projects, and should allow full OEM
cost recovery over 65 percent of all PPIs by the end of the project period and
over 95 percent by 1995.
53.      An analysis of representative farm models shows that farmers' ability
to pay may prove a constraint to full OM cost recovery within ten years in a
few PPIs in the center part of the country (covering less than 5 percent of
all PPIs) with present farming and cropping systems.  However, future shifts
to higher value crops and more productive technologies, due to extension
efforts, could increase farmers' income and ability to psy and the possible
level of OWM cost recovery.  Under the project, OMVs would set up a permanent
system to monitor farm incomes and ability to pay, with a view to establishing
appropriate water charge levels.



- 21 -
54.      MonitorinR and Audits.  DCOMVPI would submit semi-annual progress
reports on thr physical and institutional aspects of the project, and DPSAE
would submit annual reports on the implementation of the OMVs' medium-term
development plans, annual operating plans, budgets and financial results, and
on the evolution of performance indicators under their respective PCs or
development plans. Assurances were obtained that the Government would
undertake a mid-term review of physical and policy progress with the Bank by
December 31, 1988. To this end, it would prepare a report outlining progress,
issues and recommendations by June 30, 1988 based, in part, on a management
audit it would undertake of the three OMVs participating in the PC process
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.11). DCOMVPI would establish and maintain separate
project accounts. These as well as the OMVs' overall financial statements
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Assurances were obtained that these audited financial statements and reports
for both the project and the OMVs would be presented to the Bank within six
months after the end of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Sections 4.01 and
4.02).
55.      Justification.  The dirict quantifiable benefits of the project arise
mainly from: (a) cost savings from improved O&M, due to avoidance of repeated
investments to rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure; b) increased
agricultural and livestock production, farm incomes and employment, due to
more reliable water delivery; c) foreign exchange savings; and d) improved
financial situation and autonomy of the OMVs, which would have a favorable
impact on the Government budget.  At full development (Year 20), the value of
annual incremental production generated by the project (in 1984 prices) is
estimated at $29.8 million. This would consist mainly of fruits, vegetables,
sugar beet, fodder, milk and meat, which would all be easily absorbed by the
local or export markets. Prices of irrigated crops are either free or have
been increasing faster than inflation and the price of related inputs; they
provide adequate incentives. Using conservative estimates, income
improvemerts for the 42,000 project farmers range from 17 to 196 percent.
Employment increases would be equivalent to about 23,000 jobs; of this,
two-thirds would be additional family labor and one-third additional hired
labor. The net annual foreign exchange savings attributable to the project's
incremental productibn and rehabilitation cost savings at full development is
$15.2 million. The measures proposed under the project on pricing and cost
recovery for OMVs' services and irrigation water would reduce fourfold the
OMVs' cumulated operating deficit over 1986-1995.  The net positive impact of
the project on the Government's finances (revenues from project-related taxes
and duties, Bank loan disbursements, and decreased outlays for OMVs' operating
deficits, minus project-related investment costs, salaries, subsidies on farm
inputs and debt service on the Bank loan) would be about $43 million in
current terms over the first five years of the project; the net annual surplus
would increase considerably thereafter, reaching about $33 million (in 1990
prices) by Year 20. The project economic rate of return (ERR), based on
rehabilitation cost savings and incremental crop and livestock benefits, is 29
perc-ent. The ERRs for the 10 individual OMVs range from 20 to 36 percent.



- 22 -
56.      Risks.  The main potential risks which could adversely affect the
economic viability of the project are: (a) a lower than expected agricultural
production response to increased availability and better timeliness of water
delivery, and (b) lower than expected rehabilitation cost savings because of
sub-optimal use by the OMVs of the technical assistance, training,
organizational improvements and maintenance equipment and facilities provided
under the project. Sensitivity tests carried out on the basis of these risks
show that the resulting economic rates of return remain satisfactory and the
project remains viable even in the unlikely event that all the OMVs would be
affected simultaneously. Switching value analysis shows that crop and
livestock benefits would have to fall by 90 percent or rehabilitation cost
savings by 138 percent to reduce the ERR below 12 percent. Similarly,
investment and O&M costs would have to jump by 236 and 247 pe:cent,
respectively, to threaten the economic viability of the project. Such adverse
changes are unlikely.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness wou-' be recruitment of the
Project Manager; establishment of the Coordination and Monitoring Committee;
and taking of necessary measures to introduce a binomial water rate structure.
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 13, 1985
Washington D.C.



- 23 -
T AD LK  3                                      IPAQ I
'TUNISIA             - OCIAL JInCATM  DATA BW
TmunISIA                           HUREC    maps (UfLOU-  AVERAGED) p
NOSY               (HUT EmIT ETDIATE) Lb
inoLk    197(   RC1NTk        XMIDL INCOME         21100K DEC
'1960/b  1x7o       STINAiE.  W. AFRICA A NW ET           T. MnHICA   CO A
a            JTHUS Q. U)
TOTAL                             163.6      163.6       163.6                .
AGRICULTURAL                       68.8       70.3        72.2
QlP m CAPNIT (1050                   21O       340.0       1390.0            1149.6               21WI.6
mNRG   mwEnEmu P  CAPI=
(KILOGRAS OF OIL EQIlVAEZI)       119.0      230.0       497.0            622.1                  g95.5
POPLAIO AND rmL  XtISTC
POPULATION.NID-TRAR (THOUSADS)    4221.0    5127.0      668L3
USUN POPtATIlOS (I OP TOTAL)       36.0       43.5        53.6             46.2                   66.5
POPUATION FROJSCTIO
POPUnAION IN TEUR 2WO (CHILL)                           10.0
STATIONAY POPUIATION (HILL)                             2L6.
POPULTION KSISIII                                        1.8
POPULATION I 31?
PU SQ. tl.                       25.8       31.3        39.9              36.3                  35.7
PER SQ. 1. AClL LAID             61.4       7Z.9        90.3            461.7                   92.4
POPULATIO  AGe SRIURu (Z)
0-14 IRS                        43.4       46.2        39.9              43.6                  39.9
15-4 us                          525        50.0        56.2             53.1                  56.0
65 AIID ASE                       4.2        3.8         3.8              3.3                   4.1
POPULATION CGlRT RATE (1)
TOTAL                             1.8 le     1.9 /k      2.2 e            2.8                    2.4
URBAN                             3.2        3.8         3.9              4.5                    3.6
-mr1D5 SIM RATE (PM MMon)          46.6       39.4        33.9             40*4                   31.3
CRUDE DEAT RATE (PE aNI)           19.1       14.3        9.2              11.5                   8.1
ROSS REPROUCITII RATE               3.5        3.2         2.1              2.8                   2.0
FAMILY PLANNIC
ACCEPTOU* ANNLOf (R0US)           ..       29.2       180.9 /d
USES CZ OF mAID  Hox)            ..         ..         41.0 K           2Z.2                   40.3
FOOD AM1102IIIIXI
IIImEX W FOOD P1OD. MCUITA
(1969-71-100)                      97.0       96.0       12LO              97.3                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPY OF
CAORIES C( OF RERITS)            83.0       8LC        116.0             110.8                 110.6
PROMDEINS (RAS PE DAY)           32.0       57.0        74.0             70.1                   67.3
OF lIUCH ANIMAL MD PULSE       13.0       14.0        23.0 If           17.8                  34.1
'cII  (ACGS 1-4) na'n UlT          36.1       20.G        6.0              14.o                   5-J
bAL
LIE EXPECT. AT BIRTR (TEAlS)       48.3       53.0        61.1             57.5                  64.7
INFART KURT. RATE (PR TOUS)       15a.9      121.0       65.0             101.5                  60.6
ACCESS TO SAtE WATElt (EPM)
TOTAL                              ..       49.0        70.0 I           59.7                   65.4
Unm                                ..        ..         91.0             84.5                  78.1
RA                                 ..                   46.0             3B.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EXCSETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       62.0         ._                ..                   52.9
DWW                                        100.0        42.0               ..                  67.0
RURAL                              ..       34.0         ..             . ..                    24.5
POPULATION PE PYSTiciN          10030.0     530.0       3690.0           4345.1                1917.7
POP. PElt NURSI  PERSON             ..       730.0      890.0            1631.1                 815.8
POP. PER HOSPIAL RED
TOTAL                           410.0      410.0       460.0 /d          632.9                 367.2
URmAN                           230.0 /b   31L0        350.0 7f         545.5                 411.S
RURAL                          1040.0    1270.0       1230.01K         2513.5                 2636.3
ADEISSIO5 PER HOSPITAL  n            ..       24.1       23.0 hi           26.2                  27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSIHOLD
TOTAL                              ..        5.1]        L 5.5 A
UmAN                               ..        5.1         5.5               .
RURAL                              ..        5.1         5.6.
AVEAG NO. OF PERSO9S/ROd
TOTAL                              ..        3.2]/       3.1k
URBN                               ..        2.7        L2.
RUAL                               3. .6 l               3.8.
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF 51E.LL)
TOTAL                               .       24.0 11     34.2 /k          46.2
UN                                 ..        ..         6a.2 7a          77.7
RURL                               ..        ..          6.0 7LO          16.1



- 24 -
TVALt 2W                                          PACR 2
-   TA  IUNDCA!   ATA lRT
z~~~~~~~l WMES gw1 sX tuIu                             ^LU
OT                  (MOSTSZCN  ZSU1TE X}
min  zca newu mcinin
1960A     197,ot     Rli    L    W. AnZCt   NO       U      T. uMcA A CAR
ADTUSD EDLINT RATOS
122KART   TOTAL                   66.0       101.0        106.0              08.3                  105.4
PALS                    11.0      121.0        119.0             1O0.S                  106.3
IUIX                    43.0       60.0         92.0              73.6                  104.3
SZCOUDATs TOTAL                   12.0        23.0        30.0               43.0                   43.2
KALI                    19.0       33.0         37.0              52.3                   42.3
3N1L14                   5.0       13.0         23.0              33.0                   44.5
VOCATIOXUL (X oF 6SCONDAMY)         23.5        11.1        25.2               10.3                   33.6
PUPTh-TEACRU RATIO
P1U1AXY                           61.0        47.0        38.0               30.3                   30.1
sUcUDA1                           16.0        21.0        21.0               23.1                   16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)             15.5        24.0 .      63.0  j            43.5                   79.5
PASEISR CARS/TDISAIND POP           10.5        13.0        16.3 ^             17.8                   46.0
RADIO RZCzxVZRS/TBUlAmD PO         40.3        75.7       157.0              136.6                  225.6
TV REZCEIVERS/TUOSAND 10P            0.1        14.0        47.1               46.1                  107.2
NSPA1 CLDAILY CmnUAL
IHYSRES!") CIRCULATIO
* PU TUODUND POPULAT              19.6        15.9        43.6 /d            31.2                   63.5
CIN3I AIMRAL A      STZUPANCE/CAPITA  1.6          -         1.5                1.7                    2.8
LamFOCE
TOTAL UAOS FORCE (TUOUS)          1138.0      1215.0      1751.0
vnlm   OPcLuT)                     6.0         7.7         6.5               10.;                   23.2
AGRICULTURE (PECE)                56.0        50.0        35.0               42.4                   31.5
INDUSTr (PERCENT)                 18.0        21.0        32.0              27.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATIOI RATE CPERCENT)
TOTAL                             27.0        23.7        26.2               26.2                   32.2
HAL                               50.2        4.2         47.3               46.4                   49.3
KSL1:                              3.3         3.6         4.5                 .8                   15.2
ECONOMIC DENmmpir RATIO             .1.8         2.1         1.7                1.8                    1.4
PZRCENT OF PRIVATE 15CUSE
UECIVED BY
IlUEST 52 OF ROIlEROIlS             ..          ..        17.0 I
HIIHIC5 207 OF HOUSED               ..          ..        42.0
lIadST 20 OF    RS                  _.          ..         6.0                 .
INST 402 OF0       OLD              ..          ..        15.0 .
VOla!! TAPUT GR2
ISTZIASED A5OOLUTZ POVERTY IRCOS
LT=  (us$ 5PU CAPIT
33                                  ..          ..       204.0 Af           276.8                  26L2
RAL                                 ..          ..        97.0  t           177.2                  164.0
EST1TD RELATIVE POVERTY DC
LZVEL (tW PER CAPITA)
ORRAN                _              ..          ..       193.0 Af          402.6                   522.8
RUR                                 .,          ..       193.0 f           254.9                   372.4
UTEXA2S D POP. ELSI ANSOLT
POVERTY DICOIE JL (I)
RUI                                 ..          ..        20.0 If              ..
R                                   .           ..        15.0                .
.OT AVAIAMZ
NOT APPLICAI1
Abo  poop arago for ach indicator an popaetlon-mlhed arltmtU   ane. Covepg of coomtrfaeSmg the
ndicator. dapand  on availablity of data and Is ot ulfora.
A    UVoLas otberulse noted. let. for 1960" refer to any year bet1    1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; ad data for "Most Reaent btlnete  between 1980 nd 1982.
/e  D>  to migtio pnosulatio  roth rate Im lowr tbi  rate of natural Icre; /d 1979; ~   1983; /f 1977;
. Acceo to pipe  vtar only; /h 1962; A  1976; LJ 1966; A  1975;
JN.  1984



25 -
g _. ", . _ _, .......a .....doe.  .. .o.. f.. M.ftee .s,e._,.41,_ gm M.e.  .0..IRes.. ". Ses...... .. . _u ... s_e_Z,",_NM ' W,..........a.....""'..- u 
?                ccc1.   ' ieee491. ceecce ececec, icii Ek   oe difutecces, ec  .ic e Ce Rews"ed ci.. dt ucced c   Me. -SMA"R.R ceeweLC.eli
deeccib  WA-. i eclletfl. Redeemc  su_.. _e  mnew_. _nclii. -_ deiMeewe _cc _cIrc                       -I
lee t. ic     e.  Me (II Rh- c   e..ci, Il,, .1 cc ReBRect cane, dfill S,.  .....         club .1 ec MO- cc.  se   an  t  mcci,  -   C St
nejcn-u. E.v    m      .          a te c i-_.ce  cuep cc  kn- g tee..    etu tl.cc   -c     SIS c m1wc   RIe, ~   -cc. .ccceccuie.ci
cCilft- eele    Seeu  MII.iee  cc. dec- SWi  -Biefe  ,-- ceiee  eccic  rewcc.iic    eece - .ec, mc  eWclntc, eqcu  -ecile  te
c_ci,   a. cc I ci t           Sn 4ceccceec.. cem-e-e mc,. .e             -In  Re.I 1d.         1          c               c e    e-    1  cc. dd .c
.-e         I                                                                ft"J.cc crcr              reecc_cice dtr4de Si  .    ci cie_1   c ._ 
- -zZ ?ccc u ic            *-rcetrg m   .- wc veee ene   M.                                     c. t                   i         lied.
R       -  cn i          - acickic tect'      t ; ;...  .cuiecic  ic... .c. ece mce.
c*  we _c __dci-.                                                               Peccicict cci ece e  c . il_   ectr-. _  - _._<  pefiieeta.
MO..                                                           z_ o- .SW  e       ed eq  _           . _ ..i i          e  c c
ac" mn_i -   c                                                                  we cc c m   c.  cacic . _cci d niui c  c     ce      c 1_e
ewe. __c. we eec, dccc.                     ;e cc _i_I_ tcccc eec ehieccice. awiccemec. uccieR eic.p!c,   . e iei d
IMS. go.6 .4 OWE d.                                                                 R. M cc  * iech *1. utgeu.  ..ac.. _ee   cl
I c         -      t cqfc.cec eceemicce ci ecm.ie.c                    cedleci eme _w         ad-t -ecC"ci i d   cccc_ *-      ep- c- --ct
ecc    e c   eMetet gmed %VAc. *--       c_               weecee e.   ccii.See        .) ece c-lci- c-aeec  iemice  cc-
MLi geetke.c. cjSeldCiIe  cc icueic,- ci cii cacbeee  P.. SWpIMc  ccGc..            pccec. IWceeec r. ci Lice-c I-iceci-ec
i_c  deBYeeci mec, *                                                                                                        .mei   cc  _  .werc
I - So .c c   c, cc cm. lope. MI Ia                                 .e                         - __. _        -  wen
icc ecei  jc te   e     uelm cci aefet oceiec-aifciyidc                      c  Ctheir ccc. mL.  A b-d. .  Nvcci. .cF -i Vi WS b. ceece  cc
n-ceeeec oie. ccc0. we "mI dc.,                                            ccc       14 cci ce.eeccee  c." .
wd ..       w i      m c. _m   ied  cle __ rcMi.E
_ -_P CA.mp-_--   -A tecc=cctr   t=e                  - cm                  ipc c. Sopprm  c ck _.  we ..&.ci we-r_ * rSc t- c.i
Re~.  ilcni   -mc. rc _eccc  m_    celce ci em                                   i-eePIe  -ec.
r_u _   -I__t   * ri. Sepeoe-    cc Mc  ece ee-ie  c.r _eV.                    ctc vet                                                  -_  __ ce
_c_ meuc} t _ls.!tc  cc  ciiv meie  vc c      tii   d iee  tmt
_09    _* I-A  "  *-a  o o. _   eRrerD mm| It.1   _ e Fr.%                                                    R.I.",t  _ 1Zl
pimeeo pcC.-   lich 1w  Er_  er., _c cr  mcc. _ _i _r_ _c_c_ rr__i_
euniaem  cC c.cice, we_ reacted _   .1                -1.                          C-L _%_ -1    I _e14ce  _ _-I.
Ji!!ii_!e  _ cc    cc eca a|_r.nse rwe .c.c.ic ciectcc                            nhcn,cz,.-tcicEznc  _- 1ic-  r_ii rcc _w_e_r iirr
.SIR _ - t. t_,11, teemici ft A.- c_ecp_e Becf              ,                       , _llbet cecte c. ce
PR-tm P_,_t              _ 1l_ "_ "__ls fr   t*l*_.I|._ __P   P f_f 0-   "_f
_i-     Sce    t -i t111i  iceea ct ier _l    t      n   ..P-u s                             ip       pt    m      ec _               c  c    -c
R    _1 _i                                           cacc. c cec i   _    c. .                                                            c _
*c  ci  ccci.r in. *_c _  necec  ccZZ ccci e              . ccI cc                 nem  c1i1 ecceceic eccie  cctme , cmsei  c eu
cin-eb 1_.e cc c_c.. S. e Sees  cece   ,   m -Spee         ic...ii                                                             t          Cc
Iccc I cc pcieed  uteegeccca  c11-iccicc               I        _        I c          -cicci        -  SWiL c S ri e   t-  t       c }c  M" .c.cm1,
am.we cc cc.ci  ccS.  c ecicec, tc  c icteen-                                R-ic  Ri.ccccicccc   ci I...ice. Icdefi ci ep.ce-dc,eirc
ci. cc ce      . a-  _Be elU. irc -cc  .cT  cicc. c_ cccccti                                                   _    .I_ c eec           Iwo
4 -- - R_  z1 T               - - -d        --                                 !* .-  |--  *_    __  -           et1-  R-lSw "f.S    f   _,l_. 
ctflmSC. ecccci   ietctec ccc.Io cecececctcm      emcc    c..ccc.cp  .inecc. - ic..  Ccc-eticd  cce-
am.   t- d.                                                                   'c.t- t-..-tait -cce,  - uicicre. eR- ecee.tce __  ic  ccincec _c _c c _  --,
neWnu "MmWi .             9i..                                                    recal "  l  -9- d-ueici  ci..icue  I.~ cic cc  L-Bc  ;c 
iiliVacc  ccci. cc... cc Sc-dcc_".                                               c tu Fo- bccIc. -o  rel   - U     . _i.             eic__  see d. .
-Art cm.c _Wi -Sc -t d h-ccc
cni ccet    -cic  _e _c   we _oci cc _ece ci cit-c.                      *                 crc  _c *e       ucfucce_  r-Z ueeco _ce imiec..
imicicee o.t c.         N        __ -J. c- *, 1. _e -1                                     _ cw   rc  ci c_             _ . c_                _ce
i       c.--c .-c-. t _ -      R.                                                *-. *-  eec * *           etie        te    *-rc
C                                                                                 cic           cic Cc m      e   -  cc-- -d _Ii-ci c_ *r.-_     r
MiricetIeni.   d.cic   dci. a,ele cc:m  uiee-icci
t E - rs_ rfr _r _r, .~~~~~~~~~~P - 
r _ -  A_U.  _-C  _i ie..c crA   r_iC ccci                    cc    cflcc wew Ce_us _icie  __c .ic.cccc       _, rS ccci    ilii.U.
-                                                                                  e.Iwo.e _ci   cet, c Wr cc                 i aem. _  _  e    u c P_i -de
ecip._ . _cOcee tiii _eetee cci _cii. _reb.lcec mecitcee _c drred-ecd __                                                                      eem r-
_  *__  r _rlr} _<W rr *n r  _h P.           Cr_    Md_                 ROSSn       41dt - t       f_ R-t  _   _-       _ _Mye
_r_eei _cecic r_  riii c     _cic c      __ d.i,cci cccCyo.c -                                       _bi  _  _c  r_     d -t      t_  cWeC m- -..
=                                                           wfrr,|_%_ r - tw fr_E - *-CL _|s   _ f_t - rdr_ , ch-     TV  -    r
_ __ i tce  I_ _r_ _r_r    cice ccp _! ciluri m_cri*r1             . cim- _     _        t d           -                                 W   f-
ittttceccci c    weedto    ccci cl-cc ictn   c.e                          Zec11ci t  !mtstr   npic ceucc   CmceCecee  ec . -ceeie   ,.
_.nitee _eee,ti cc   i c            W- ic d _r_. t_ I      -ee. _ift. Se. Wc m                    i                    _ i   c c   t_* cc.         c
lc.4t-tec  cc sI   . I-SIAT "  -.c1c  O-e i-ie   ttI-  -t-
_e ic  _ce,c                                                                        teccr__ seicc gt_ rt _ _cm. c_c cci ccc dcc
eesrrr _ t_h __ ~~~~~~~~~~~e-4 ur_r t_ _. "_r_ _t r__ Ir r 
cee -riehiccc..c   .e  Ccc.ccit-tde   i.'...ctAfct -Fcuitbt e. c  ecic  i   m   icc Ilc
_  > _ sszZ_ r _rr_. _a_ t r- e- ~~ ud-                                                                        =
S ir_                                    . ci ccc Cm   _ie . rec c  - a        "        _ M,          =rr i .  u iic .  rec              _ mccci  -e
ice_      C  .. ie _ r. *                           W_ -r.                                   i      t ri c=   re_             t.   r       *1 c _    t
R_                                                                                                           p     r     r  sr_ I-  uR ___ 1 s t 
Q..  :r_e.ci r_                      _               Ir e                                               -a Zen r- ce 
eii -m  r_ d         n       ,r    c c  m  .          c Cir,                                          e    . FAi n-c  i       _rr Cci c-l . c
rle~~~~ r_M                             R=~                                           frr _r-rl r-  l r-ot b_t_ S- wR__  -
cc. - cc -e ii            -de-  c.-n. c c__l_ ee-CC. _ii        cm _W     t cc                         F.  M  r.      r            g     ["I
d_ci.                                                                            qccc      c ti-_  (     t _  rci-. c . r r_c _   e- .  1wt - c . c . we _cl - i. c-*e- _-
rsu-_irt-  r b     -r IedD  48     -    _ a C  _0 eew.  u                 C         S-Sn"7    r~ t-_                         ~     t.-l _r_z IV"  I-ID  r
__.            _           I          .r frl_. gl-. to".  _4 low                     _ r ,   trr.r_l I I_ot od-
*-                                                                                 71                           r                            _-ac -   * __ S S sso  r  DSdwr_     
V..  ccc ccc.!. cC retictee    Swip"-cidcc-  W               m  P.                            C ccc   -cc -9 ccii.ile.1we _ ccuelc. 2_foci
ic. ASwelcI  wM!     meic ie-ct. peed-tee.                                         MISc. rIWO  Ie m   dcc,   e._  w   Wet c LIS.  cKtcrec 11pW     I
_m i. we    e  tc ccm.    w eet- ctde -eci iced. -_c _.                          iciticct M-we.et   c                 ietic. tw  tic  ccci ce
__-eccee          ci cm   i-ce6e td _oSee  Ce dc.Omc.     ,i_                             ue                  t
cce  w -md 5, Mc   edc .eieCc ci-4. i   mc.                               1h . a              ,-Sic    Meciue  c    tI -cI we  Rcc 
tecceely we made  _-da_Ie       ce e--_t_ n-.-. ccr_.c          i--B  Itci Bad ct-44t.
Pefmcciccic;c  ceecec (cece ccc dej - iiicic   c  W-                                                  R-c~ ~ acC  emCttc   m   ecc,ccncic   t- 
tee -in  IL -emic ccchcm  br goe rcc- Cc ccm                                   untc
_ci  meu. to  n-  SC  ci n-."d ci           -1 .ccii-  O   -
=i mccc ce  -11 lca smci  c.W _        . -&-L P    S _ a                                    C ca
cccii. m oeat c,      -. un      a ci1-.l. ciii we tw   dcii                     icteeic  I ibieci           ...c Ccci!6 ieec..qec- ic   e ec
_U    WeA  _ I% ed _S_ opl. 1__4. _IP  -A19   dR
~~~~~~~~~~~9-.                                 M-              I d                                         -f.1-1  d -d~9-eM
cmdece cm cee-ci weC-c  cc    1 ,cidci d1.-el aWe we--  tii                        eceit              c dcie  eIcic    -cere                    cce
W. R.lccRi
o.!ei me t1 c.ea ccci Ccci canwe) - n-=! -I Cccii C .   dccd f-  See .mI
we sm c- pm. ciaidii ccccc we  eme  n mcn-te..           icetciteci -eec  un           -Le cc mI-cccc Mi -R-       tw
C P-  C Ur. Re-eI""                 kcu-c   Ic  5c                                   R-_c Ccac  iO.cce
Teiwe alecCuc. mic (cc, eanint - dim!  Cp- cC Cle -dc.-  . .e
pm cwe c. i-it lii ieeci  cmE      ci  eie dcci"F.    -                                                                      -S
ciceeci ci ae, cim.Cimeacid   -      1-ci! c_LI-.    eci -
ccd-ieiciicccc  ccc   -Idec we  m                  -aee mci
i.c0.c -p   cmccc cc %-ci -ct S eed               cc   pi  Cii 
utec  c   tr eam   Cecceciu  e - Int  e!  bc   ebc
dk"d          ciM               SCi-   .- ee   -
ecesle teciii.



-26-
Pqp 4 of 6
WA -   C            -lw
Ahml rGtuM RtsM
Atmum                                    (at 196 Mims)
(Auim U4                    Acaal                 PiuL         Poisatedi
dicow                at   ut prics
191B                urn u80   1      1   m        isv.   ur 19 66   1991
GM dmstie  2cdat jj            8,136.5      6.6   7.4   5.5   0.0   4.8         5.5   4.4    3.5   3.5
Apiculur                      998.6     -468    9.8    6.5  "9.9    2.7    IL6    2.0    2.5   2.5
IO&APM7                      2,503.7     10.8   9.0   6.8   0.3    6.7        3.7   3.2    3.2   3.3
Service                      3,54L6       8.4   7.7   6.6    L6    3.9         5.0   3.9    3.9   3.9
Causqt|im                      6,454.5      4.1   12.7   7.5   3.4   5.9        4.9   4.3    4.1   3.8
Gra. ines.                     2,402.6      6.3   0.9   15.1    17   -0         4.5  -3.3    -5    2.8
EKiyof so cu ad IIWS           2,863.3     2L4    0.1   3.4  "6.9    L4         2.2   9.3    4.5   2.7
liPOrts of gacI aB U           3,583.9     15.1   4.5   13.0   0.9   -LB        L8    3.0    3.0   3.0
CCOM  otim;l pcodut            8,24L9       6.8   7.3   5.8   0.3   5.0         5.0   3.6    3.4   3.4
Cms utim  m                    1,787.4     15.2  -4.7    0.7  -9.8    1.4       48    4.3    0.3    17
deflator (1960  1OD)                       87.2  100.0  llL4  12.9  1410    1SL0
Endow ema                                   2.6   2.47   2.03   L69   1.47       L29
Eime of GP st  .c ptice co                        Aerp Amal luwm  (Z)
(at c t prces) 2/                           (at Ct     u| _ric..)
1971    1976    1981     183    196        L991   19-76      1976-61      1981-6        1986-91
Cug. dawstic prohc /1  100.0   100.0   100.0   10.    100.O   100.0    8.8              5.8          3.6          3.9
hpicultuu           V19.0    17.8    11.3    12.3      19       12.0     L2          L2          L5           Z.5
istry                5.9    25.2    32.0    30.8    31.2    3Z.1    1.0             L6           3.4          4.5
Service             43.1    44.0    41.8    43.5    42.2    42.1    7.6             6.1          3.8          3.9
Co_umsqidm              80.5    77.3    76.1    79.3    80.8    80.4    9.6             7.6          4.5          3.8
9raM iwetumg            2L5    30.7    32.3    29.5    26.3    23.1   14.1             6.9         -0.4          L3
r-o= of saws ud Ws   24.1    29.1    41.4    35.2    36.4    3LB            5.7         7.7          2.0          5.3
Tqarts of goads mu WS   26.1    37.1    49.8    44.0    43.5    42.4   13.1            11.2          L3           3.
Gr-  1aaoml pm ra        g 9.6    98.7   100.8   101.3   100.2    99.O      L5          6.3          3.4          3.8
Net fator i4.           -0.41   -.3       0.8      13      0.2 -LO   .0      -           -           -
G-ms  1ices  saviw      19.1    21.4    24.7    22.0    20.6    19.6    2.9             2.7          0.1          3.7
n  of CtDP
(a eurcm pDnos)
1976    9l81    1962    153
PUB= FnuIAz
Cuib   re m                                       26.8    31.9    34.2    34.1
zGc mezitK                                        19.9    2L9      26.6    27.3
Surplus (4) or dicit (-                            6.9    10.0      7.6      6.8
CGital apediitie                                  11.3    12L7     10.7    12.4
Famign finmeirg                                    L0      2.6      3.7      L4
1971-76     1976-81      198-%6       19664
QP 8umth rte (Z)                                  8.5          6.3          3.4          3.8
QP per caita paith rae (2)                        5.9          3.6          LO           1.2
IOR                                               2.5          5.1         10.4          6.3
3gina1 avizs roe                                 24.0         22.5          0.4         19.2
Thqact elasicity                                  L5           L9           0.4          0.9
(*M   ld   k Ats l etluxdokw.
A  C1D at m.t prices an caqmuza at fattr m.r
Pkojftmd ygors in  mst  po .
Mw CP a
May 15
066O7, p. 3'



- 27 -
A        I
P1e S of 6
Amount                            ~~~~~~~~~(at 19. Prke3)
at CIKLt  -
ISjitaor                    1965           1979  1990   1981 12     1993            19W    1965   l996   1991
_zmdi   eao.                1,8611           18.0  -0.4    3.9  -6.6   3.8             L7   11.3   4.3    LB
Ckd oil                    832.2           22.9   2.2    .4  -20.0   0.6            -2.1  -3.6   -6.5  -1L2
hgdculz,ga ad fod-
_OCmas inkn=7              143.4           11.4  -31.0   54.3  -3L0   -9.5          25.9   1.2   7.2    3.4
1mmumuu, ar 1              885.5           13.0   4.6   13.0   1L5    8.9            L7   23.1   10.7    6.8
He_diad   iq2o,             3119.0           21L5    0.5   11.7  -0.9  -2.9            1.6   2.8    2.9   3.1
Food                       43L4            26.2  -13.5   291   -7.7   20.7          -4.3   4.6   4.1    2.6
Patrolaim                   36.8           71.4    L6   -.9  46.8    3.0             2.2   3.6   6.1    7.2
trldzuzy ad equi~z          795.5          -9.6  -2.2  .0.9   158  -ILS              5.4  -9.8  -LB    2.5
0~s                       1,52.a3          20.2    5.i   4.8   I10    0.7           -0.8    6.    3.5    2.3
Price lahK
Eea pzie ijdc                              8L5  1.0  116.8  19.3   M0             143.2  147.1  155.3  234.7
Jiat prgi  idm                            85.3   00.0  119  13.3  1L1             148.1  1M6  162.9  l.1
T_ of true iz                              88L5   M.0  10.6   1.o  96.4             96.7  96.4  95.3   97.8
Cmpouiruoof H ae c     m  Teak            ).gq Amz.1 1aovemse
(a amw   iatw                                               ria )
1971   i976   1961  19B3  19116  1991                197-76  19-        N981        W 198691 2/
OD.O  100      0    10    0       10.0                   5.0      7.8       2.3       5.6
Qum oil                     26.8  42.3  53.3  44.7   30.5  23.1                      3.4      6.4      -7       -0.8
Ag-l    ad fi
peocemin iudk. y            35.7  20.6   9.7   7.7   9.7   9.2                       4.4      L4       -L3        3.2
t       ,zfvge.  I  if      37.5  37.1  37.0  47.6   59.8  67.7                      9.2       .2      lL0        8.4
1MP=a                          100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  10D.0  100.0                14.2      10.5      0.7       3.4
Food                        19.6  12.3   1.3   13.9   13.6  15.0                    -L9       13.0      3.0       3.0
P 1rolaull                  13.6   ]L.   19.8  IL1   12.2  15.6                    30.5     13.8      -7.2       7.9
_mbiny . d n cAzia          27.7   31.9   25.4  25.5  22.4  19.2                    1LO       7.2      -2L7        11
Odome                       49.1   4.7   43.5  49.5   51.6  50.0                    12.1      10.9      4.4       3.4
owe of Mrae wadu        Sirn of Trocw. ith         gmm-o lzids uidi         Sim of Tcae $do
1970   1975   1990      1970 !iZ1MSO ]970                                    1970   1975   190
D    nI=    ci MmE
E&ioCc              70.8   60.1   68.7        4.9   21.7   25.4         13.9  -IL1    4.8          9.4    6.1    0.4
-          1hoa              85.9   79.5    BL8        7.1   10.9    7.7          0.7    t.3   7.5          6.3    3.1    3.0
yI  lalues    p         ad deriutives, dmcal, uimf-ams ad o- pood..
06675, p. 2                                                                                                      1Mi an-c



'~~~~~~~~~u 11e
XOlSU ~-                      s                       6sl6
- 4 Oum.  h  wma AS M/
(wiui uSc atrnom -f
Akbma                            Paz.
397b     MY                        Du       HW- JA  Dl 
ULU or Mmt
at 11                a     m               417.0  -35.0  -47L6  -91.5   -7.9   -75              -757.7  -639.9  -70.7  -60.6
fll,m of -1     & e.w                  1,4679.3  ,137.5 3,991.3  3,932.4  3,457.9  3.2   3,113.6 3,01   3,879.3 7,25.3
lmcu of 4adu a                         L, 5 3,493.5 4,36.9 4,63.9 4,2568  3,954.7   3,81.3 4,10.9 4,510  7,.9
Ntc 1  dm                                   -03L  I3    S5.          50.6    51.0      56.3      451    48.       52L      75.1
Oazrtacomt bulmn,_                       -416.5  -3M5.7  -414.0  -6.9  -747.9   -614.2    -71.6  -EUL.   -1.1  -5S
Oi  t pd'ata i o                           32.6    50.9   236O    367.4   420.5    223.9         219.1   215.6   231.9   317.1
Gcs                                          X53.2    50.7    41.5    20.3    19.0      25.4      25.      27.1    29.1    41.6
IZT lam  (VAC)                             214.7   414.6    354.5   295.0   3608    371.4        506.3   417.5   453.2   277.5
Offici0 l                                  5.8    11.9   261.0   274   277.6          .8.8     367.6   42Z.3   3D5.1   236.7
pdw_a                                     4L9   297        815    47.6    63.2    122.6        13W.7    -5.8   14L1    40.7
Ocmr capical                                37.3  -1M66  -143.1    2B.3    -5.4    -21.2         -77.3    -        -        -
a        sin .ecv.  - impl  ia. k ons)      387  -123.9    64.9   -9L1   -27.0          14.7      38.7   -484   -70.1  -34.7
ltiiml                                    306.5  317.5   412.4   51.5   53.5    514.8           553.5   6019   67L0  1,218.
mmer.mdromma                                 1.9      1.2      1i      1.3     L5        L6        1.7      17      L.a      L9
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ Ac nja                        P a
196      2979     19)       981      lh6      3963    16
_. --
Officialgroom                                  53.2     50.7      41.5    20.3      19.0     25.4      25.8
Cm diWas             of LT loi                250.8    637.8    559.1   607.2    629.0    741.8    96S.1
cogona1                                       109.3    140.9    206.4   245.5    256.1    165.7    31L5
BillmmI                                   W0.4    140.0    198.4   239.5    2300    127           223.2
fm                                          8.9      0.2       L0       LI       LO      -         -
chtsr .u1tilsaz                             0.0       0.7      7.0      4.9     154       23.0     78.3
llagr _aaio=1                                 141.5    496.9    352.7   361.7    3tL9    576.1    666.6
Pri.as                                     71.6    378.3    223.5   226.4    255.0    366.        YILS
Offica e%n c_dns                            9.9     49.6      55.5    35.4      AA       87.6    15.3
MItD                                       25.3     55.4      511    69.4       818      89.6      88.0
Octbr atiiacea                             3D.2      13.7     22.6    32.5      2L7       32.9     15.8
0e*b Oucatait  ai  8iMuzd                 1,181.6  3,021.S  3,227.A  3..99  3,2D   0.5  3,65.7  4,165.0
Official                                  976.2  1,5.7   2,03LO  2,1X9.1  2,_.0   2.4780  2,8W5.5
o                                       I27.8    232.0    20.0   319.6    375.5         U.2    480.9
64.1     67.3      67.9    67.5      67.8     67.0      66.2
Odr                                      M76.3  1,55f.7   17ULI  t,762.0  1,906.7  1,976.8  2,38.J
Pd                                         MA6.4  1,16     L,189.4. 1.131    1B132.5   11807   1,319.5
UIiabued  dbc                            L126.8  1,819.8   1925.6 2,0M.7  1,900.7  2,065.9  1,960.7
Taroa d,' eezvmc psmas                       985    3U5A       43.4   517.0    483.3    560.2    6S1.7
h_tem                                      36.9    162.5    215.9   2D.7       1.       189.      221.9
Pilynarm as 2 ewot               6.7     10.1      ILO      13.1     14.0     17.1      2L9
P .. z aslZ           -                       2.2      4.4       4.9     6.1       5.9      6.8       8.3
*xrowe izcmute of nx' lam (CD                 5.5      7.2       6.      8.1       7.6      8.2       9.5
Official                                    4.3      5.6       5.9      6.9      7.1       -         -
Pdisr                                       7.9      9.8      10.5    12.7       9.4       -         -
AwaFW mairity af a  lawm  (Yuaz)             16.3      15.6     17.4    15.6      17.5      13.9     11.8
OfficiaL                                   ZO.4      19.4     19.4    18.2      20.2       -         -
Priw.                                       L.S      9.2       9.2      S.8     10.2       -         -
at 2Id of not Beent:
rw (NO
1IoaziLy st:euctov of debt azeaazaniig co
A zam  de withi 5 y                                              40.1
-otizution da  withn 10 ym                                       74.1
Luat oscm of debt _*EAzd  (
Xe dam rithi fizut yew                                            3.9
h lmmoy  wrt ad up due to iuodio.
868 CP lI-C
y 19S5



29
Page 1 of 2
ruT  STATUS OF  *N   ur araaTrmn *h nWA
A. SIATrISNY OFi      LtAIIC S   TflA CU0TC tI ast Han  21  'ta_
US $ Nilion
Lon or                                                                                          A_nt (Less
Credit                                                                                      -     LAnelatienl
l-         rn             URc                             lum                               nmaL dhur2ed
Forty-one Lous and Credits Fully 01sbursed                                                259.60      75.2
1431       1977       Republic of Tunisia            Irrigatie  ODaveloat                  42.00                 2.47
144S       1977      S#cUOI                         Fourth water Supply                    21.00                 0.77
1611       1978       Republic af Tunisia           Rural Reads (Third Highways)           32.00                11.84
1675       1979       Republic of Tunisia           Second Urban Sewrage                   26.50                 1.9"
1765       1979       ROpublic at Tunisia           Second Urban Oevelomnt                 19.60               10.21
1746       1979       Republic of Tunisia           Second Fisheries                       2S.S6                16.36
1796       1980       Rpublic of Tunisia            Souther  Irrigation                    2S.00                14.83
1797       1980       Ofrice fts Ports fttionaux    Third Pert                             42. S                11.27
1841       1980       Republic of Tunisia           Fourth Highways                        36.50               23.51
164        1930       SotiEti Tunisienn  ae
lEl'ectricitd at dU Gaz       Second Natural Gas Pipeline            27.00               16.21
lass       1980       lanque Mationale de Tunisia   Third Agricultural Credit              30.00                12.S7
1961       1981       Republic of Tunisia           Fourth Education                       26.00               22.10
1969       1981       Republic of Tunisia           Sall-Scale tndustry Deelopnt           30.00               24.38
1997       1981       Reblic of Tunista             Northwst Rural Deelopmt               24.00               17.36
2003       1981       Soc1ite Tunisemnne de
'Electriciti et du Caz        Third Powr                             37.50               17.86
200s       1981       Republic.ef Tunisia           Health and Population                  12.So                10.71
2012       1981       Republic of Tunista           Texttle RehabIlitation                 18.10                0.26
20SZ       1981       Republic of Tunisia           Crain Distribution and Storage         42.00               26.40
2108       1982       Republic of Tunisia           Fifth Highway (Rural Roadsl            3S.50               22.04
2113       1982       W1ET                          Electrical and Nechanica' Industries  30.50                 14.S7
2134       1982       SOUE                          Sixth Water Supply                     20.50                13.43
2157       1982       Republic of Tunisia           Irrigation Development                 22.10               2O.S6
2197       1932       Republic of Tunisia           Technical Assistance                    4.50                3.73
2223       1983       Republic of Tunisia           Urban Development III                  2S.O0               24.05
2230       1983       Republic of Tunisia           Education V                            27.00               26.53
2224       1983       Republic ef Tunisia           Central Tunisia Irrigation             16.50                13.S4
2S2        1983       RepublIc of Tunisia           Urban Sewrage IIt                      34.00               32.97
2259       1983       Republic of Tunisia           Srax Flood Protection                  Z5.00               24.49
2301       1983       S1FWIECA                      Industry (IV) Foundry                  16.80                15.96
2346       1984       Republic of Tunisia           tMining Technical Assistance           13.40               13.30
2368       1984       Republic of Tunisia           Seventh Water supply                   50.00               49.88
2429 at    1984       Republic of Tunisia           Second Urban Transport                 33.00               33.00
245S A/    1984       Sociitd Tunisennae e
l'Electricitd at du GaZ       Fourth Pesr                            38.70               38.70
2s02 a/    1985       Republic of Tunisia           Hortn West Agricultural Productin' 1S.00                   1S.00
TOTAL                                                             1.337.00     75.2     532.70
Of which has been repaid                                            l90I03    ..t1
Total now outstanding                                             1.1*6.97     66.1
Amount Sold                           14.33
of which has been repaid            14 33
Total now held by Bank and IDA It                              13l2          GL6:
Total Undisbursed                                                  632.70      -       632.70
Al  Hot yet effective
f    Prior to exchange rate adjustment
*   On April 2S. 198S a SS0.0 milltn loan for an Export Industries Project has been approved.
* Signed an April zs.1985.
06745/34



30
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
STATEYENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISrA (as of March 11. 1903)
Amount of USS Million
YUr                AIi.gt.nr                    Tvoe of Business    Lo-n       Euity         Total
1962      NPK Engrais                           Fertilizers            2.0         1.5         3.S
1966      Societe Nat. d'Investtssemnt          Dev. Finance Co.                  0.6          0.6
(naw MET)
1969      COFIT (Tourism)                       Dev. Finance Co.       8.0        2.2         10.2
1970      Societe Nat. d'Znvestissement         Dev. Finance Co.                  0.6          0.6
(now MET)
1973      Societe Touristique                   Tourism                1.6        0.3          1.9
et Hoteliere RYM SA
1975      Societh d'Etudes et                   Tourism               ZS         0.5          3.1
Sousse-hord
1974      Industries Chimiques                  Chemnicals                        0.6          0.6
1978      BOET                                  Dev. Finance Co.                   1.2         1.2
1984      Societe Tunisienne de Leasing         Leasing Co.                      OS
1984      Societe M1inire de Spath              Mining Co.           _-A
Fluor at de Barytine
(Fluobar)
Total Gross Commitments                                    14.1        a.s         22.6
Less Cancellations                                         12          LA         I.16
Terminations. Repayments
and Sales
Total Comnitments now                                                   A_Z
held by IFC
Total Undisbursed                                           Q.Q        IL           LJi
0674S/3S



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the country                       14 months (April 1983
to prepare the project:                         to May 1984)
(b)   Agency that prepared the project:               Ministry of Agriculture,
with assistance from
consultants
(c)   Project first identified by Bank:               September 1982
Cd)   Bank appraisal mission:                         September 1984
-e)  Negotiations completed:                          May 3, 1985
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:                  October 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness:
(i) Recruitment of the Project Director (para. 46).
(ii) Establishment of the Coordination and Monitoring Committee (para. 47).
(iii) Taking of necessary measures to promote the adoption of a binomial
water rate structure (para. 52).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b)   Other conditions:
(i) All ONVs would establish their opening financial statements (as of
December 31, 1985) before April 30, 1986 on the basis of new
accounting principles, and a new MIS would be set up by December 31,
1986 in OMVVM and the OMVs of Kairouan and Gafsa-Jerid, and by June
30, 1987 in all other OMVs; as a result of this process, annual
operating allocations from the Government to the OMVs would be
separated by activity and non-transferable, and funding for
maintenance would be clearly identified, in amounts satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 48).
(ii) Medium-term development plans for all ONVs, and program-contracts for
OMVVM and the OMVs of Kairouan and Gafsa-Jerid, would be submitted
for Bank review by September 30, 1986 and finalized by March 31, 1987
(para. 49).
(iii) New decentralized operating procedures for the AICs would be
established by December 31, 1985 and new WUAs would be created by
December 31, 1987 (para. 50).
(iv) OMVs would achieve full costing of their commercial services by
December 31, 1988 and full O&M cost recovery (except in the center
part of the country) by January 1, 1995, and water charges for all
OMVs would be increased by a minimum of 9 percent p.a. in real terms
(paras. 51 and 52).



TUNISIA
M4 e d  i    ae  r r a  n e  o n                  _J,  LOCATION OFIRRIGATION PERIMETERS
S     -,', a            OCAU/SAZI01NDS APER/METRES
]A  *s                       /      .      \W- C-'O t,,*.
ffas.'.'wz ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ fleU
_f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gl of r s 
o   "eO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UI
~. -     Pa.. Ro-,'a d 
700   J-- '  B
,:. ~     Fgas I       E     0E i  tI     -) 
4 @ A.'paflso                GAce  ME0vfNWE  5.010         eo .Ee _             /
Cap 00al.                  MH   .      0                                 .
200sAi                                                          16Ba  otl 5.
_A'                                                                                                       3A-- W~al Peen | \ s < 
Vi       t                                                                    .. /   N GEE;'5;.'
A reor_zi 1
,  .d de, Cmeem ICA  ONOERIEERS                                                     .      
d-ofh 4t'ttJV 15Ze                                           M H O5  
+~~~~~Arh AfoyS               T4SMD           500KIEE 
As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rf15w GAF  IEI1   A.1                      Tr A^ 0 
At       Rw   _OATO tEOFES  El,SOD MCA__e t,owi.)                      
c~~~~~LI             --W                       ZRWeo BA_t   DV 51MW     R OL110O -vGE RI JIB 1 _
Pam ~   ~          ~          ~         ~          _                     ,r--Es IOSV  peI8 -8
_       A rli                         GAE  rEEW      3                                          NGR010O~  
.~~~~~~~~~~ACy                                      GA.  JED..1



