Docamt of
The World Bank
FOR 1t omCL VSE ONLY
MICR FICH   copy                                          RPt No. 10347
Report No. 1034 7-ZXIPf Type: (?CR)
WECKERLE, / X31708 / T9 102/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
FEBRUARY 21, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document bgs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnmaue of
tbeir officisl duties. Its contents May not othersise be distiased *ithout World Bank authoriz2tion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALLNTS
Currency Unit   -   Zimbabwe Dollar (Z$)
Z$1.00          a   US$1.01   (June  1983)
Z$1.00          a   US$0.41   (June  1990)
Z$1. 00-   100 cents
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (M)           -         3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      -         0.6214 miles tmi)
1 metric ton (ton)    -         1.023 short tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
NRZ     -    National Railways of Zimbabwe
GOZ     *    Government of Zimbabwe
UDI     -    Unilateral Declaration of Independence
R3Z     *    Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe
HFEPD   -    Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MOTC    -    Ministry of Trade and Commerce
MOT     -    Ministry of Transport
RSA     .    Republic of South Africa
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingto.a. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ollice of Diecto -Cetal
Operaton Evakiaton
February 21, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE LXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe: Railway Development Project
(Loan 2342-ZIM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion on Zimbabwe: Railway Development Project (Loan 2342-ZIM)" prepared by
the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COPMPLION 
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LAN 2342-ZIM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PP1FACE  .....  ....  ................................. .
EVALUATION  SLIMHARY    .  .  .  .......................  .    iii
PART Is PROJECT REVIEWFROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . .9  . . . . . . . . ..    1
Project Bdentitr   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   *..  1
Project Background                                                      1
Project Objectives and'Description  ...3. ....            ........    3
Project Design and Organization .      n.. .  .  .  .....    ..................    3
Project Impl emntation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Project Sustainability  ........... ....... ....    9
Bank Performance  . . . . . . .  *.                   . . . . . . .    9
Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .   10
Project Relationship  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Consulting Services ......   . . . . . . . . . . .                   .
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . ... .
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM NATIONAL
RAILWAYS OF ZIMBABWE'S PERSPECTIVE       . .  . .. .   . .   12
Project Ideutity  . . . . .      ... ........  ...        .. . .  .   12
Project Objectives  . . .      ... ........  . . . . . . . .  .   12
Project Description .        ..... .........  ... . . . . .  .   13
Project Duration  .. . . . ....  .  .  . .   13
Isplementation Problems .a. b.m. .  .  .   # .  .  .  .  .  .  . s  .   ........   13
Project Results . . . . ...  .  .  .  .  . .   14
Lessons Learned.      .  .........    . . . . . . . . . . .      ...    .  15
Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower    .  .  .  .   . .   16
Conclusion  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .    .   .   . . .    .  16
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . .. . .24
Related Bank Loans  ..  . ...  .  .    ........ . . . .      ....   25
Project Timetable.                                   ... .   26
Loan Disbursement ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . . . . . .  .  .  .   .   27
Project Implementation  ....  .    . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . .  .   .   28
Project Costs .  . . . . . . . . . . .   .. . .29
Project Financing . . . . . . . . .        ..   ....  . .   .    30
Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                            31
Project Results.. .  .32
Studies ....  .  .  .    .  ......  .  .  .  .  . . . .   . . . . . . . .   33
Sto3us of Covenants . ofCovenan...........   .... .         t.s......    34
Staff Inputs      .  . . . . .         . . . .. . . .                 36
Mission Data  ....  .     .  .  .    . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPERT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PREFACE,
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Railway Develop-
ment Project in Zimbabwe, for which Loan 2342-ZIM in the amount of US$40.0
million was approved on August 2, 1983. The loan was payable in 20 years,
including f {e years of grace vith variable interest rate. The loan was
closed on June 30, 1990, three and a half years behind schedule. The last
disbursement was made on November 5, 1'0. A total of US$22.6 million of the
loan was disbursed; the remaining bal       of US$17.4 million was cancelled in
May 1991.
This PCR was prepared jointly by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR is based on the relevant Bank files, includ-
ing the President's Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, corre-
spondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RATLWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective
The objectives of the project were to (a) assist the National
Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ) to sustain its transport capacity and operational
efficiency and prevent further deterioration of its equipment and fixed
installations; and (b) expand and strengthen its staff training program (para
3.01).
Implelentation Experience
overall implementation of the project was delayed by three and a half
years. The closing date of the loan was extended four times to June 30, 1990
from the original date of December 31, 1986. The stagnation in implementation
was due to delays in loan effectiveness and problematic implementation of the
spare parts component. The project was not fully implemented as appraised.
The total amount disbursed from the loan was US$22.6 million, representing
only 56.4 1 of the loan amount of US$40.0 million. The outstanding balance of
US$17.4 million was cancelled in May 1991 (para 5.01).
Results
The project made a positive contribution to the Borrower's short term
objective to sustain transport capacity and operational efficiency of NRZ,
albeit on a much smaller scale - nearly half the loan was cancelled - than
envisaged originally (para 6.01).
Sustainability
In addition, the project made positive longer term contributions: (a) it
created a basis for the improvement of transport capacity and operational
efficiency of NRZ through building the institutional capability to formulate
and implement maintenance plane; and (b) it provided a conceptual framework
for the follow-on project. The Second Railways Project (Loan 3273-ZIM),
currently under implementation, is assisting the organizational. financial and
asset restructuring of NRZ. It would enable NRZ to increase its existing
capacity, cater efficiently to the prospective demand for rail transport and
become financially self-sustaining (para 7.01).



- iv -
Mhaor Findings and Lessons Learned
Major findings and lessons learned from this project are as follows
(par. 8.02)s
(a)   the Bank should analyze and identify the causes of problems of a
borrower in-depth so that a project can be appropriately designed
to solve the underlying problems of the borrower;
(b)   the project structure should reflect the environment in which
implementing agencies are operating and should avoid unrealistic
covenants which could lead to possible stagnation in project
implementation;
(c)   the basic assumptions on which the design of the project hinges
should be thoroughly assessed so that the possible deficiencies in
the project design can be minimized;
(d)   clear performance targets should be provided to the Borrower and
implementing agencies to furnish them with incentives to take
measures for efficient implementation of the project;
(o)   it can be constructive to take concrete and active measures such
as the diesel locomotive maintenance action plans during
supervision missions in order to resolve implementation problems;
(f)   it would be helpful to give an inexperienced borrower sufficient
guidance regarding the procurement procedure so that procurement
problems can be minimized;
(g)   the whole project cycle should be assigned to one division in
order to ensure the integrity of project design and
implementation;
(h)   it is important to assess the institutional capability of the
Borrower and the implementing agencies prior to appraisal so that
measures to enhance such aspect can be incorporated into the
project design; and
(i)   the Bank should ensure during appraisal that mechanisms to ensure
good policy coordination among the relevant authorities are in
place, especially in the case of a new bor-.crjer, so that the
project can be smoothly implemented.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR¶)
ZlMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                         s Railway Development Project
Loan Number                  X 2342-ZIM
RVP Unit                     a Africa
Southern Africa Department,
Infrastructure Operations Division
Couantry                     s Zimbabwe
Sector                       i Transport
Sub-sector                   s Railways
2. Pro1ect Background
2.01     Zimbabwe is a landlocked country with an area of about 390,000 square
kilometers (k2) and a population of about 9.3 million.  It has a relatively
well-developed transport infrastructure comprising (i) a road network of
85,783 km of which 12,738 km is paved, 43,778 km is grav4el and 29,267 km is
earth; (ii) a railway system with 2,746 km of track, of which 335 km is
electrified; and (iii) eight airports, three of which serve international
traffic. There is a well-developed private trucking industry serving both the
domestic and the southern Africa regional markets and a national airline with
extensive domestic and regional connections and limited connections to Europe
and Australia.
2.02     Zimbabwe's transportation system basically evolved to (i) serve the
country's major mining, industrial and commercial farming centers that were
also the centers of white settlement; and (ii) provide transit access to
seaports for the input requirements and the output of its mining industry, as
well as those of Zambia, Zaire and Botswana. The railways, with a fleet of
291 diesel, 94 steam and 30 electric locomotives, about 12,000 wagons and 360
passenger coaches, is the predominant mode of transport. As a landlocked
country, Zimbabwe relies on a number of railway corridors via Mozambique and
the Republic of South Africa (RSA) for access to sea ports for its
international trade which consists of, in tonnage terms, mainly the export of
bulk minerals, metals and agricultural commodities. Domestically, the



- 2 -
movement of agricultural commodities and minerals, for average hauls for which
the railways enjoy a competitive cost advantage, accounts for the bulk of
trausport demand. Overall, tne railway system has historically accounted for
over 90 percent, in tonnage terms, of transport movements in the country. The
railway system is administered by the National Railways of Zimbabwe (NRZ), a
statutory body governed by the National Railway of Zimbabwe Act of 1973.
NW.,with a workforce of about 17,000 is tLe largest -arastatal organization
in Zimbabwe.
2.03     Zimbabwe's transport infrastructure emerged from the civil war
preceding independence in April 1980 virtually intact. However, the
maintenance and replacement requirements of the system had been increasingly
deferred during the decade before independence as resources were progressively
diverted away from the economy in pursuit of the war. As a result, the
transport system suffered serious deterioration with severe declines in
equipment availability in the railways and, to a lesser extent, in the roads
subsector. Compounding these problems was a massive exodus of skilled white
staff from the railways with the onset of a majority-rule African government
at the end of the war.
2.04     One of the immediate and key objectives of the new Government of
Zimbabwe (GOZ) at independence was the rehabilitation and sustenance of the
war-hemorrhaged transport sector, in particular the railway system. The
identified critical needs were: (a) coping with the rapid diminution of
skilled transport sector personnel; (b) rehabilitating and maintaining the
facilities damaged and neglected during the war for independence; (c)
extending the transport infrastructure and services into the rural areas
(Communal Lands) where the majority of the indigenous Zimbabweans reside; (d)
improving transport needs arising from its landlocked status; and (f)
promoting more efficient energy use in the sector.
2.05     The Bank's assistance strategy supported the Government't policy
objectives in the transport sector as evidenced by the US$ 42 million loan
approved in May 1981 (The Transport Rehabilitation Imports Program (TRIP),
Loan 1994-ZIM, PCR Number 8068). Loan 1994-ZIM was the Bank's first
involvement in the transport sector of Zimbabwe and its second lending
operation in the post-independence period. Prior to Zimbabwe's independence,
the Bank's only involvement in the country's transport sector had been through
a loan in 1958 to the then Rhodesia Railways which was jointly owned by the
governments of Northern Rhodesia (later Zambia) and Southern Rhodesia (later
Zimbabwe) and administered under a unitary system.
2.06     The Railway Development Project (Loan 2342-ZIM) was a follow-on
operation to Loan 1994-ZIM.



-3-
3. Prolect Objectives and Description
3.01     The objectives of Loan 2342-ZIM were to (a) assist NRZ to sustain its
transport capacity and operational efficiency in order to prevent further
deterioration of its equipment and fixed installations; and (b) exqand and
strengthen its training program.
3.02     The project comprised the following componentst
(a)   technical assistance to continue the contracts of 400 essential
expatriate artisans hired under the preceding Loan 1994-ZIM and to
fill additional vacancies of 200 artisans, plus some specialized
higher level expatriate staff over the 1983-1985 period;
(b)   training program for NRZ staff through provision of specialists
and training equipment, and fellowships for overseas study for key
training staff, engineers and managers;
(c)   acquisition of spare parts and materials for locomotives, and
essential equipment critical to NRZ's efficient operations; and
(d)   preparation of an investment plan for NRZ and carrying out of a
manpower study for NRZ and its periodic review.
4.  Project Design and organization
4.01     Conceptual Foundations  The preceding Loan 1994-ZIM included funds
for technical assistance, mainly to assist NRZ in the rehabilitation of
locomotives. However, soon after loan effectiveness, it became clear that the
hemorrhage of trained staff, mainly artisans, would continue and that the
number of vacancies among the artisans critical to the railways' successful
operation was increasing. The NRZ manpower and training study, which was
completed by consultants in October 1982 and reviewed by Bank staff showed
that NRZ, in the short term, would need a sizeable input of foreign assistance
to meet skilled labor shortages, then constituting about 40 percent of the
total number of skilled staff critical to the railway operation. In the
longer term, however, the existing training capacity required substantial
expansion to meet the anticipated manpower demand, particularly for workshop
personnel but also for staff in other categories such as engineers and
computer programmers. According to the study, the training capacity should be
increased by about 50 percent in order to reduced by 1987, the dependence on
external technical assistance and to meet the total manpower demand by 1991-
1992.
4.02     The conceptual foundation of the Railway Development Project was
therefore clearly laid out. The project was aimed at responding to the
Borrower's urgent needs to sustain the transport capacity of NRZ and its
operational efficiency, which was being threatened by the accelerating
departure of white artisans and shortage of spare parts. Given its key role
in the distribution of economic inputs and outputs, sustaining NRZ's



- 4 -
operations was clearly critical for the Zimbabwean economy as well as the
economies of the neighboring countries relying on the NRZ system.
4.03     Scope:  The scope of the project covered three essential needs of NRZ
at the time of appraisal.  The urgent manpower requirements of NRZ rculting
from the accelerating departure of white artisans, was to be assisted through
continuation of technical assistance which had been provided by the preceding
Loan 1994-ZIM. The training program was to reduce the dependence on
expatriste artisans and to meet NRZ's total manpower requirement by 1992.
Foreign exchange for the procurement of spare parts for locomotives and other
essential equipment was to be provided in 0- spare parts component. Ori-
ginally the spare parts component had not ' - taken into consideration until
O02 during the appraisal mission proposed 'tc procurement of spare parts be
included in the project. Questioning the appropriateness of financing
recurrent costs of a commercial entity, the Bank's Loan Committee had directed
that this portion be dropped from the project. However, it was eventually
reinstated on the rationale that the spare parts component, together with the
technical assistance, was a complementary component of the project to sustain
the efficiency of the operation and capacity of NRZ. As a condition of the
reinstatement, specific covenants, which are detailed in the following
paragraph, were incorporated in the project agreement.
4.04 Structure: The technical assistance and training components of the
project vere. straightforward in structure requiring only that NRZ identified
its requirements and contracted for the provision of this within the Bank
procurement guidelines. The structure of the spare parts component was, on
the other hand, relatively complex and was governed by two key covenants: (a)
an annual maintenance plan was to be formulated and carried out by NRZ, after
its review by the Bank, in order to ensure that the provision of spare parts
was effective in maintaining NRZ's locomotive fleet; and (b) a special account
for the procurement of spare parts was to be established at the Reserve Bank
of Zimbabwe (RBZ) with an initial deposit of US$1 million to be drawn down
pari passu with the withdrawal from the Bank loan. With this structure,
successful implementation of the spare parts component came to hinge on (i)
the formsulation of an appropriate maintenance plan by NRZ; (ii) foreign
exchange availability to NRZ; and (iii) the establishment and the operation of
the special account. In retrospect, this project structure subsumed
significant institutional weaknesses in the Government and NRZ, and did not
operate effectively. First, NRZ did not have the capacity to develop an
effective mAintenance plan. There were clear signals at appraisal that this
capacity o' -.RZ had diminished with the loss of a large number of engineers
and foremen. A proper maintenance plan was not produced until 1989, and then
only after considerable pressure from the Bank and the provision of technical
assistance. Second, coordination was weak among the key players of the
project regarding the allocation of foreign exchange to NRZ. The Ministry of
Trade and Commerce (MOTC) was responsible for allocating foreign exchange to
commercial enterprises but it was not a party to the special account
arrangement. It employed criteria for allocation of foreign exchange that had
no relation to what was required to ensure the effective operating performance
of NRZ. The Ministry of Finance, Economic PlaL-ing and Development (MFEPD)
and the Bank played no further active role in coordination once the system was
established until a crisis of foreign exchange shortage forced fundamental
review of the coordination system. Third, the operation of the special
account was unclear from the start with initial confusion about the permis-



-5-
sibility of such account under existing foreign exchange regulations (para
5.02) followed by uncertainties on the rules for replenishment and reporting
(para 5.03).
4.05     Scales  The scale of the project was determined principally by the
projected level of traffic, the anticipated rate of departure of white staff
and their replacement by trained Africans. These factors underpinned the
estimated requirement for the largest single component of the project-
technical assistance-which accounted for 50Z of the Bank Loan. In retrospect,
initial inadequate assessment of these factors caused some redundancies in
project scale. The projected level of activity which formed the basis for the
consultant's assessments proved over-optimistic; the rate of departure slowed
down after 19841 and progress in training replacements was faster than
anticipated. As a result, the requirement for technical assistance was much
less than anticipatedt only about 50Z of the originally estimated artisans
were hired during PY 1985 and FY 1986. For the feliowahip program, only some
100 man-months were utilized through FY 1990, compared to the estimated 150
man-months at appraisal.
4.06    Preparation:  The preparation of the project was inadequate.  NRZ was
in a state of transition in the early 1980s. Effective management of this
transition would be the determining factor as to how well the project
objectives and sustainability were achieved. The appraisal, nevertheless, did
not fully appreciate some of the key potential areas of difficulty in this
transition. First, the President's Report observed that NRZ was an efficient
organization. However, since 1973, it had depended on progressively heavier
subsidies which the Government had a statutory obligation to provide. The
Report ascribed the need for the subsidies to sub-economic tariffs, and it did
not review the cost structure of the railways and the implication of such an
open-ended subsidy system for cost effective performance. Second, the
appraisal implicitly assumed that adequate formal systems for management were
in place and that the major issue was just substituting personnel. In fact,
As it turned out, NRZ had, for example, no formalized maintenance planning, no
clear capital budgeting, and no adequate .nventory control system.  Third, as
the country's major parastatal and transport provider, the management of NRZ
was intricately tied up with the Government's policies on employment, the
allocr4tion of foreign exchange and the targeting of subsidies. It was
unlikely that the new Government would remain aloof from the management of
NRZ, in view of the latter's visibility in political terms. The appraisal did
not consider the implication of the GOZ's intervention in the management of
NRZ. For the most of the 1980s, GOZ played a larger role in shuffling
managers of NRZ to create a body of managers more representati-'e of the
country's population and, in the process, undermined both management morale
and autonomy. These three issues seriously hampered project performance and
sustainability.
4.07    The lack of an adequate review of the potential problems of the
transition in the management and control of NRZ appears to be mainly the
consequence of the treatment of the operation as, in effect, a program loan.
This dictated a quick response to the Borrower's needs and precluded thorough
analysis of fundamental changes in the operations, management and regulation
of the railways. This treatment could be attributable to the fact that
appraisal and preparation of the project was led by the Education and Manpower
Development Division and that the Transportation Division II, which had



-6
expertise in railways operations, was only in charge of technical inputs to
the preparation and supervisory part. One important consequence of the depth
of the preparation was the absence of a cost-benefit analysis of the project,
which led to lack of performance target relevant to operational efficiency of
NRZ, and introduction of inappropriate criteria such 2S working ratio which
could not capture the full extent of the impact of the project.
5. Project Implementation
5.01    Overall implementation of the project was delayed three and a half
years. The closing date of the loAn was extended four times to June 30, 1990
from the original date of December 31, 1986. The stagnation of the project is
due to the delay in loan effectiveness (para 5.02) and problematic
implementation of the spare parts component (par& 5.03). Also, the project
was not fully implemented as appraised. The total amount disbursed from the
loan proceeds was US$22.6 million, representing only 56.4 Z of a loan amount
of US$40.0 million. The outstanding balance of US$17.4 million was cancelled
in May 1991.
5.02    Loan Effectiveness:  The loan became effective on March 29, 1984, six
months later than initially planned. The special condition for loan
effectiveness was for NRZ to open a special account of US$1 million at RBZ and
to replenish this special account upon approval of each list of spare parts
and materials to ensure that sufficient funds were available to finance the
spare parts proposed to be procured under such list. After MPEPD had sent NRZ
an instruction to open the special account in November 1983, MFEPD learned in
January 1984 that NRZ was not able to open the US$ denominated account at RBZ
due to the existing foreign exchange regulations. After the Bank turned down
an MFEPD proposal to open the account externally, an agreement was reached in
February 1984 that NRZ would open a Zimbabwean Dollar denominated account
equivalent to US$l million at RBZ and would ensure that The Ministry of Trade
and Conmerce (MOTC) and RBZ supply NRZ with sufficient foreign exchange
equivalent to the NRZ's deposit into the account to purchase spare parts.
5.03.   Spare Parts Component:  Jnplementation of the spare parts component
was beset by a number of problems. First, the Government was reluctant to
utilize this spare parts program in the early stages until the proceeds from
the preceding Loan 1994-ZIM, which had a large spare parts component, were
fully disbursed. Second, the ability of NRZ to use the funds provided for
under this component was drastically reduced during FY 1987 and FY 1988.
Zimbabwe faced deteriorating foreign exchange availability during this period
and allocations of foreign currency to NRZ were sharply curtailed. This
reduced IRZ's capacity to use the special account for the procurement of spare
parts (pa.: 4.04) to match planned withdrawals from the loan. On a strict
interpretation of the covenant, the Bank could not disburse against the
component until sufficient counterpart funds in foreign currency were made
available to NRZ. To resolve this problem, the Bank agreed with NRZ that the
requirenent for parri passu contributions to the financing of spare parts
would be interpreted as meaning that NRZ's cumulative contributions to the
financing of spare parts over the duration of the project would equal the
value of spare parts financed out of the loan. Third, as a result of the loss
of experienced managers, NRZ did not have the capacity to formulate the
maintenance plans which were supposed to be the basis for the procurement of



spare parts. As a result, it was dlfflcult for lt to justify, in many
Instances, the need for the procurement of items. Finally, NRZ was not
familLar wLth the Bank's procurement procedures. This lack of knowledge
combined with its inability to justLfy speciflc proposals for procurement led
to considerable delays during implementation.
5.04    The purchase of spare parts did not contribute to the improvement of
the transport capacity and operatlonal efficiency of NRZ until action plans
for diesel locomotlve rehabilitation were implemented in 1990, as evidenced in
the operational statistics of NRZ shown in Annex II. The formulation of these
action plans was agreed with NRZ in 1988 as a condition for the release of
loan funds for the procurement of spare parts. This condltion was part of the
agreement for the resolution of the problems with the special account (para
5.03). The lack of effectiveness of the spare parts component in contributing
to the operational objectives of the project was due mainly to the following
reasons. NRZ had a fleet of diesel locomotives comprising of 11 classes
defined by different makes or combinations of engines and electrical systems
and haulage capacity. The locomotives were of different vintages and varying
reliabillty. Prior to the formulation of the maintenance action plans,
maintenance scheduling was determined with little reference to the relative
productivity record of the fleet and was undertaken on an adhoc basis. The
assessment of spare parts requirements was based to a large extent on historic
records of usage which increasingly bore little relationship to the
requirements of the fleet. There was little co-ordination between the
mechanical engineering department - the users - and the supplies department.
Finally, no formal and comprehensive assessment of skilled labor requirements
to match scheduled workloads were done. These arrangements often resulted in
(i) locomotives with low reliability and power and requiring complex work
being assigned higher priority in the use of maintenance resources over more
reliable and productive locomotives ; (ii) spare parts for which there was no
requirement being ordered, orders made being insufficient to meet actual
requirements and orders being placed too late to match the timing of work to
be done; and (iLL) substantial numbers of expatriate artisans being under-
utilized part of the time whilst being insufficient or with the wrong skills-
mLx when required. The action plans, formulated with the help of technical
assistance, addressed these deficiencies and led to the re-establishment of
formal maintenance planning procedures in NRZ. As part of the program to
strengthen maintenance management, the Bank approved the reallocation of funds
to replace NRZ's obsolete computer system to allow implementation of a
revamped inventory management system. Although the project was extended by
three and a half years, only US$9.6 million, including the provision of a
computer system, was disbursed out of the revised allocation of US$15.6
million. However, this final total disbursement against the spare parts
component reflects the fact that, following the formulation of the maintenance
plan, the Government decided to allocate NRZ sufficient foreign currency to
cover most of the assessed cost of spare parts to implement the plan.
5.05    Technical Assistance:  The estimated and actual implementation of
technical assistance are shown in Table 4 of Part III and are detailed in
Annex I. During the period FY 1985-86, 641 artisans were hired, compared with
1,189 artisans estimated at appraisal. During a Bank supervision mission in
September 1985, it became clear that NRZ's manpower requirements was less than
assessed at appraisal due to the overestimated staff complements in the
initial manpower study (para 4.05). Also, the rate of departure of white



artisan staff started declining after 1984 (para 4.05). Consequently, a
recruitmsnt freeze on expatriate artisans was imposed. In addition, the
expatriate artieans hlred under the project weore not efficiently utilized due
to the lack of maintenance plans and inadequate inventories of spare parts
(para 5.04).
5.06    Training program and fellowship:  The training facility and equipment
included in the project were implemented as scheduled; however, only about ten
percent of the fellowship program was utilized. Reflecting the ezisting
culture of the railways, NRZ management did not attach much importance to
formal management training and was reluctant to use its own funds   The
estimated and actual utilization of resources available for this component are
presented in Table 4 of Part III; details are shown in Annex I.
5.07    Proiect Risk:  The main project risk identified at appraisal was the
likelihood of more rapid departure of white artisan staff than forecast.
This risk turned out not to have materialized as the rate of departure of
white artisans started declining after 1984. More significant risks, which
were not identified, were lack of appropriate maintenance planning, absence of
caeercial incentives for self-sustaining operation, demoralized management.
and inadequate policy coordination among related parties, on which the
implementation of the spare parts component hinged (para 4.04).
6. Project Results
6.01     Project Oblectives: Although the President's Report does not provide
a cost-benefit analysis of the project and no performance targets were agreed,
it would be fair to state that the project, in general, made a positive short
and longer term contribution to the Borrower's needs to sustain the transport
capacity and operational efficiency of NRZ. First, the technical assistance
and training program probably avoided a sharp deterioration of NRZ's operation
by fulfilling urgent manpower requirements of NRZ, though on a smaller scale
than designed in the project. Second, although the spare parts component did
not contribute to improving NRZ's operations until FY 1990, it did help NRZ,
albeit on a much smaller scale, to begin to build the institutional capability
to carry out better maintenance. Third, the project brought out in sharp
relief the need for better policy coordination among relevant government
authorities on the issue of foreign exchange allocation to NRZ. Finally, the
project created an awareness for a much more comprehensive approach to tackle
the problems of NRZ, which was picked up as the framework for the follow-on
project, the Second Railways Project (Loan 3273-ZIM), which is currently under
implementation.
6.02    Operational Performances  Performance targets were not agreed between
the Bank and NRZ in the project. However, the operational statistics of NRZ
(Annex II), which were included in the reporting requirements, show that key
indicators of KRZ's performance, such as diesel locomotive availability and
locomotive productivity, started improving only in FY 1990 after strong
measures were taken during project supervision to remedy key weaknesses in
NRZ's management system.
6.03    Financial Performance:  The sumary of NRZ financial performance is
provided in Annex III. The loan covenants required that the GOZ take measures



- 9 -
to cause NRZ to achieve a working ratio of .ess than 100.  These covenants
were met in FY 1984. However, after FY 1984, the financial position of NRZ
began deteriorating and NRZ was never able to achieve a working ratio under
100 throughout the balance of the implementation period. The reasons for poor
financial performance of NR2 ares (a) lack of incentive for NRZ to improve its
financial position due to the dependence on GOZ's financial supports (b)
tariffs which are controlled by GOZ and are not optimal in relation to the
cost and asset structure of NRZ; (c) high fixed costs; (d) lack of planning in
capital budgeting; and (e) inappropriate debt financing of investments.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01    The project made significant longer term contributions to benefits:
(a) it created a basis for the improvement of transport capacity and
operational efficiency of NRZ through building the institutional capability to
formulate and implement maintenance plans (para 6.01); and (b) it provided a
conceptual framework for the follow-on Second Railways Project (Loan 3273-ZIM)
(para 6.01). The Second Railways Project is aimed at improving the benefits
further by assisting in the organizational, financial and asset restructuring
of NRZ. It would, if properly implemented, enable NRZ to increase its
existing capacity, cater efficiently to the prospective demand for the rail
transport and become financially self-sustaining.
8.  Bank Performance
8.01    Major Strengths and Weaknesses:  The Bank was quick in responding to
the Borrower's request for a second operation to assist NRZ. However, this
responsiveness was followed by weaknesses in project appraisal and
preparation. First, the Bank did not identify the full depth of the problems
of NRZ. The problems lay not only in the shortage of skilled artisans and
spare parts, which were correctly identified at appraisal, but also in NRZ's
inefficient organizational structure, deficient management control and
planning systems, lack of incentives to achieve self-sufficient management,
and the inexperience of a new government which inherited implementing
institutions with little trust in them, as exemplified in the issue of foreign
exchange allocations and interference in NRZ's personnel policies (paras 4.04
and 4.06).   Not recognizing these later factors at appraisal led to an
inappropriate project design and stagnation in implementation. Efforts were
made during supervision missions to correct the deficiencies in project design
but it was not until the last three supervision missions that NRZ, the Bank
and GOZ could, together formulate measures to resolve implementation and
management problems. The measures included (a) helping NRZ to build the
institutional ability to carry out maintenance plans; (b) proposing action
plans for maintenance of diesel locomotives; and (c) facilitating the
recruitment of expatriate senior management and computer specialists. These
measures directly contributed to the improvement of NRZ's operations after FY
1990.
8.02    Lessons Learned:  The lessons learnt in this project have largely been
incorporated in the design of the following Loan 3273-ZIM currently under
implementation. Notable among them are:



- 10 -
(a)   the Bank should analyze and identify the causes of problems of a
borrower in-depth so that a project can be appropriately designed
to solve the underlying problems of the borrower (para 4.06);
(b)   the project structure should reflect the environment in which
implementing agencies are operating and should avoid unrealistic
covenants which could lead to the possible stagruti'n in project
implementation (para 4.04);
(c)   basic assumption  on which the design of the project hinges
should be thoroughly assessed so that the possible deficiencies in
the project design can be minimized (para 4.05);
(d)   clear performance targets should be provided to the Borrower and
implementing agencies to furnish them vith incentives to take
measures for efficient implementation of the project (para 4.07);
(e)   it can be constructive to take concrete and active measures such
as the diesel locomotive maintenance action plans during
supervision missions in order to resolve implementation problems
(para 6.02);
(f)   it would be helpful to give an inexperienced borrower sufficient
guidance regarding the procurement procedure so that procurement
problems can be minimized (para 5.03); and
(g)   the whole project cycle should be assigned to one division in
order to ensure the integrity of project design and implementation
(para 4.07).
9. Borrower's Performance
9.01    Major Strengths and Weaknesses:  It should be noted that NRZ went
through a difficult period during which a large number of artisans left the
organization, senior management was frequently being replaced, the relations
with MOT were antagonistic, and sufficient foreign exchange was not allocated
by MOTC. These factors severely curtailed NRZ's capability to implement the
project. Probably, the most crucial weakness during the project period was
the institutional inability of NRZ to formulate and implement the maintenance
plan to sustain t'e operational capacity and efficiency. Also the
inexperience of NRZ with the Bank's procurement procedures led to delay in
project implementation.
9.02    Lesson Learned:  The key lesson learned is the importance of assessing
the institutional ability of the Borrower and implementing agencies so that
measures to enhance this aspect can be incorporated into the project design.
If the institutional capability of NRZ to formulate a maintenance plan and the
regime for obtaining timely access to foreign exchange had been assessed,
constructive measures could have been incorporated into the project design,
and the bottlenecks in implementing the spare parts component could have been
minimized (para 4.04).



- 11 -
10. ProJect RelationshLi
10.01 Impact of ProJect Relationship on Project Impllmentation: Relations
between the Bank and Zimbabwean authorities have been goodt however, the
relatively new relation between the Bank and GOZ, and the lack of coordination
among relevant Zimbabwean authorities contributed, in part, to the stagnation
in project implementation. The unfamiliarity of NRZ with the Bank's
procurement procedures caused delays in implementation tpara 5.03). The lack
of comunication among RBZ, NRZ, and other ministries, in relation to the
special account, led to considerable delay in loan effectlveness (para 5.02).
Insufficient allocation of foreign exchange by MOTC to NRZ caused stagnation
in lmplementing the spare parts program during PY 1986 and FY 1987 (para
5.03). Antagonistic relation, between HU and NOT cost HU the institutional
integrity to sustain organizational functions. The lesson of these
experiences is that it is important for the Bank to ensure good policy
coordination among the relevant authorities, especially in the case of a new
borrower, so that project implementation can proceed smoothly.
11. Consultina Services
11.01      Consulting services provided under the project were, in general, of
fair quality; however, the initial manpower study conducted by consultants and
which provided the basis for designing the technical assistance, training and
fellowships was, in retrospect, not very reliable. The overestimation of NRZ
manpower requirements in the study led to the inflated scale of this component
in the project (para 4.05).
12. Prodect Documentation and Data
12.01     The President' Report provided a useful framework in analyzing
project design in the absence of a staff appraisal report. Supervision
reports and other relevant documents in Bank file were informative and useful
in reviewing project implementation.



12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM NATIONAL RAILWAYS OF ZIMBABWE'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Name                     :    Railway Development Project
Loan Number                    2342-ZIM
RVP Unit                 :    Africa
Southern Africa Department,
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country                        Zimbabwe
Sector                         Transport
Sub-sector                     Railways
2.    Prolect Obiectives
2.01        The objective of the project was to assist National Railways of
Zimbabwe to sustain its transport capacity and its operational efficiency. It
consisted of the following:
(a) Maintenance of the operational efficiency of National Railways of
Zimbabwe through the provision of technical assistance;
(b) Carrying out a training program for National Railways of Zimbabwe
staff, including the provision of training equipment;
(c) Provision of fellowships for selected staff of National Railways of
Zimbabwe;
(d) Acquisition of equipment, including computer hardware and
peripherals, spare parts and materials for its operations;
(e) Preparation of an investment plan for National Railways of Zimbabwe
including appropriate traffic forecasts and financial projections; and
(f) Carrying out of a manpower study for National Railways of Zimbabwe
and periodic review of such study.



- 13 -
3.    Project Description
3.01        The project comprised the following componentos
(a) Technical assistarce to continue the contracts of 400 essential
expatriate artisans hired under the preceding Loan 1994-ZDM and to fill
additional vacancies of 200 artisans plus some specialized higher level
expatriate staff over the 1983-1985 period;
(b) Training program for National Railways of Zimbabwe staff through
provision of specialists and training equipment, and fellowships for
overseas study for key training staff, engineers and managers;
tc) Acquisition of essential equipment critical to National Railways of
Zimbabwe's efficient operations, including computer hardware and
peripherals, spare parts and materials for locomotives; and
Cd) Preparation of an investment plan for National Railways of Zimbabwe
and carrying out of a manpower study for National Railways of Zimbabwe
and its periodic review.
4.    Project Duration
4.01        Implementation of the project was to commence on November 29, 1983
and should have been completed by December 31, 1986. However, the Loan did
not become effective until March 29, 1984, due to delays in the opening of a
Special Account at the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe by National Railways of
Zimbabwe. The Closing Date of the Loan was extended four times to June 30,
1990 from the original date of December 31, 1986 (Table 1).
5.    Implementation Problems
5.01        Delay in the opening of the Special Account for spare parts and
materials at the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe by National Railways of Zimbabwe
held back the implementation of the project from November 29, 1983 to March
29, 1984. This was due to existing foreign exchange regulations which forbade
companies from opening foreign currency accounts both locally and externally.
The resolution of the problem was by way of National Railways of Zimbabwe
opening the Special Account in local currency and the Ministry of Trade and
Commerce and the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe supplying National Railways of
Zimbabwe with sufficient foreign exchange equivalent to purchase spare parts.
5.02        Lack of performance targets to measure the effectiveness of the
loan on the performance of National Railways of Zimbabwe. No explicit
conclusions can therefore be drawn on the effectiveness of the project.
5.03        Lack of project appraisal prior to the Loan Agreement and the
subsequent project implementation in order to assess the viability of the



- 14 -
project. In addition to assessing the viability of the project, the appraisal
would have provided an insight into the project prior to implementation.
5.04        Lack of experience on World Bank procedures on the part of
National Railways of Zimbabwe and the Government of Zimbabwe which resulted in
delays in the implementation of the project.
5.05        Laws and regulations governing the relationship between Government
and National Railways of Zimbabwe were such that National Railways of Zimbabwe
could not perform independent of the government, in particular the Ministry of
Transport. Typically, rates and tariff controls and the subsequent blanket
subsidy by Government which acted as disincentives for National Railways of
Zimbabwe management from implementing effective operation and financial
policies.
5.06        Lack of cost-benefit-analysis and performance targets on the part
of National Railways of Zimbabwe made it impossible to properly prepare,
screen and present projects requiring funding. This has resulted in the
benefits accruing to this particular project not being articulate.
6.    Project Results
6.01        The fact is that there were no performance targets set for the
project therefore there is not concrete basis on which to measure its
effectiveness. In addition, project 1994-ZIM was still being implemented for
the greater portion of the duration when the above project was undertaken and
furthermore both projects were to fulfil more or less the same objectives. As
such distinct achievements of project Loan 2342-ZIM can hardly be drawn up.
The purchase of spare parts did not contribute to the improvement of transport
capacity and operational efficiency of National Railways of Zimbabwe until
1990 because of the action plans of diesel locomotive rehabilitation
requirement.
6.02        In general the project to some extent fulfilled the objectives
though it is hard to quantify such achievements. Most outstanding of the
achievements include following:
(a) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: It ensured adequate artisan staff to maintain
the National Railways of Zimbabwe locomotive fleet in working order at a
time of massive resignations of National Railways of Zimbabwe artisans
between 1983 and 1986. It also provided a stop-gap measure for National
Railways of Zimbabwe to train its own artisan staff. The estimated and
actual implementation of technical assistance are shown in
Annexure 1(A).
(b) TRAINING PROGRAM AND FELLOWSHIP: The training facility and
equipment were completed on schedule and have greatly facilitated the
training of National Railways of Zimbabwe staff. As a result of an over
estimate in staff requirements, the training facility capacity was well
above National Railways of Zimbabwe's needs. With regard to management
training, though not much training of management was undertaken, the
project assisted National Railways of Zimbabwe to identify the need for
management training which is now being actively pursued in project II.



- 15 -
The estimated and actual utilization of resources available for this
component are presented in Annexure l(B).
(c) SPARE PARTS AND COMPUTER EQUIPMENT: Spare parts only became
available in 1990 and their contribution only started being felt in that
year onwards as indicated in Annexure II on Diesel Locomotive
Availability and Annexure III on kilometers achieved between failures.
The most important achievement of the spare parts component is the
realization on the National Railways of Zimbabwe of the need for action
plans for locomotive rehabilitation and maintenance which are now being
actively pursued in project II. The acquisition of the computer and
peripheral equipment to replace the existing antiquated equipment has
provided higher response and extra capacity to meet National Railways of
Zimbabwe information needs. To date, it is under test.
(d) INVESTMENT PLAN COMPONENT: Prior to the implementation of the
project National Railways of Zimbabwe had some kind of investment plan
based on the rule of thumb rather than on financial and economic
evaluation. With the assistance of the RITES Consultancy National
Railways of Zimbabwe has produced 1989-90 Corporate and Investment Plans
and is currently producing 1990-91 plans without any outside assistance.
One major achievement of the project to National Railways of Zimbabwe is
its realization of the potential of its own manpower in drawing up the
plans. The achievements of the project to National Railways of Zimbabwe
are many and diverse such that putting all of them down would be
difficult. The fact that there were no performance targets provided for
the project makes it even harder to come up with all the benefits
derived. The most. important benefit derived from the project is the
lesson learnt with regard to dealing with the World Bank and on how
National Railways of Zimbabwe can improve its efficiency.
7.    Lessons Learned
7.01        The major lessons learnt from the project are as follows:
(a) National Railways of Zimbabwe should clearly state the objectives
and carry out cost-benefit-analysis on projects to be funded by the
World Bank;
(b) Projects to be undertaken should have performance targets against
which performance has to be measured for control and evaluation
purposes;
(c) Maintenance schedules for rolling stock and equipment should be
provided in order to minimize cost of maintenance and maximize manpower
utilization. As a follow on, preventive maintenance for rolling stock
and equipment is a sine qua non if productivity has to be maintained on
National Railways of Zimbabwe;
(d) Inventory control of spare parts and components is as vital as
maintenance of the rolling stock and equipment itself;



- 16 -
(e) Management information systems of National Railways of Zimbabwe
should be upgraded for efficient managements
(L) Management training is vital if National Railways of Zimbabwe is to
improve operational and financial efficiency; and
(g) Strict government control tends to demoralize m'nagement especially
when such control includes the appointment of management staff,
determination of tariffs and deficit financing.
8.    Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower
8.01        The relationship was some what formal due to the fact that both
the Government of Zimbabwe and National Railways of Zimbabwe had very little
experience in World Bank procedures. On the other hand the Bank did not
appear to have studied the environment in which the project was to be
implemented. This resulted in some unrealistic covenants being agreed to
which led to some delays in the implementation of the project. Some examples
include the opening of a special account by National Railways of Zimbabwe to
procure spares and locomotive maintenance action plans. It would appear that
had these issues been addressed prior to the signing of the Agreement, there
may not have been any delays in the implementat:.on of the project.
9.    Conclusion
9.01        Project 2342-ZIM though having a number of setbacks such as late
start and completion, incomplete disbursements and so on, achieved its stated
objectives to some extent. Some of the major achievements include the
establishment of good working relationships between the Bank and National
Railways of Zimbabwe and also between the Zimbabwe Government and the Bank.
It assisted in the establishment of better working relationships between
National Railways of Zimbabwe and various departments. It highlighted the
need for project evaluation and investment planning and also the need for
management training within the National Railways of Zimbabwe. Most
importantly, it made the implementation of project II much easier for both
National Railways of Zimbabwe and the World 'tank.
9.02        In addition to the annexures referred to in the text, other
performance indicators have been proscribed in Annexures IV and V.



- 17 -
ANNEXURE I (A)
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION'
Appraisal               Actual (or
Indicators                              Estimate                PCR Estimate)
- -----   (No. of Staff)----------
Technical Assistance2
Artisans                                1,189                         641
Engineers                                  45                          24
Draughtemen                                66                           0
Technicians                                58                           0
Foremen                                    47                           2
Computer Staff                             22                          20
Accountants                                 4                           4
Training Progra3                         ------------(Man Hours)----------
Training Specialist                        60                          36
Instructors                               480                         480
Fellowship Training                       150                          19
Investment Studies4                          72                          48
Senior Management                          -                          114
Comment:        Detailed  estimates  and  actual  results  of  expatriate  assistance
requirements are shown in Annex 1 (B).
1 No implementation indicator was agreed on spare parts program.
2 Estimates are based on the President's Report.
3 Estimates are based on Schedule 3 of Loan Agreement.
4 Estimates are based on the President's Report.



*mawr Assigswva. K Iffi  A.mISAL LsnAT s AND ll) Cr Jit WLrS
1.  ICWICAL ISSISTAM  / sTlniG  m
FT E13* JUI 30                    FM n              Fti                FTY6              Flab               nil               FnY                 n                 mno
cagE/maE                   E.sTipm    AtAL  isnIATF   tamL  (5nu11   AcTuAL iu      S WATE  AZWL   EST1MAT! ACIVAL   ESHnWAIF  ACtUAL  ESTIMATE  ALIVAL  ItMAlE  ALTUAL
Fi tb                         45      33                 30       oil      5S       1si       70        26       42         62      26         44                70      -
"1.I ftbit                    Is    too          14      6         125      in       330      64         9        0         be      33         47 1*              :.     a6
0*SE liuUIb Sfl               2       so          )      °          UI2    To         S9      16         U3      44         61      n          sl      24        A       la
Eb.dadddm                     -0      54         -4      44         26     38         34      23         14      -           5      _-                 -         - 
Sipua IAgusI @uc dd          .   0  4I a                 Go         31     44         42      D1         20      13        24       -          11      -          4      -
fla1ab.ibr                    29      -          20       2         31      a         39      -          32      -         26       -          i0      -         Is      -
1wur                          20      12 2U               1i        31      9         2B      10         14      -          10      -                             2 -  2  -
C&Tpwabr                       a      -           a      -           9     -          30      -           9      -           7      -                 -           3 
Co*&S 6 "  v 11dr            1t       4         17       4         16      4         17      -          is      -                  -           5      -          2      -
C.aiba Ib                      5      -          la      -          10     -          I                   9      - I                -           7     -           7      -
*1 Sagm"b                     to      -          II      -          I I    -          I I     -           I      -           4      -          4      -           2      -
btdgirsUel Elstar              4       3                  3                 5          6       6          4      -           3      -           2     -           3
.1Xlr                          4      -           2      -           I     -           I      -          -       -          -       -          -      -          _       _
M I Iuvt                     -4                 -4       6          1      5         -       -          -       -    .     -       -          -       _         _ 
hl.Aa                          9       2         10       2         W0      2          9       2          1      -           5      -           4      -          2
Xc.& lrtl_                     4      -           6      -                             I -  7  -          1      -           7      -           6      -          4      -
tPe4.g~                        2      -2  -              -          2      -           3      -           2      -                  -          -       -         _       -
Ouan                          40      -          47      20         n      23         49      14         4       -          2       -          41      -          2      _
lOl1lS                       242    341         401     330        SO     34)         9      293        45      369       .4        36        29       20        163    IU
S of WIUM§SMlIA2E                    149.29             s.E               5.7J               10.1%              37.2%              25.4               14.7J             23. 1
(L) OI131 SIA
FT EIDW JUltE 30                    FM                FYN4              I'                 F66               Fnll               FvIm                nte              nFo
EsnlW     aVAL  UslIWAE  ACIl.  ISTMATE  AcAL   ESTIMATE  ACtuAL  ISIIIAU Tf           UaL  tIANATE  ACTUL   ES11UlATE  AtAL           UIIVAIE  ACuaL
QCwli qIMen                  5       3          4       3         10     -          Is      -          12      -          1i      -          I1      _          4
El.sSvIc.l linn              5       4          3       5          5      2          4       3          6       3          3       2         -        2        -              t
lie11as ,iman.n             -        1          2       4         30      5         12       4         13       4         1I       4          a       4         4       *
Silgnaglmrs                  4       2          5       2          4     -          -       -          -       _          _       _          _       _                  I
femm                                  -          so       a         29      1         29       1         2O      _         22       -           4     -          20      -
kwemunn,                      20      -          1s      -          10     -          3n      -          36      -          22      -          14      -
hd     _                      24      -          27      -           o     -         2V       -          2n      -          21      _                       _    20 
twC bg 5Sdt                   13      10         la      30         II      10         9       5          6       2          *       2          *      2          s       2    '
_ W  2  *         2       2          2       2          I       1         2      _           3      _           I      _           a      _
WDITS                         so      30        me       29        III     21        33       34        326       9                                                       a 
it et xcnAtsnPA                       2.w                 .0               ^.0 .5                               7.t                LAX                1D.7J             &
2. DIFl5
11 53013 JARE 30              FM3               1104              FM6                FT66               FM3               lies               FM6                 939
ESTIOUTE   =AuL   nilSAW    iwaL    tINAIE  SA uL  CSlumarE  ACluaL  ISNAII ACuAL  £ES1mlIE  aAuL   OtIMAtE  AnuAL  LSIItWAi    Vatu
1.cisat  gtu                   I       £         I        I         I      _          _       _          _       _          _       _          _      _          _       _



FM                                                    FYIO FM             11 FM              FII.              nf F o
£Slt1ETA  WAJ,  ESIKAW    MUAL  ESlTE 1AIMbL  ESIIMAIE  AKUAL  ISIlKAl  &MAL   ESJ E II IVAL   sSIVAt  MIL                            We WAn   a,>AL
lg.IlM  S;wd.IIe              -       -           2       1         I      . I        -        I         -                                                         
IIIWCbISt                     20       5        X0        3        2        3         20       2        29       2         2       -          10     -                  -
37A1S                         21       6         23       5        2a       4         20       3        X        2         20       0         tD      a                  a
%or Aci*t  anI                       26IU               25.W              10.                35.cW             10.1W               .                 o.,               0.9 



lRZ OPIBATIONAL STATISTiCS
1.  SYSTE STAFF FWTVE PCWER AND ROLLIIrG STOCX          FY1983     n11984       F11985      FY1986      n11987     FY1988       111989      111990
Route - Km                                               3,394       3,394       3,394       3,394       2,745       2,745       2,745       2,745
Track - Km                                               4,286       4,286       4,286       4,286       4,286       4,304       4,304       4,304
Number of Staff                                         20,112      19,530      19,651      19,444      18,532      17,455      17,195      17,156
Main-Line Diesel Locomotive   -Fleet size                  291         288         284         283         280         280         274          260
-Serviceable               193        202          206        189          179        165          158         158
-Available                 132        141          140        120          106         89          82           83
-Availability(%)         68.41       69.8:        68.02      63.51       59.21        53.9S      51.91        52.5t
Diesel Shunting Locomotives   -Fleet size                   34          34         34           30          28          28          28          28
-Serviceable                27         26          26          26           23         19           16          17
-Available                  19         18          16          15           13          8            8           7
-Availability(%)         70.42       69.22       61.51       57.72       56.51       42.12       50.0S        41.21
Steam Locmotives                -Fleet size                130         111        103          102         101         101         102          103              *
-Serviceable               88          87          82          76           73         80           80          76
-Available                  41         36          32          31           31         33           30          27               °
-Avallability(Z)         46.62       41.41       39.01       40.81       42.51       41.31       37.52        35.52
Electric Locomotives            -Fleet size                -             9         27           30          30          30          30          30
-Serviceable               -            8          24          28           27         29           29          27
-Available                 -            5          13          15           20         22           21          20
-Availability              -         62.5S       54.21       53.12       74.11       75.91       72.41        74.12
Passenger Coaches               -Fleet size                352         353        390          381         371         338         368         360
-Available                260         240         297         258         231         159          198         240
-Availability            73.9S       68.01       76.21       67.72       62.31       47.01       53.81        66.71
Freight Wagons                  -Oil Tanks                 666         659        654          651         685         638         695         692
-Refrigerator             276         275         275         272         262         242          241         240
-Other Specialized        709         762         769         769          771        750          773         769
-General Purpose       11,303      11,034       11,080     10,909       10,876     10,887       10,432      10,101
-Total                 12,954      12,729       12,778     12,501       12,594     12,517      12,141       11,802
-Out of Service           826         789          871        970         979         927         997          755
-Available             12,128      11,940       11,907     11,531       11,615     11,590       11,144      11,047
-Availibility            93.61       93.81        93.21      92.21       92.21       92.62       91.81        93.61
Liner Train Wagons              -Coal                      126         126         126         126         126         123         123          123
-Iron Ore                  94          94           94         94           94         94           94          94        H
-Total                    220         220          220        220          220        217          217         217        N
-Available                 199        207          203        208          206        192          189         194
-Availability            90.51       94.11        92.31      94.51       93.62       88.51       87.11        89.41



LOCOHOTIVE PERFORMANCE
(KILCOETERS BEIWEEN LOCOHOTIVE FAILURES)
1984            1985             1986            1987             1986            1989             1990            1991
Km                       STEAM       3,283,079       3,072,854        3,067,562       3,014,039        3,313,046       3,249,935        2,665,313       2,551,230
DIESEL    15,441,958       14,707,725       14,425,228      12,061,439       10,209,653       8,682,599        9,282,36        9,440,267
ELECTRIC       NIL           1,644,384       2,368,954       2,536,200        2,562,754       2,505,121        2,622,933       2,307,307
No. Of failure.t        STEAM               156             127              135             240             372              430             569              454
DIESEL            571              602              636             919             939            1,025             789              516
ELECTRIC       NIL                  58               32              45              22               43              45               46
Km/Failure:              STEAM          21,045           24,195          22,722           12,558           8,906            7,559           4,768           5,619
DIESEL         27,043           24,431          17,255           13,146          10,872            8,670          11,764           10,295
ELECTRIC       NIL              28,351          74,029           56,360         116,439           58,258          58,267          50,158
a
'-4



of.  TliC                                             I3e1113         fl1984         1139M m9G  niEW? FFnWsa                                     n)6 mI9qS
p  Carried (')00)                                        2,630          2,218          2,471          2,713          3,3010         2,7            3,126         2,W
v.igit b1wu. jibi-t.) ('000c)                            13,01         13,3           33.061         33,619        13,496          13,2           13,215        11,U0
FIwIglt Sr.s. (lbS-li.) ('t-)                              iS             691      7     51             42             407            40)            4t     W }
lot"                                                    1 we          14,12          133.3          14,045         13,S03         13,420         13,40w        14,2U
W t-Ie.4b  (dlIIleo)                                      ,216          6,412          6,232          6,s1n          5,W2           5,5            5,217          ,5900
Cseu-Iwlh (ml Ilen)                                      130           13,2p6          13,029        13,710         12,093         10,103          10,92         ip*
V.  OWATI@e6                                          m              Me.                l          FTI            FT n              9 F11901    113989        F1IV1*
Iran- - b      m)            - P      P                  30             344            1,664          1,748         15,4             ,43 II71                     E
^ IleighI                  12,412        13.963          11,340        11,611         lo0t            9,131          0,323          8,112
- ltat                     14,132        13,43           13,044         13,409        11,901          10,184        30,092         10,2;4
I.mtiw  _ PW  (000)          - S166                      3,101          2,-62          2,401          2,419          2,110          2,614          2,%?          2,11    1
- Dl.e.l                   35,4          34,W73          14,00?        13,716         10O             9!m1           8,400         9,431
-  lcrte                    -               645     1      5            2,143          2,447          2,471          2,410         2AXI
- 3," 18,1                               30,360         33,043        10I2S          15,67          14,290         I315           34,160
k mt1"  - b hir £va3 ,hle
Io.mvUw     i Itar
- ses                     94,7           93,16          751,0          80,400 .         ,679         7e,m           95,217        75,07
- Diesel                  337,3M        122,426        10,571         -24,294        o0,1W?"         WI,4          101,396        116,01
- fleric                    -           133,000        10,923         35.073         1232,00        111,316       135,343         126,610
- btoel                  272.110         406,463       201,00         329980         316,M          22             301mWe        317,23.
Paansr Coach - VA (o000)
Napn - l  (Voo)              - leedid                  194,300        193,3%        131,910         190            m,53           154,468        150,610        W,7
*  qtMS                   8,904          34,039         92,000         9,7596        719,39          12,g93         0"336           1:1,>0
- loSe                   2n1,07         271,94         77,1710        292,41         2w,84          233,l35        220,0         222s, arn
k dad gap* J""V ('o0a)
vrep lwpn lum-a u Jim ( Dap)                              P2A0           12.0           12.2           12.1           12.5          1t.i           34.2           1962
at foo-b  wr AvatIable lapn hr Toor ('000)               5s9             404            446             702           463            40             4Y            W10
1i Tea-b Pr Statf vat (,C1)                                33            344             326           3              342            333            319            321



- 23 -
ANNEX V
Z I M B A B W E
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
NRZ: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
INCOME STATEMENTS
(Z$ MILLION)
FT 0l=L%C J¶JK&; 30                1963   1904        1905        190G      1907       L90e    195>       ;710
RE:X;l,JS;
til,: Fqticht                       177,10  210,46     20T,38      224,33    222,25     221,37   227,43    30',29
Coasc!                         11,03   13,58      14,81       17,22     21,96      20,76    23,99     25,65
mjaccllan*us                    4,51    7,01       8,95        9,24     10,07      12,50    15.94    19,9'
193,44  231,85     231,14      250,79    254,20     254,63   2G7,26    345,73
Road Mtirnttennce Serviec (PMs)       6,09    7,21       5,87        7,05     10,03      12,59    14,14     16,95
TotaL Revenue                 200,35   239,06    237,01      257,84    265,11     267,22   201,40   562,68
Orr^tJvW  Coet
tlilvoy Coate: Direct               172,9"  193,97    194,39      Z9,11      235,21     239,43   262,49   379,56
RMS Coats    i Direct                 7,41     8,40      7,51       8,07      10,38      11,27    12,20    15,64
Ada4nLntraUlon aOA Cba.ia3           49,W    51.43      67,57      70,45      75,04      69,45   81,54   120,71
Total Operating Costs               230,16  i;53#8o    269,47     297,63     320,63     320,15   356,31    523,91
met OperatLnc Incom                 (29.03). (14,74)   (32,46)    (39,79)   (55,52)   (52,93) (74.91) (161,23)
Mct Retal Zncoeo                      2,82     3,35      3,52       3,76       4,12       5,27     5.60      6,89
Interest Chargcs                     25,20   32,10      59.17      45,50      52.54      51,68    4609      53,36
PlrvioLor.s & 2xosnbue L4mas         (0,GG)  (2,32)    (7,42)    (10,16)    (10,67)    (13,88)  (15,")   (20,58)
Not Inco                   (50,89)  (45,61)   (0.032)   (92,69)   (124,36)  (113,42) (133,69) (220,20)
-           -        -        __ -w_           _      _  _ 



- 24 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PEART IIt STATISTICAL INVORM&hION



- 25 -
TABLE 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
RELATED BANK LOANS
Loan No.                             Year of
Title          PurPose              Approval         Status            Comments
Railroad
subsector
* Loan 1994-ZIM   Increase the           1981           PCR No. 8068       Closing
Transport       utilization of                        May 1989           dates
Rehabilitation  NRZ's existing                                          June 30,
Imports         capacity                                                 1986
Program
e Loan 3273-ZIM   Restructuring of       1990           Effective          Ongoing;
Second Railway  NRZ on more                           July 15, 1991     expected
Project         commercial basis                                         closing
date:
June 30,
1997
Roads subsector
* Loan 2282-ZIM   Improve Zimbabwe's    1983            PCR dated          Closing
Highway         road transport                        March 20, 1991    date:
Project         system                                                  June 30,
1988
* Loan 2939-%IM   Improve the            1988           Effective May 4,  Ongoing;
Second Highway  condition of state                    1989              expected
Project         roads                                                   closing
datet
June 30,
1995



- 26 -
TA5L 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                         Date Planned        Date Revised      Date Actual
* Identification                                                      03/82
* Preparation                  09/82                                  09182
* Appraisal Mission            11/82                                  11/82
* Loan Negotiation                                                    05/31 thru
06/02/83
X Board Approval               05/83                                  08/02/83
* Loan Signature                                                      08/29183
* Loan Effectiveness           09/83                02/29/84          03/29/84
* Loan Closing                 12/31/86             12/31/87          06/30/90
12/31/88
12/31/89



- 27 -
TABLE S
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
LOAN DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disburnements
(US$ '000)
Bank            Appraisal                    Actual as             Date of
Fiscal Year         Estimate       Actual      X of Estimate     Final Disbursement
*  FY84              12,000            100          0.8
*  FY85              28,000            962          3.4
  FY86              40,000          2,697          6.7
*  FY87                              8,596         21.5
X  FY88                             13,914         34.8
*  FY89                             17,009         42.5
*  FY90                             20,810         52.0
*  FY91                             22,560         56.4               11/05/90



- 28 -
TABLE 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal           Actual (or
Indicators                         Estimate            PCR Estimate)
(No. of staff)-------
Technical Assistance2
* Artisans                          1,189                    641
* Engineers                            45                     24
* Draughtsmen                          66                      0
* Technicians                          58                      0
* Foremen                              47                      2
* Computer Staff                       22                     20
* Accountants                           4                      4
Training Program                      ------(Man-months)------
* Training Specialist                  60                     36
* Instructors                         480                    480
* Fellowship Training                 150                     19
Investment Studies4                    72                     48
* Senior Management                     -                    114
Comment: Detailed estimates and actual results of expatriate assistance requirement
are shown in Annex I.
l No implementation indicator was agreed on spare parts program.
2 Estimates are based on the President's Report
a Estimates are based on Schedule 5 of Loan Agreement
4 Estimates are based on the President's Report



- 29 -
TAILS 5A
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROECT COSTS
A.~~ ~ ~ ~                   _
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Foreign                            Foreign
Local    Exchange  Total           Local    Exchange  Total
Item                       Costs    Costs     Costs           Costs    Costs      Costs
(US$ M)   (US$ M)  (USS M)         (US$ M)   (USS M)  (US$M)
Staffing Program          12.1      19.0      31.1
Training Program           1.1       4.6      5.7
Spare Parts               45.0      20.0     65.0
Pre-investment             0.2       1.0       1.2                        N/A
Studies
BASE COST                 58.4      44.6     103.0
Price Contingencies       11.5       6.7       18.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST         2a        1LI       JI
Front End Fee             ---        0.1        0.1
Total                     69.9      51.4     121.3                        N/A
Comments:  NRZ has not been able to provide the total project costs due to the lack
of proper record-keeping.



- 30 -
TABLE 5B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
B. PROJECT FINANCING
Source                      Planned                 Final                 Comments
(US$ '000)            (USS '000)                  (Z)
1BRD/IDA                    40,000               22,560                      56.4
Government of Zimbabwe      81,300                 N/A                        N/A
TotAl                      121,300                N/A                         N/A
Comments:  NRZ has not been able to provide the data regarding GOZ portion of
project financing due to the lack of separated accounts for the project.



- 31 -
TABLE SC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
C. ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Original              Revised                  Actual
Category                  Allocation             (Final)
Disbursements
--------------------------(USS) -------------------------
(1)   Equipment,           1,000,000             15,600,249               9,600,829.55
spare parts
& materials
(2)   Training             1,900,000              1,650,000                 166,769.47
Equipment
(3)   Technical           21,650,000             21,650,000              11,872,329.93
assistance
& fellowship
(4)   Consultants'         1,000,000              1,000,000                 820,571.63
service
(5)   Fee                     99,751                 99,751                  99,751.00
(6)   Unallocated          5,350,249                      0                          0
Total                     40,000,000             40,000,000              22,560,251.58
Comments: The loan allocation was revised twice, in October 1988 and March 1989.
The revisions were made in order to (a) accommodate the purchase of
computer hardware for inventory control of spare parts, and (b)
facilitate maintenance action plans for diesel locomotives proposed
during the supervision mission of February 1988.



- 32 -
TABLE 6A
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits
This section is not applicable
B. Economic Impact
This section is not applicable
C.  Financial Impact
This section is not applicable
Comment:  a)  These sections are not applicable since no benefit cost analysis
was conducted and no indicators were agreed upon between the
Bank and the Borrower.
b)  Summary of NRZ's operational statistics which were agreed in the
reporting requirement dated June 13, 1983 is shown in Annex II.



- 33 -
TABLE 6B
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'LOAN 2342-ZIM)
D. STUDIES
Purpose as                                       impact
Defined at                                         of
Appraisal                Status                  Study
Manpower Study         Assessment of           Completed in            Caused inflated
manpower               November 1982           scale of project
requirement of                                 design
NRZ
Study on               Development of          Completed in            Founded basiL
Computerized           computerized            January 1985            for introduction
Supplies               inventory                                       of inventory
Management             control system                                  control system
System
G5neral                Review of               Completed in            Contributed to
Investment Plan        investment plan         April 1985              investment plan
as part of
National
Transport Study
Manpower Study         Review of               Completed in            Founded basis
initial Manpower       August 1985             for adjusting
Study                                          technical
assistance
Review of              Review of               Completed in            Founded basis
Corporate              organization and        1989                    for Second
Planning Unit          investment                                      Railways Project
and Investment
Plan
Review of              Review of               Completed in            Founded basis
Corporate              organization and        1989                    for Second
Organization and       investment                                      Railways Project
Financial
Structure



- 34 -
TABLE 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Covenant                                            Sublect                 Status
1.    The Borrower shall open a special           Section                In Compliance
account in the Reserve Bank of              3.01 (b)
Zimbabwe with an initial deposit of
Z$ equivalent to US$1,000,000 to
finance part of the foreign exchange
cost of spare parts and shall
promptly replenish this account
until the initial amount and
subsequent replenishment reach
equivalent of US$1,000,000.
2.    The Borrower shall take suitable             Section               In Compliance
action to ensure that (a) approval          3.01 (c)
is granted to import spare parts and
materials, and (b) timely
importation of such goods is
facilitated.
3.    The Borrower shall cause NRZ to             Section                In Compliance
employ experts as referred to in            3.02 (a)
Section 3 of the Agreement.
4.    The Borrower shall cause NRZ to              Section               In Compliance
appoint consultants to carry out            3.02
Part D-1 if required and Part D-2 of
the Project.
5.    The Borrower shall furnish to the           Section                In Compliance
Bank copies of the documents                3.02 (e) and
prepared by consultants and exchange        (f)
views with the Bank on the
conclusions and recommendations
contained in those documents.



- 35 -
TABLE 7 (cont'd)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Covenant                                            Subiect               Status
6.    The Borrower shall cause NRZ to             Section              In Compliance
prepare, from time to time, lists of       3.5 (a) and (b)
spare parts and materials to be
procured for the purposes of the
Project and furnish such lists to
the Bank for approval. (Section
3.05 (a) and (b)l
7.    The Borrower shall cause NRZ to            Section               In Compliance
furnish audited financial statements       4.02 (b)
to the Bank no later than six (6)
months after the end of each fiscal
year.
8.    The Borrower shall review with the          Section              In Compliance
Bank and NRZ the adequacy of the           4.04 (a) and
annual maintenance program and cause       (b)
NRZ to carry out such programs for
the 1984-86 fiscal years.
9.    The Borrower shall cause NRZ to            Section               Investment Plan
review annually with the Borrower          4.05 (a), (b)         for 1985/86
and the Bank the adequacy of the           and (c)               reviewed
amount in its investment plan and
not to undertake investments beyond
those included in its investment
plan estimated to cost more than $2
million in any fiscal year.
10.   The Borrower shall take or cause to        Section               Partly complied
be taken all such measures as such         4.06 (a), (b)         with
be required by NRZ to achieve an           and (c)
adequate working ration during
fiscal years 1985/86 and shall,
before December 1 of each year,
review such measures and furnish to
the Bank the results of such review.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAIF.WAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
Items             PY1982   FY1983   FY1984    FY1985   FY1986   FY1987   FY1988   FY1989   FY1990   TOTAL
--------------------------------------(staff weeks)------------------------------------
Preappraisal      16.4      11.6        --         --        --        --        --       --        --      28.0
Appraisal            --     29.5        --         --        --        --        --        --       --      29.5
Negotiations         --      3.4       1.5         --        --        --        --       --        --       4.9
Supervision         --       2.6      13.1       18.7      12.9     13.4      27.4      14.5       4.0    106.6
Others



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
RAILWAY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2342-ZIM)
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
B. MISSION DAT
Performance
No. of     Mission       D,ys in      Date of         Rating          Types of
Item              MonthlYear6  Persons   Composition    Field          Report         Status"          Problems'
Identificationl
Pre-appraisal         05182       2         R,T              11        06122182
Pre-appraisal         09J82       3         R,F,E            11         11112182
Appraisal             11182       4          R,T,F,E         8          12123182
Post-Appraisal        07/83       1         R                10         08/09/83
Supervision 2         12/83       3         R,T,F            7          01113/84          2               M, P
Supervision 2         05/84       4         R.T,F,E          9          06/25184          2               M, P
Supervision 3         09/85       2         R,E              9         03/03/86           2
Supervision 4        10/86        4         R,F,E,C          13        11114/86           2
Supervision 5        07187        2         F,L              7         09115187           2
Supervision 6        09/88        2         R,F              14        09129/88           2
Supervision 7        02/89        3         R,F,P            17        03/27/89           2
'fi 9 cludes brief vlsits for which supervision reports were not produced
* C - Consultant   E - Economist   F - Financial Analyst   0 - Legal Officer
P - Procurement Advisor   R - Railway Engineer   T - Technical Educator
' 1 - Problem Free or Minor Problems   2 - Moderate Problems   3 - Major Problems
M H - Managerial P - Political



