LDOCU M EN TS     LOAN NUMBER 2342 ZIM
S                                Loan Agreement
(Railway Development Project)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                 , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2342 ZIM
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       R-     i             , 1983, between
ZIMBABWE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth hereir
(said  General  Conditions Applicable   to Loan   and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
.      General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
*      and the following additional terms have.the following meanings:
(a) "NRZ" means the National Railways of Zimbabwe esta-
blished by the Railways Act, Cap. 261 of the Statute Law of the
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "Zimbabwe Dollars" and "Z$" means the currency of the
*  Borrower;
(c) "Fiscal Year" when used in respect of NRZ means NRZ's
fiscal year which begins on July I each year and ends on June 30
of the following year; and
(d) "Investment   Plan" means NRZ's    Capital  Budget and
Development- Programme for the year ending June 30, 1983 and
subsequent years, amounts of which are as- follows: Fiscal Year
1984 - Z$66.0 million; Fiscal Year 1985 - Z$52.6 million; Fiscal
/Year 1986 - Z$38.4 million.
ARTICLE II
.                              -The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($40,000,000).


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
'action 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procu,,ement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The" Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date a, the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
fee equivalent to ninety-nine thousand seven hundred fifty-one
dollars ($99,751).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal    iount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to
one half percent (1/2%) per annum above the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Pe.Iod.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08


﻿-3-
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified Borrowings" means (A) outstanding bor-
rowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
a
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or        the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan Jn accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through NRZ with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
' ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the obligations of the Borrower
under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall open
and thereafter maintain until the completion of the Project, a
special account in the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe and shall deposit
therein an initial amount of $1,000,000 to finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of the spare parts required for Part C
of the Project. Thereafter, the Borrower shall replenish such
special account promptly upon approval of each list of spare


﻿-4-
parts and materials pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement,
to ensure that sufficient funds are available to finance part of
the costs of the spare parts and materials proposed to be pro-
cured in respect of each such list, until the aggregate amount of
the initial deposit and subsequent replenishments shall have
reached $70,000,000.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall take
such action as may be required to ensure that:
(i) approval shall be granted to NRZ in respect of
the importation of goods which shall have been '
approved pursuant to the provisio--s of Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and
(ii)  the timely importation of such goods are facili-
tated.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist NRZ in carrying out its
operations and in the training of its staff, the Borrower shall
cause NRZ to employ the experts and specialists referred to in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower and NRZ in the carrying
out of Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NRZ to
employ appropriate consultants, if required.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of
Part D.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause NRZ to employ
consultants for carrying out manpower studies.
(d) The qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment of the experts, specialists and consultants
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section shall
be satisfactory to the Bank and such experts, specialists and
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
(e) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause the consultants
referred to in the preceding paragraphs (b) and (c) to furnish,
to the Bank, copies of the documents prepared by them in respect
of the Project.


﻿(f) The Borrower shall from time to time exchange views
with the Bank on the conclusions and recommendations contained in
the documents referred to in paragraph (e) of this Section.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause NRZ to
furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports and contract documents for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain       or  cause NRZ to
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish or cause NRZ to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the bene-
fits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan and the goods and services - financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower or NRZ of any contract
for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such


﻿later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause NRZ to:
(a) prepare, from time to time, lists of spare parts and
materials to be procured for the purposes of the Project in
accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(b) furnish such lists to the Bank for approval, prior to
taking any action for their procurement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
.Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority'
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
divisio thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause NRZ to maintain
records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, its operations and finan-
cial condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting its operations, resources and expen-
ditures, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause NRZ to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months alter the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, including without limitation to the foregoing, a
separate opinion by said auditors on the separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and (iii) furnish
/ to the Bank such other information concerning said separate
accounts and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause NRZ:
(a) to take out and maintain with. respons4ble insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent
with appropriate practice;


﻿- 8I-
-8-
(b) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and railway practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times t.o operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering, finan-
cial and railway practices.
Section 4.04. (a) Pursuant to paragraph (c) of Section 4.03 /
of this Agreement and until the end of Fiscal Year 1986, the
Borrower shall, except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise
agree after the review referred to in paragraph (b) of this Sec-
tion, cause NRZ to carry out the maintenance program agreed to
between the Borrower and the Bank for the 1984-1986 Fiscal Years.
(b) The Borrower shall review with the Bank and NRZ the
adequacy of such maintenance program for each Fiscal Year,
including the budgetary allocation required therefor, prior to
May 31 in the preceding Fiscal Year and the Borrower shall make
or cause NRZ to make such revisions to such program for the ensu-
ing Fiscal Year, as may be considered appropriate as a result of
such review.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NRZ:
(a)  to review annually with the Borrower and the Bank the
adequacy of the amounts allocated in its Investment Plan for the
Fiscal Years included in such Plan;
(b) to make revisions in the amount allocated in such Plan
for any Fiscal Year and for subsequent years, if necessary,
having due regard to revisions agreed during the review referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c) not to undertake any investments beyond those included
in its Investment Plan (as may have been amended pursuant to
paragraph (b) of this Section) estimated to cost in the aggregate
in any given Fiscal Year more than the equivalent of two million
dollars ($2,000,000), without prior consultation with the Bank.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, from time to time, take or


﻿cause to be taken, all such measures as shall be required by NRZ
to achieve, for the 1985 and 1986 Fiscal Years, an adequate
working ratio.
(b) Before December 1 in each of NRZ's Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by NRZ and
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, review the adequacy of
its measures (including, without limitation, adjustments uf the
structure or levels of its railway tariffs) needed to meet the
requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next following Fiscal Year, and shall
furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its comple-
tion.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "working ratio" means the total working
expenses expressed as a percentage of gross
operating revenues from all sources;
(ii)  the term "total working expenses" means the sum
of all expenses related to railway operations,
including administrative expenses, including ade-
quate maintenance and taxes, if any, but excluding
depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
and
(iii) the   term  "gross  operating  revenues   from  all
sources" means the sum of revenues from all
sources related to railway operations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that the Borrower
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of NRZ or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) th,:reof, namely that the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely that the special account has been opened and the
initial payment made therein in accordance with the provisions of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date ovA4A.(&    90. t13, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General ,
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance,
Economic Planning and Development
Private Bag 7705
Causeway, Harare
Zimbabwe
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                            MINFIN 2141 ZW
Harare                            Zimbabwe
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ZIMBABWE
a
By (40-0                  ~
Authorized Representatis?
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
BylIs(
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment,               10,000,000         100% of foreign
spare parts                                expenditures
and materials
under Part C
of the Project
(2) Training equip-           1,900,000         100% of foreign
ment       .                               expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3) Technical                21,650,000         100% of foreign
assistance and                             expenditures
fellowships
(4) Consultants'              1,000,000         80% of local
services under                             expenditures
Part D of the                              for services of
Project                                    consultants domi-
ciled within
Zimbabwe and 100%
of foreign expen-
ditures for ser-
vices of other
consultants
(5) Fee                          99,751         Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(6) Unallocated               5,350,249
TOTAL              40,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this -basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement,
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $400,000, may be made in respect of Categories (3)
and (4) on account of expenditures made before that date but
after May 31, 1982; and
(b) payments made for expenditures for goods to be supplied
under a contract which any official bilateral or multilateral
agency shall have financed or agreed to finance.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth- in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures


﻿-14-
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may con-
tinue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, .by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
0


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDUL. 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist NRZ to sustain its
transport capacity and its operational efficiencyi. It consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Maintenance   of  the  operational   efficiency  of  NRZ
through the provision of technical assistance.
Part B:   1.   Carrying out a training program for NRZ staff,
including the provision of training equipment..
2.   Provision of fellowships for selected staff of
a                     NRZ.
Part C:   Acquisition by NRZ of equipment, spare parts and mate-
rials for its operations.
Part D:   1.   Preparation of an investment plan for NRZ includ-
ing appropriate traffic forecasts and financial
projections.
2.   Carrying out of a manpower study for NRZ and
periodic review of such study.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3.
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1989
through   March 15, 2003                    1,335,000
On September 15,.2003, .                         1,285,000
   -- 0
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
more than 16 years
before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
more than 18 years
before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
maturity


﻿- 18
SCHEDULE 4
..    .Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except .as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be- procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Goods shall be bulked together in bidding packages to the
maximum .extent practicable for the purposes of bidding and
procurement.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to   the  place of   their use or    installation  shall be
included.


﻿- 19 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for training equipment estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each shall be procured on the basis
of competitive bidding locally advertised in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank provided, however, that the
aggregate amount of such contracts shall not exceed $500,000
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for proprietary spare parts shall be procured on a
negotiated basis from the original manufacturers or authorized
representatives, on terms satisfactory to the Bank, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount of such contracts shall not
exceed $5,000,000 equivalent.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
O            bidders.
(b) After bids have     been  received  and  evaluated,  the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably     request. The   Bank  shall, if   it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such. contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 5
List of Technical Assistance to be
financed under the Project
(Approximate man-months)
Staffing Program
Artisans                         11,500 man-months
Engineers                           540 man-months
Draughtsmen                         800 man-months
Technicians                         700 man-months
Foremen                             550 man-months
Computer Staff                      265 man-months
Accountants.                         48 man-months
Training Program
Training Specialists                 60 man-months
ILstructors                         480 man-months
Fellowship Training                 150 man-months
O


﻿i
O ;     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this Q   : L  day of  ACkSf198
-           FOR SECRETARY


