Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C,4 c c)    ZD
Report No. 809 3-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 6, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Asia Region
Country Department I
TIis document has a restriktd disibutdon and may be used by redpints only in the perfornance of
their officil dutes. Its contents may not othenwse be dsosed w=itut World Bank authorsation.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(October 1989)
Bangladesh Taka 1         -           US$0.031
US$l                       -          Tk 32.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)         -            0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)           .            2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)     -            2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -     Asian Development Bank
ADP         -     Annual Development Program
ASA         -     Association for Social Advancement
BADC        -      !agladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARC        -     Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BRDB        -     Bangladesh Rural Development Board
BWDB        -     Bangladesh Water Development Board
CIDA        -     Canadian International Development Agency
CIP         -     Chandpur Irrigation Project
DAE         -     Department of Agricultural Extension
EC          -     European Economic Community
EMG         -     Earthworks Maintenance Group
FCD         -     Flood Control and Drainage
FFW         -     Food-for-Work Programme
GOB         -     Government of BanL,ladesh
GON         -     Government of the Netherlands
HTW         -     Hand Tubewell
HYV         -     High Yielding Varieties
::CB        -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -     International Development Association
KIP         -     Karnafuli Irrigation Project
KSS         -     Krishi Samabaya Samity (Village Cooperative)
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
LLP         -     Low Lift Pump
MBSS        -     Mahila Bittahin Samabaya Samity (Landless Cooperative)
MIP         -     Muhuri Irrigation Project
MOA         -     Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MOF         -    Ministry of Fisheries and Livestock
MOI         -     Ministry of Irrigation, Water Development and Flood
Control
MLG         -     Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives
MPO         -     Master Planning Organization
NGO         -     Non-Government Organization
NWP         -     National Water Plan
O&M         -     Operation and Maintenance
SMG         -     Structure Maintenance Group
STW         -     Shallow Tubevell
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Program
WFP         -     World Food Programme



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
Aman        -      Rice planted before or during the monsoon and harvested in
November or December.
Aus         -      Rice planted during February or March and harvested during
June or July.
B.          -     When preceding a crop means broadcast.
Beel        -     Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river water.
Boro        -     Rice transplanted in January or Februarary and harvested in
May or June.
District    -     Administrative unit comprising a number of Upazilas. in the
charge of a Deputy Commissioner
Khal        -     Natural channel.
Khalasi     -      Staff employed by BWDB to inspect embankments or operate
sluices.
Kharif      -      Summer cropping season (May through November).
Monsoon     -      Period of rains starting in June and ending in October.
Rabi        -     Winter cropping season (November through May).
T.          -     When preceding a crop means transplanted.
Upazila     -      Smallest administrative unit of local government.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
B'WDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMRY .          . ..................... . . .    iviv
I.    SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND  .       .  .  .  ..  .  . . . . . . . 1
A.    The Agriculture Sector  . ...... ..........   1
B.    Bangladesh Water Development Board  . . . . . . . . . . . 5
C.    Project History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
II.   THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . .       .. . . .11
A.    Rationale for IDA Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
B.    Project Concept and Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
C.  Project Components ... . ...12
D.  Detailed Features.. . . 12
E.    Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule . . . . 18
F.    Environmental Aspects .......1
G.    Project Cost ........                   . . . .. .  . .    19
H.    Project Financing       . . . . . ...  ...21
I.    Procurement . .. .      .  ............             . . .   .  22
J.  Disbursements ..              ..                       . . . 24
K.    Accounts and Audit  ........
III.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..        ......27
IV.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY . . . . . 33
A.    Agricultural Production           3....                       33
B.    Marketing and Prices            . . .  . . .          .  .    36
C.  Farm Budgets .. . .. 36
D.    Cost Recovery . . .. .  . .. 37
This report is based on the findings of a joint appraisal mission of IDA, the
Government of the Netherlands (GON), the European Economic Community (EC) and
the World Food Programme (WFP). Mission members for IDA were Messrs. H. van
Voorthuizen, G. Schokman, J. Bredie, J. Pruntel (IDA), C. Amorin, A. Hamid, T.
Jansen and H.R. Khan (Consultants). Mr. J. van der Laan participated for GON.
The EC was represented by Messrs. J. Jonckers, N. Joncheere (EC), Q. Chowdhury
and R. van der Val (Consultants). Messrs. J. Conway of WFP and A. Filotti,
Chief Technical Adviser for PFW, also participated in the mission.



- ii -
V.  PROJECTJUSTIFICATIONANDRISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
A.    Project Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . 40
B.    Economic Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '.0
C.    Sensitivity Analysis and Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
VI. AGREENTS AND RECO 4ENDATION .                   .. . . . . . . . . . 42
ANNEXES
1.    Selection of Subprojects for Rehabilitation and Improvement
Table ls Appraised Subprojects
Table 2: Unappraised Prepared Subprojects
Table 3: Identified Subprojects
2.    Iproved Operation and Maintenance
Table 1: Estimated Annual O&M Costs
3.    On-farm Development
4.    Training and Staff Development
Table 1: Indicative Annual Number of Trainees for OWM
5.   Technical Assistance - Guidelines for Prenaration of Terms of Reference
6.   Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates and Budget Allocations
7.    Implementation Schedules
Schedule 1: Rehabilitation and Improvement
Schedule 2: Other Components
8.    Cost Estimates
Tables  1-6:  Rehabilitation Works, Six Appraised Subprojects
Table     7: Rahabilitation Works, Ten Prepared Subprojects
Table     8: Rehabilitation Works, Sixty Identified Subprojects
Table     9:  Maintenance During Construction
Table 10-13: Improved Operation and Maintenance, Four Subprojects
Table    14:  On-farm Development
Table    15:  Training and Staff Development
Table    16:  Technical Assistance
Table    17:  Equipment and Vehicles
9.    Financing and Disbursements
Table 1: Financing Plan by Summary Accounts
Table 2: Proposed Credit Allocation
Table 3: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Procurement Schedule
11.  Crop Production and Incomes of Appraised Subprojects
Table 1-5 s Crop Areas, Yields and Production
Table 6-10 Farm Budgets



- iii -
12.   Economic Evaluation of Appraised Subprojects
Table 1: Derivation of Economic: Prices
Table 2: Sumary of Financial and Economic Prices
Table 3: Sunmary of Project Economic Rate of Return and Net
Present Value
13.   Related Documents in Project File
CHART W45360A: Organization Structure
MAP    IBRD 21731     Location of Subprojects
.,



- iv -
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Sunmmary
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                  SDR40.8 million (US$53.9 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA Terms with a maturity of 40 years
Cofinanciers:            The European Economic Ccmmunity (EC) will provide a
grant of ECU 13.5 million (US$15.0 million equivalent)
and the Government of tSe Netherlands (GON) a grant of
DFI 25.23 million (US$12.6 million equivalent)
Proiect Description:    The main objectives of the project are to protect and
increase agricultural production and incomes and to
raise standards of living, particularly of landless
people and women, through rehabilitation and improved
operation and maintenance (O&M) of BWDB's existing
flood control. drainage. and irrigation projects.
Subsidiary objectives are to (a) increase financing
and encourage more efficient use of funds for O&M
through better planning and reduction of costs, where
possible, (b) improve skills and motivation of BWDB
staff for O&M tasks, and (c) increase involvement of
the farmers in planning, construction, operation and
maintenance, particularly of on-farm development
works. These objectives would be achieved through (a)
rehabilitation and improvement of about 80
subprojects, covering a gross area of about 600,000 ha
which have deteriorated due to inadequate maintenance,
(b) introduction of improved O&H in BWDB's projects,
starting in four schemes where infrastructure still is
in reasonably good condition, but not maintained
properly, (c) on-farm development works and improved
O&M in two subprojects with farmers' participation,
(d) training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries,
particularly for O&M, and (e) provision of technical
assistance to assist BWDB in planning, design and
execution of rehabilitation, improvement, on-farm
development and O&M works and to help strengthen its
organization for O&M and staff development. The World
Food Programme (WFP) would provide food to finance
part of construction and maintenance of earthworks to
be carried out under the rehabilitation and improved
O&M components.



Benefits and Risks'     As * result of the project, the average incomes of
some 700,000 families would  acreage by about 25Z due
to higher crop production resulting 'rou improved
drainage conditions and expansion of irrigation. At
the same time, their current incomes would be better
protected against losses due to deterioration of
BVDB's facilities. The project would also generate an
additional labor demand of about 25,000 man-years per
year for farm activities. Additional employment
created during the rehabilisation and OxM activities
is estimated at about 100,000 man-years; this would
mainly benefit the landless. Possible delays in pre-
construction activities may delay project
implementation.   However, land acquisition
requirements for this project are minimal and
arrangements have been incorporated in the project
design to minimize the risk of delays. Shortage of
local funds for rehabilitation and O&M may also delay
implementation. The contribution of GOB has there'ore
been kept at a minimum and external donors would
finance a substantial part of the incremental OEM
costs of the subprojects.  Special emphasis would also
be given in the project to reducing the cost and
improving the standards of OEM.
Project Cost:
Local      ForeiRn      Total
-_--_ -- - -US$ million… -
Rehabilitation and Improvement Works:
Land Acquisition                               2.0          -           2.0
Surveys and Investigations                     0.1          -           0.1
Civil works                                   34.7         2.7         37.4
Engineering and Administration                 4.4          -           4.4
Maintenance during Construction               10.0          -          10.0
Subtotal                                   51.2         2.7         53.9
Improved Operation and Maintenance              13.2         0.1         13.3
On-farm Development                              0.9          -           0.9
Training and Staff Development                   2.1         0.6          2.7
Technical Assistance                             4.9         6.0         10.9
Equipment and Vehicles                           0.4         0.5          0.9
Base Cost                                  72.7         9.9         82.6
Physical Contingencies                           6.9         1.1          8.0
Price Contingencies                             18.9         1.5         20.4
Total Cost a/                              98.5        12.5        111.0
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$2.2 million.



_ Yi -
Financing Plan
Local      Foreign       Total
------  US$ million--
Government                                        29.6          -           29.6
IDA                                               50.4         3.5          53.9
EC                                                11.9         3.0          14.9
GON                                                 6.6        6.0          12.6
Total                                          98.5        12.5         111.0
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit
FY          1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997    1998
----------------------------US$ million----------------------__
Annual        5.0      5.3      11.7     12.0       8.4      5.3       4.3     1.9
Cumulative   5.0      10M3     22.0      34.0     42.4      47.7      52.0    53.9
Economic Rate of Return      372
MAP: IBRD 21731



BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. The Agriculture Sector
Setting and Recent Trends
1.01       Bangladesh has a population of about 110 million, which continues
to grow at an annual rate of about 2.4Z. The large majority of the people
live in the rural areas and depend on agriculture for a living. Population
density now exceeds 1,000 persons per square km of cultivable land and more
than 70? of the people are living in conditions of absolute poverty. Per
capita income is US$170. Developing a capability for self-sufficiency in food
grains has been the central objective of the Government of Bangladesh's (GOB)
strategy for agricultural development since the country became independent in
1971. During the 1980s GOB has endeavored to support the development of the
sector by (a) reorientation of public expenditures in favor of low-cost
irrigation, flood control, and drainage projects, (b) economic libera;izai"on
to encourage private sector participation in the distribution of agricultural
inputs, and (c) strengthening of agricultural support services such as
extension, research, credit and farmers' organizations. However,
suscept.b"lity to weather vagaries (floods and droughts) and inadequate
investments in fluod control and irrigation have resulted in lower than
expected growth rates. Production of food grains still falls 102-15? short of
requirements and imports vary between one and two million m ton in most years.
1.02       The agricultural sector contributes at present about one half of
GDP, employs about 60? of the labor force and generates about 60? of the
country's export earnings. Agriculture value added increased at an annual
rate of about 32 over the period FY81-86. However, during the last three
years (FY87-89), the growth rate averaged only about 1.7? due to a slow down
in minor irrigation development, the exceptional floods of 1987 and 1988, and
a snarp cutback in development expenditures for agriculture and water
resources. Production in the crop subsector continues to be dominated by food
grains, accounting for about 85? of the cultivated area. Food grain
production increased at an average rate of 2.82 per year during the last
decade, which is about 0.3? higher than the inctzase in population during the
same period. About two thirds of this increase came from dry season cropping,
confirming the critical role of irrigation, together with fertilizers and
better seeds, in helping the country attain food self-sufficiency. Reliable
irrigation typically increases production per unit of land by about 30? during
the monsoon season and at least doubles it during the dry season. Irrigation
has been extended over the past 15 years by about 100,000 ha per year, mainly
through the installation of hand tubewells (HTW), shallow tubewell.; (STW) and



deep tubewells (DTW) for the extraction of groundwater, and use of low lift
pumps (LLP) to exploit surface water resources. In addition, the construction
of flood control and drainage works has helped to secure harvesting of dry
season crops before the onset of the monsoon ra.j.u and has made it possible to
introduce improved technology, including supplementary irrigation, to raise
the production of rainfed wet season crops. To som extent, the growth in
food grain production has been achieved at the expense of other crops. Except
for potatoes and onions, the areas under other food crops have declined. Jute
production has declined at an average annual rate of 1.4Z despite an average
yield increase of 1.3Z. On the other hand, tea production has increased at a
rate of 2.71 pe: annum, mainly as a result of improved yields, while cagar
production has xncreased by about 1.31 per year as a result of area expansion.
Growth rates during the last decade in the 14vestock, fisheries, and forestry
sub-sectors were mixed. The increase in production of milk was lower, that of
meat about equal, and that of eggs, fish and fuel wood slightly higher than
the growth in population during the period.
Potential for Growth
1.03       Irrigation has the potential to continue to lead agricultural
growth in the future. The 1986 draft National Water Plan estimates that the
present irrigation coverage of about 2.3 million ha could more than double
using relatively inexpensive minor irrigation equipment to exploit readily
available groundwater and surface water resources. In the long term, the
water resources of the Brabmaputra, Ganges and Meghna rivers would have to be
developed to expand irrigation further. Developing the irrigation potential
in the near and medium term will mainly depend on initiatives by the private
sector. Public sectfr support should be limited to providing a policy
environment which stimulates sales of agricultural inputs and equipment,
improvisg the quality of agricultural support serv-Aces, and providing
essential infrastructure such as basic flood control and irrigation
infrastructure. Flood control and drainage facilities, now covering about 2.5
million ha, should be expanded to cover all areas (about five million he)
where such facilities would help limit pre-monsoon flood damage to standing
crops and intensify the production of monsoon season crops. A good potential
also exists for further growth in the fisheries sub-sector through development
of flood plain fisheries, pond aquaculture and coastal aquaculture, especially
shrimp production. Prospects for growth in the livestock subsector are
limited, mainly because of the scarcity of land for grazing and fodder
production.
Prerequisitas for Growth
1.04       In order to stimulate agricultural production and further develop
the country's water resources, GOB should (a) further liberalize the sale of
minor irrigation equipment, (b) reorient and accelerate implementation of the
flood control and drainage investment program to support further minor
irrigation and fisheries development, (c) improve and reorient the
productivity of the agricultural research and extension systems to meet the
needs for intensification and diversification of production, and (d)
strengthen the agriceltural credit system to allow access to it by a majority



of producers.  Equally important, GOB should ensure that tt'e existing pu:'Aic
stock of flood control, drainage, and irrigation facilities is efficiently
operated, adequately maintained, and fully utilized with maximum participation
of the beneficiaries. Finally, special care should be taken to allow
disadvantaged groups such as landless people and women, to contribute to and
share in the benefits of growth in the agricultural sector.
Past Investments in the Water Resources Sector
1.05       The Bank's 1989 Public Expenditure Review confirmed that many parts
of GOB's recurrent budget continue to be seriously under-funded, particularly
the operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing infrastructure. 'While
scarcity of local funds is an important factor, a lack of emphasis on O&M in
the planning process (as compared to new investments) has also proved to be a
major constraint. It is estimated that GOB's allocation under the Revenue
Budget for O&M of BWDB's flood control, drainage, and irrigation projects has
fallen some 302 - 402 short of requirements in recent years (para 1.16). At
the same time, cost recovery from the beneficiaries has been negligib'e (paras
4.09 through 4.14). As a result, all projects suffer from a lack of regular
maintenance and many have deteriorated to a stage where major rehabilitation
works have become necessary. Lack of regular maintenance not only reduces the
effectiveness of projects and curtails their potential benefits, it also
increases the risk of major flood damage, particularly during severe floods
such as those that occurred in 1987 and 1988. For want of better alternatives
GOB has attempted to address this situation on an ad-hoc basis by including
rehabilitation components in new projects, where possisle, or by expanding
emergency rehabilitation schemes following exceptional floods. The Food-for-
Work Programme (FFN) supported by the World Food Programme (WFP), has been a
major source of assistance over the years for undertaking repair works in
water sector projects. Each year, some 100,000 m ton of wheat are made
available under this program to resection embankments and re-excavate
irrigation and drainage channels.
1.06       There are other factors which limit the effectiveness of past
investments in water resources infrastructure. These include weaknesses in
the procedures and practices for O&M, and insufficient involvement of the
beneficiaries. Poor procedures for O&M are largely due to lack of planning,
insufficient staff capabilities and motivation, and a tendency of the
responsible agencies to favor the construction of new projects over the
maintenance of existing ones. Thir, in turn, reflects the unsatisfactory
funding for OWM. Little effort is being made to involve the beneficiaries on
a routine basis in the O&M of project facilities, except during emergencies
when farmers mobilize in large numbers to protect the embankments. Farmers
commonly hold the GOB agencies, which first arrange for construction of the
projects, responsible for OEM of the facilities. Changing this attitude is a
major challenge for GOB and will require (a) much closer consultation between
officials and beneficiaries to ensure that the plans and designs for the
schemes address all of their interests, (b) public education to stress the
need for farmers to assume some of the responsibilities and costs of
maintaining the facilities from which they benefit, and (c) enforcement of
legislation governing the payment of water charges by the beneficiaries.



-4-
Institutions Involved
1.07       In order to promote agricultural growth, Bangladesh must improve
the performance of its public sector institutions. These include the
Ministries of Agriculture and Forests (MOA), Fisheries and Livestock (MOF),
Irrigation, Water Development and Flood Control (MOI). Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLG) and the semi-autonomous agencies under
their control. The Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), under MOI, is
responsible for planning, implementation and O&M of surface water irrigation,
flood crntrol, and drainage projects, including town protection and river
training schemes (see Section B of this Chapter). The Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC), under MOA, is involved in development of minor
irrigation systems involving the use of LLPs as well as HTWs, STWs, and DTWs
to tap the aquifer. In the past, BADC also was the main supplier of farm
inputs, including fertilizer, seeds, and minor irrigation equipment. However,
in recent years some of these responsibilities, particularly at the retail
level, have been transferred to the private sector. The Bangladesh
Agricultural Rese&rch Council (BARC), also under MOA, coordinates the research
activities of specialized institutions covering rice, jute, sugar, forestry,
fishery, tea, livestock, and other crops and horticulture. The Department of
Agricultural Extension (DAE) of MOA provides extension services to the
farmers. The Bangladesh Rural Development Board (BRDB), under MLG, promotes
the growth of farmer cooperatives, which collect thrift deposits, promote
group management of minor irrigation equipment, and provide credit and inputs
to small farMers. The Master Plan Organization (MPO), under MOI, is
responsible for preparation and updating of a National Water Plan (NWP) for
the most effective long term use of the country's water resources.
1.08       In recent years the administrative responsibility for providing
services to the agricultural sector has been transferred to local government
institutions at the Zila and Upazila levels. Various programs to improve the
services are underway or due to start shortly. Agricultural research,
extension, and credit services, are being strengthened under national
programs, with external assistance by IDA and other donors. These services
are essential to securing the full benefits of investments in water resources.
IDA's Involvement in Agricultural Development
1.09       IDA lending to Bangladesh has emphasized the agricultural sector,
in recognition of the country's needs and priorities. Within the sector
particular emphasis has been placed on developing water resources,
strengthening agricultural services, and developing complementary
infrastructure in other sectors such as transport and power. Consistent with
GOB's priorities, increased production of food grains has been the main target
of IDA's lending in agriculture. Ongoing IDA-supported projects in the
agricultural sector includet Extension and Research II (Cr. 1215-BD), Deep
Tubewells II (Cr. 1287-BD), Rural Development II (Cr. 1384-BD), Agricultural
Research II (Cr. 1455-BD), BWDB Small Schemes (Cr. 1467-BD), Flood Control and
Drainage III and IV (Cr. 1591 and 1784-BD, respectively), and Small Scale
Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation II (Cr. 1870-BD). Damage repair works



- 5 -
on water sector infrastructure following the floods of 1987 and 1988 are being
financed by IDA under Flood Rehabilitation II and III (Cr. 1876 and 2048-BD,
respectively) and under Credit 1870-BD.
1.10       Over the years, IDA and GOB staff have participated in a number
of joint studies. Of special significance was the Land and Water Resources
Survey (1972) that led GOB to change its strategy for developing water
resources to low-cost irrigation, flood control, and drainage schemes. Other
important studies are the Minor Irrigation Sector Review (1982) and the Review
of Agricultural Credit (1984). These studies supported agricultural policy
reforms, including the privatization of procurement and distribution of
irrigation equipment, and the improvement of farmers' access to institutional
credit. Reviews by IDA staff of the crop production and fisheries subsectors
have been completed in most respects. In addition, the Bank is the Executing
Agency for the UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project which entered its
second phase in 1988. IDA staff also have been involved in several studies to
improve the performance of BWDB (para 1.21). Finally, the Bank is leading an
international effort aimed at designing an Action Plan to control annual
flooding in Bangladesh.
B. Bangladesh Water Development Board
Mandate and Sources of Financing
1.11       BWDB was established in 1972, when the former East Pakistan Water
and Power Development Authority (EPWAPDA) was divided into two separate
agencies -- the BWDB and the Power Development Board (PDB). Under the
administrative control of !iOI, BWI)B's mandate is to plan, construct, operate
and maintain projects for surface water irrigation, flood control, and
drainage, including town protection and river training, throughout Bangladesh.
According to GOB's Third Five Year Plan (1985-90), BIWDB was expected to
increase the area under surface irrigation from about 290,000 ha to about
600,000 ha and the area with flood control and drainage facilities from about
2.5 million ha to about 3.3 million ha. However, progress has been slow and
it is unlikely that these targets will be achieved. BWDB is also responsible
for operating and maintaining about 400 completed projects ranging in size
from small single-structure schemes to large multi-purpose flood control,
drainage, and irrigation projects. The main sources of financing in FY89 were
(a) GOB's Development Budget with an allocation of about US$ 177 million for
the construction of about 40 new projects and rehabilitation of a large number
of existing schemes which were damaged during the floods of 192? and 1988, (b)
the Revenue Budget with an allocation of about US$ 24 million for O&M of
completed projects (including about US$ 9 million for debt service, taxes and
arrears), and (c) the Food-for-Work Programme (FFW) with an allocation of
97,500 m ton of wheat (valued at about US$ 16 million) of which about 902 is
utilized for the repair and maintenance of existing projects, and the balance
for the construction of new schemes. Since 1972 IDA has supported BWDB's
program with 14 credits, totalling US$386 million for 11 new projects und
three flood rehabilitation operations. Seven of the new projects and one of
the flood rehabilitation operations have been completed.



Organization and Staffing
1.12       BWDB's organization and staffing pattern reflect broadly the
division between planning, design, and construction of new schemes on the one
hand, and O&M of existing schemes on the other.  The organization  X managed
by a six member Board comprising a Chairman, and five Members for lanning,
Implementation, Operation and Maintenance, Administration, and Finance,
respectively. The headquarters organization, located in Dhaka, is primarily
responsible for administration, finance, planning and design while
construction and O&M are the responsibility of the field organization. As of
December 1987, BWDB employed 18,013 staff. About 1,575 were class I managers,
engineers, and administrators, and about 16,440 were class II, III and IV
middle and lower-level technical and support staff. About one third of BWDB
employees are assigned to O&M. However, these staff are also responsible for
construction and rehabilitation of small projects.
Past Performance and Current Problems
1.13        General.   BWDB suffers from a number of basic problems that are
common to most GOB organizations and are only partly within their control.
These include (a) poor motivation of staff to perform well, amongst others
because of inadequate incentives, (b) slow and complicated administrative
approval procedures and insufficient delegation of responsibilities at all
levels, and (c) inadequate budgets and slow release of funds. These problems
are reflected in BWDB's perfo.mance, both in planning and construction of new
projects and O&M of existing schemes.
1.14       Construction of New Proiects.  Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPAR) prepared for five completed IDA-financed projects indicate that four
have been successfull while one project (the Barisal Irrigation Project) has
not reached its full potential.1 However, the audit reports also indicate
that all completed projects experienced serious construction delays. On the
average it took about eight years to complete the schemes instead of five
years as originally planned. Projects currently under construction experience
similar delays, most of which occur at the pre-construction stage. There are
at least three sources for the delays.   First, BWDB does not have the in-
house capacity to conduct full feasibility studies for its new projects and
has to rely on consultants for this work. The administrative procedures for
appointing consultants are time-consuming and MOI must approve all
appointments. Second, BWDB's capacity to design project works is limited
because it has not been able to retain the required numbers of qualified
1 (a) Chandpur Irrigation Project, Cr. 340-BD, PPAR Report No. 3436, dated
April 30, 1981.
(b) Karnafuli Irrigation Project, Cr. 605-BD, and Barisal Irrigation
Project Cr. 542-BD, PPAR Report No. 6521, dated November 21, 1986.
(c) Muhuri Irrigation Project, Cr. 725-BD, PCR, dated March 10, 1989.
(d) Drainage and Flood Control Project, Cr. 864-BD, PCR, dated January,
13, 1989.



- 7 -
design engineers on its staff. Consequently, an increasing portion of the
design work also has to be contracted out to consultants, but BWDB then is
slow in approving the designs. Third, procedures for acquiring land for
construction are long and complicated and actual acquisiion of land often is
delayed because of a shortage of local funds. Construction of three IDA-
finarced flood control and drainage projects is at present seriously delayed
because of acute local funds shortfalls for land acquisition. Delays also
occur during the construction stage, due to procurement problems, insufficient
budget allocations, or slow release of funds. During FY87 and FY88, for
example, BWDB's actual expenditures fell about 20Z short of its original
allocations under the Development Budget. Poor qualLty of construction due to
inadequate supervision of works by BWDB staff was a major problem in the past.
In recent years BWDB has employed consultants on several projects to monitor
construction works and help maintain quality standards. Quality of works has
indeed improved but there still remains substantial room for further
improvement.
1.15       Operation and Maintenance of Existing Projects.  The potential
benefits of past investments in BWDB's projects have not been fully realized
due to weaknesses in operation and maintenance resulting in deterioration of
the systems. The underlying reasons for these weaknesses include (a)
inadequate budget allocations, (b) inefficient use of available funds, (c)
deficiencies in BWDB's organizational arrangements, procedures and staff
capabilities for O&K, and (d) insufficient participation of farmers.
1.16       As mentioned in para 1.05, allocations under GOB's Revenue Budget
for O&M of BWDB's projects have consistently fallen short of requirements in
recent years. For example, the total requirement in FY89 for O&M of about 400
projects was estimated at about US$40 million equivalent. However, the
allocation for O&M activities under the Revenue Budget was only about US$15
million equivalent while another US$15 million worth of works was undertaken
under FFW.  The shortfall in funding was therefore about US$10 million
equivalent. This corresponds to about 25Z of BWDB's total requirement for OEM
and about 40Z of funding needed under the Revenue Budget   Since BWDB gives
priority to the payment of staff salaries and electricity bills, the shortfall
in funding is particularly severe for maintenance works. It is estimated that
BWDB's budget requirements for OEM increase by about 5Z per year on account of
new projects being completed. A sustained annual increase of 102 (in real
terms) of BWDB's Revenue Budget over a period of about ten years would be
needed to close the financing gap (see Annex 6 for further details on OEM cost
estimates and budget allocations).
1.17       While the budget provisions for O&M are too low, the use of funds
allocated is less th&n optimal. The cost of establishment accounted in FY89
for about 35? of BWDB's estimated requirements for OEM (total of Revenue
Budget and FFW). This is much higher than one normally would expect and
reflects the presence of a substantial staff surplus in BWDB. For all BWDB
operations corAbined, i.e. planning and construction of new works and OEM of
existing projects, staff pay and allowances accounted for 17Z of expenditures
in FY88, other establishment costs for 4? and works for 79?. Normally, when
operations are conducted efficiently, the establishment cost should not exceed



- 8 -
10? - 12Z of total expenditures. A detailed analysis of O&M activities and
staff requirements in three major irrigation projects was undertaken during
the preparation of the project. The analysis confirmed that BIWDB's present
staff in the three projects exceeds requirements by a large margin.
1.18       As increasing numbers of projects are being completed, BWDB's O&M
function is rapidly gaining importance. This has as yet not been reflected
adequately in its organizational set-up and staff skills. Ideally, the
construction of new and O&M of existing projects should be implemented by
separate organizational units, given the different nature and requirements of
these activities. BWDB has moved in that direction in 1983 when the position
of Member for OEM was established on its Board, and in 1985 when the field
organization was divided into an Implementation wing under the Member for
Implementation and an O&M wing under the Member for O&M.  The Implementation
wing was made responsible for the construction of large projects while the O&M
wing assumed responsibility for O&M of all completed projects, rehabilitation
of deteriorated schemes, and the construction of small new schemes. Given the
composition and geographical distribution of its work load and the need to
use staff resources efficiently, it would at this stage not be desirable to
establish two parallel territorial organizations, i.e. one for the
construction of all new projects (both large and small) and one for O&M of all
existing schemes. By implication, most of BWDB's field divisions will
continue to be responsible for construction, rehabilitation and O&M of series
of relatively small projects. However, in order to give due attention to O&M
and to co%.aler the natural tendency of BWDB's professional staff to favor new
construction works (in part caused by chronic underfunding of O&M activities),
the planning and budgeting process for O&M needs to be strengthened, staff
development and training activities expanded, and funding for O&M increased.
1.19       BWDB's earlier focus on construction has resulted in a
concentration of staff skills in that area. Also, training in construction
and design skills in the past was primarily made available to higher and
middle level engineering staff, largely excluding lower level staff and
beneficiaries. Consequently, BWDB staff are not adequately prepared to carry
out proper O&M. To correct this situation, training and staff development
programs must be reniirected zo provide staff witb specific O&M  skills.  The
required skills have been identified through a training need survey during
project preparation. The survey also revealed that training should be
targetted to middle and lower level staff and beneficiaries. In addition, it
highlighted the need to pay attention to staff motivation and interest in O&M
during training and the need to include training for women and the landless in
simple construction skills, as has been done in other projects.
1.20        The involvement of beneficiaries in planning, construction and O&M
of BWDB's projects is important for three main reasons, namely (a) to make the
beneficiaries partners in the development of the projects, (b) to reduce the
public burden of operating and maintaining the schemes, and (c) to encourage
the farmers to make the fullest possible use of the facilities made available
to them. With regard to the second reason, GOB recently terminated the rental
program for LLPs in BWDB's major irrigation projects and the pumps are now
being sold to the farmers, thus reducing the O&M costs of these projects. GOB



- 9 -
also is introducing new legislation to simplify the assessment and collection
procedures for water charges in BWDB's irrigation projects (para 4.13).
Concerning the third reason, there is scope in several of BWDB's projects for
farmers to cooperate with BWDB in constructing on-farm development works to
expand the area under irrig ; n.
Institutional Reviews
1.21        Several studies of BWDB's institutional capability have been made
over the last ten years by IDA staff and consultants. A major review of
BWDB's investment program and organization, undertaken jointly by GOB and IDA
staff in 1978-79, concluded that it was vital to strengthen planning in the
water resources sector. The review recommended the establishment of a Master
Planning Organization (MPO) as a separate entity. The review also led to a
follow-up study on BWDB's organizational and implementation aspects which was
undertaken in 1980-81. Some of the study's main recommendations have been
implemented over the years. These include the establishment of the position
of Member for O&M on BWDB's Board, the organizational separation of
construction and O&M, where feasible, and limited decentralization of
authority to the field. A further study of BWDB's institutional capability
was completed by consultants in 1988. The last study, together with the
studies undertaken earlier, served as a basis for an Action Plan, prepared by
IDA staff, to improve BWDB's performance. Some of the proposed actions will
be implemented shortly. These actions include (a) modernization of BWDB's
financial management and accounting systems,and (b) establishment of an
operation and maintenance cost cell. The cost cell will collect and process
accurate data on O&M costs for all projects. The data base will be used for
formulating future budget requests and for determining accurate water charges
in irrigation projects. Both actions are being su-jorted under the Second
Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigatiou Project (Credit 1870-BD).
The present project would support actions to (a) institute a phased approach
to determine BWDB's staff requirements and training needs (paras 2.18 and
3.14), and (b) provide the Member for O&M with a headquarters techntical staff
(para 3.01). Other proposed actions are still being discussed by GOB and IDA
in the framework of proposed future lending operations.
C. Project History
1.22        The project was identified during discussions between IDA and GOB
staff in late 1982. As a first step, a pre-feasibility study was organized
with UNDP financing to assess the condition of all BWDB schemes. This study,
completed in 1984, disclosed that about one half of BWDB's 400 projects
required rehabilitation works. In the context of the proposed project,
rehabilitation was defined as the repair of facilities that have deteriorated
over time due to inadequa .e regular maintenance. It has proven useful to
distinguish two types of rehabilitation under this category, namely (a)
repairs that will restore benefits that have been lost due to deterioration,
and (b) repairs that will prevent future losses should the deterioration be
permitted to continue. The pre-feasibility study also recommended expanding
the project scope, where appropriate and feasible, to include (a) completion



- 10 -
of facilities originally planned but not carried out, (b) improvement works
that would result in greater returns than those originally planned, and (c)
additions that would extend the subprojects to areas outside the original
boundaries and/or provide a new category of benefits.
1.23         As a second step, feasibility studies were undertaken, also
financed by VNDP, for a representative cross section (by type and location) of
21 subprojects. The studies, completed in January 1989, also included the
preparation of detailed designs for the 21 subprojects and a special report on
organization and training for O&M. An IDA preparation mission recommended,
and GOB agreed, to exclude small subprojects, costing less than about
US$50,000 each, from the proposed project since the necessary rehabilitation
works could be faster implemented under other existing project arrangements.
Similrrly, it was decided to undertake the rehabilitation of sea dykes in the
coastal areas under the proposed Cyclone Protection Project, except for
emergency repair works which are being carried out under the Second and Third
Flood Rehabilitation Projects. The total number of subprojects to be
rehabilitated under this project therefore was reduced to about 80.
1.24       In addition to the proposed rehabilitation and improvement works.
separate project components were developed to improve O&M procedures and
practices in BWDB's projects and to encourage farmer participation in the
execution of on-farm development works. The BWDB Small Schemes Project (Cr.
1467-BD) already included a pilot O&M program which covered four BWDB O&M
field divisions. However, during implementation it was found that many of the
facilities under the four divisions needed major rehabilitation works prior to
the introduction of improved O&M. Consequently, the pilot O&M program could
not be implemented as intended within the time and funds available. It was
therefore decided to select a number of projects which are in reasonably good
condition and to design a program for improved O&M of those projects. A
consultancy was organized in mid-1988 to analyze O&M conditions in three
recently completed, IDA financed, major irrigation projects (i.e. Chandpur,
Karnafuli and Muhuri) and several small flood control and drainage schemes
under BWDB's Rajshahi O&M Division. This division was originally included in
the pilot O&M program of the BWDB Small Schemes Project. None of the selected
projects requires major rehabilitation works at this time but all show early
signs of deterioration due to lack of funds and poor organization of O&M. The
consultant also prepared specific proposals for two schemes to encourage
greater participation by the beneficiaries in on-farm development work for
irrigation.



- 11 -
I1. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.01      During the last decade IDA has worked closely with GOB to devise
a comprehensive strategy for developing the country's water resources
and has financed a number of BWDB's flood control, drainage, and irrigation
projects (paras 1.09 and 1.10). This project forms an integral part of that
strategy. It is a national program which focusses on improving the services
provided by existing flood control, drainage, and irrigation infrastructure.
Such improvements are critical for securing the full benefits from earlier
investments. They are also critical for establishing a sound basis for the
longer term development of Bangladesh' water resources which is a pre-
requisite for continued growth of the agriculture sector. The envisaged
improvements of O&M procedures and the increased participation by the farmers
deviate from present practices and require the technical and financial backing
of an institution like IDA to succeed. Given IDA's past involvement, it has
comparative advantage to lead this initiative and to mobilize support by other
donors.
B. Project Concept and Objectives
concept
2.02      The project would support a series of interrelated actions designed
to upgrade the level of services provided by BWDB's existing irrigation, flood
control, and drainage projects. First, water control infrastructure which has
deteriorated due to lack of regular maintenance would be rehabilitated and
improved. Second, programs of improved O&M would be introduced gradually in
all projects. The program would start in selected projects which do not
require major rehabiliation works at this time, and would be expanded at a
later stage to projects where rehabilitation and improvement works have been
completed. Third, a program of on-farm development works would be carried out
in selected schemes in order to encourage farmers to make better use of the
infrastructure provided, particularly for irrigation. Fourth, BWDB's
organization for 0&M and for staff development would be strengthened, and BWDB
staff and beneficiaries would be trained, particularly for O&M tasks. Fifth,
measures would be taken to transfer part of the financial burden for OEM of
irrigation infrastructure from the public sector to the beneficiaries. Cixth,
arrangements would be made to involve disadvantaged groups such as landless
persons and women in the maintenance works of the projects.
Objectives
2.03      The project's main objectives are to protect and increase
agricultural production and incomes and to raise the standards of living,
particularly those of landless persons and women, through rehabilitation and
improved O&H of BWDB's existing projects. Several subsidiary objectives would
be pursued in order to attain the main objectives. These include (a)
increased financing and more efficient use of funds for OMH through better
planning and reduction of costs, where possible, (b) improved skills and



- 12 -
better motivation of BWDB staff for O&M tasks, and (c) increased involvement
of the farviers in planning, construction and O&M, particularly for on-farm
developmuit works.
C. Project Components
2.04      The project includes the following componentss
(a)     rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of about 80
subprojects covering a gross area of about 600,000 ha;
(b)     improved O&M of three existing major irrigation projects
covering a net irrigable area of about 60,000 ha, and seven
small flood control and drainage subprojects covering a
gross area of about 40,000 ha;
(C)     on-farm development works in two subprojects covering about
17,000 ha;
(d)     training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries, particularly for
O&M of the subprojects;
(e)     benchmark and evaluation studies of ten selected
subprojects; and
(f)     technical assistance for planning, design and monitoring of
construction of rehabilitation and improvement works, and
for planning and implementation of improved O&M, on-farm
development works, training, and benchmark and evaluation
studies.
D. Detailed Features
Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
2.05      General.  The project would rehabilitate and improve about 80
subprojects covering a gross area of about 600,000 ha and a cultivable area of
about 400,000 ha. The subprojects are located in all parts of the country,
except the South West region where the Asian Development Bank (ADB) finances a
similar program. Subprojects would have to meet selection criteria that
emphasize their technical, environmental and economic viability in order to
qualify for financing under the project. An assurance was obtained from GOB
during negotiations that BWDB would select subprojects according to the
criteria specified in Annex 1.
2.06      Civil Works.  The civil works program would include rehabilitation
and improvement works (para 1.22). Rehabilitation works (base cost US$15.1
million) would include (a) repair, resectioning and retirement of embankments,
(b) repair of hydraulic stru.tures, including replacement of gates, repair of
protection works, and full replacement of structures where required, (c) re-
excavation of drainage canals (khals) and repair of control structures located



- 13 -
at these canals, (d) repair of revetments at embankments and river banks, and
(e) repair of operational buildings. Improvement works (base cost US$22.3
million) would include (a) new embankments and regulators in newly accreted
lands adjacent to the subprojects, (b) compartmental bunds in polders for
effective control of flooding and drainage, (c) new regulators to drainl
isolated low pockets and excavation of the associated drainage canals, (d)
additional irrigation infrastructure such as flushing sluices and irrigation
inlets at flood embankments, turnouts to field canals, and earthworks and
structures in field canals, (e) extension of river bank revetment works, and
(f) protective measures such as forestation and planting of vetiver grass
cover at embankments. Most of the earthworks for excavation of drainage
canrls and resectioning of embankments would be executed under FFW.
2.07      The design of embankments and drainage canals would conform to BWDB
standards, i.e., a 20-year return period for the embankments and release of a
ten day rainfall runoff with a return period of five and ten years for period
not exceeding three and six days, respectively, for the canals.  In earlier
IDA-financed projects, it proved difficult to enforce adequate compaction of
earthfill embankments. In accordance with the arrangements adopted for the
Third Flood Control and Drainage Project (Cr. 1591-BD) and subsequent BWDB
projects financed by IDA, consultants would monitor all construction works,
particularly compaction of embankments, to ensure quality. All contracts
would specify separate rates for (a) transporting earth from the borrow area,
placing it in layers of 15 cm (including stripping of topsoil in the
embankment base and borrow area), and turfing the embankment slopes, and (b)
breaking clods, levelling, watering if zeeded, and compacting manually.
Withdrawal applications for earthworks would be certified by BWDB confirming
that compaction was done to the specifications described in the contract
document.
2.08      Land Acquisition (base cost US$2.0 million).  About 550 ha of land
would be required, mainly for retirement of embankments in subprojects located
in the coastal belt, or bordering on major rivers where bank erosion occurs.
Land costs vary from TK 80,000 per ha in the mainland area to about Tk 250,000
per ha in some coastal polders in the South East region. Land acquisition has
been a major obstacle to the timely implementation of earlier BWDB projects
because of the lengthy administrative process and insufficient or delayed
funding by GOB. In order to avoid delays in the start-up of the project, the
first year's program would not include works requiring the acquisition of
land. With regard to land requirements for subsequent years, assurances were
obtained from GOB during negotiations that (a) processing of land acquisition
applications would start at least twelve months, (b) funds would be allocated
at least six months, and (c) BWDB would obtain possession of the land at least
one month, before construction would commence.
2.09      Maintenance of Rehabilitation and Improvement Works (Base Cost
US$10.0 million). The project would provide for maintenance of all
rehabilitation and improvement works in the subprojects starting one year
after completion of the works, i.e., when the contractor's maintenance
obligations expire. Improved maintenance procedures, as described in para
2.10 and Annex 3, would gradually be adopted in all subprojects after
completion of the rehabilitation and improvement works. The annual
maintenance cost of the completed works, on a per ha basis, would depend on
the type of subproject (flood control, drainage or irrigation) and on the



- 14 _
proportion of the subproject's facilities requiring rehabilitecion and
improvement works. The average cost is estimated at about Tk 225 (US$7) per
ha. The works would be maintained under the project for an average period of
about two years, depending on when works are completed. GOB would assume full
responsibility for providing sufficient funds to cover O&M for all subprojects
at the end of the project period. Given the persistent shortfall in O&M
funding for BVDB's projects in past years (para 1.16 and Annex 6) an
assurance was obtained from GOB during negotiations that al'ocations for
maintenance works, electricity and fuel costs in BWDB's existing Projects not
financed under the Annual Development Program would be increased by at least
1O per year in real terms from the FY89 level of TK 210 million (about US$6.5
million) until such time that all requirements are fully financed.
Improved Operation and Maintenance (Base Cost US$13.3 million)
2.10      The project would support an improved O&M program for the Karnafuli,
Muhuri and Chandpur Irrigation projects (KIP, MIP and CIP, respectively) and
seven flood control and drainage (FCD) schemes in the Nawabganj Subdivision
under BWDB's Rajshahi O&M Division. The selected projects are at present in
good physical condition and do not require rehabilitation works but current
levels of maintenance are inadequate. Therefore, to avoid deterioration and
the need for future rehabilitation, and to reduce overall maintenance costs, a
preventive and periodic maintenance program would be introduced. Preventive
maintenance would be done throughout the year and would include minor repairs
of structures, embankments and canals, including removal of water hyacinth.
Periodic maintenance works such as resectioning of embankments, re-excavation
of canals, and major repairs or replacements of structures, would follow
specific maintenance cycles, as appropriate. Earthworks Maintenance Groups
(1HG) and Structure Maintenance Groups (SMG), cno;isting of landless men and
women. would be organized to undertake the preventive maintenance program.
During recent years, maintenance work through such groups has successfully
been undertaken by the Local Government Engineering Bureau (LGEB) and other
agencies. The quality of work has proven to be better than that of
contractors, and laborers' incomes have increased considerably. Procurement
of periodic maintenance works would follow existing BWDB procedures.
Preventive maintenance and periodic structure maintenance would be undertaken
against cash payments. In CIP, preventive maintenance of earthworks would be
done under FFW on a trial basis. Special measures would be taken to ensure
that fixed minimum wages are paid to the laborers, as this practice has been
successfull since it was first applied in the Delta Development Project in
Khulna District in 1983.
2.11      Water management surveys would be undertaken in the selected
projects during the first project year to provide recommendations for
improving operations, both at the main systems and at farm level. Based on
the results of the surveys, annual iperational plans would be formulated for
the projects. These plans would emphasize improved drainage and water
distribution to ensure a dependable supply at the LLP stations and gravity
inlets. In KIP, special attention would be given to the need to use LLPs in
the area upstream of the relift pumping station. In MIP, improving the
operation of the Feni regulator would reduce the risk of downstream erosior.
and therefore the cost of maintenance. In CIP, the effectiveness of drainage
pumping would be given special attention as well as the efficiency of water
distribution in the gravity irrigated areas. In the FCD schemes under the



- 15 -
?awabganj Subdivision, the operation of sluice gates would be optimized.
2.12      Improved maintenance would be introduced during the first project
year in about 252 of the area of all selected projects. Improved operational
procedures would be adopted after completion of the operational plans. The
projects would be fully covered by the end of project year four. Improved O&M
would also be introduced from the second project year in the two subprojects
included in the on-farm development program (para 2.13).  Thereafter, the
improved system would be expanded to cover subprojects where rehabilitation
and improvement works would have been completed and the one-year maintenance
period by contractors would have expired (para 2.09). In project year four,
improved O&M would be introduced in six completed subprojects. About twenty,
ten and five subprojects would be added during project years five, six and
seven, respectively. BWDB's headquarters organization for O&M would be
strengthened to direct the design, implementation, and monitoring of long term
O&M plans for all subprojects (Chapter III). An assurance was obtained from
GOB during negotiations that improved O&M procedures would be adopted in all
operation and maintenance divisions of B3WDB in accordance with a schedule to
be submitted for review and comment to IDA by June 30, 1994. Further details
on the improved O&N program are given in Annex 2.
On-farm Development (Base Cost US$0.9 million)
2.13      The project would support an on-farm development program for the
Polder 5511 and Buri Teesta Irrigation subprojects covering a gross area of
about 17,000 ha. Rehabilitation of the main systems of the two suhprojects
would be undertaken over the first two project years and improved O&M would be
introduced from the second project year. Polder 55/1 has a large but unused
irrigatior. potential and is representative for an extensive area in the
Greater Faridpur and Patuakhali districts. The Buri Teesta Irrigation
subproject was constructed as a pilot scheme for the Teesta Irrigation Project
(500,000 ha), now under implementation, but has not yielded proper directions
for command area development and OWM. Maintenance programs, as described in
para 2.10, would be introduced in both subprojects. However, emphasis would
be placed on improved water management through increased farmer participation.
2.14      In 1-older 55/1, additional irrigation inlets would be constructed
only after Inlet Committees have been formed and beneficiaries have agreed to
make land available and to undertake all earthworks for the inlets and field
channels free of charge. Progress of this activity therefore is hard to
predict. Committees would also be formed or reactivated to manage the
existing inlets. Irrigation distribution channels would be constructed
g:zdually over a period of four years. An experimental/ demonstration program
would be undertaken which would include construction of various types of lined
and unlined field channels and buried pipe systems. Organizers/extension
workers would help form and support the Inlet Committees and would give advise
to the farmers on irrigation water management and improved cropping practices.
Water management would be improved by excavating channels for drainage and
irrigation. Drainage sluices would be supplied with sliding gates at the
country side to regulate internal water levels and Sluice Committees would be
formed to mar.age operation of the sluices. For each three to four sluices, a
sluice khalasi would be appointed. Landless cooperatives would be motivateu
to enter the water market and purchase LLPs through the Non-Government
Organization (NGO) working in the area. Credit would be sought from the



- 16 -
ongoing Dutch NGO support program or from other available sources.
2.15      In the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject, a number of studies and
pilot activities would be undertaken to assess and improve the reliability of
water supply. Conveyance losses in the canal systems would be measured and
the need for lining examined. A water distribution program would be defined.
Ways to improve water management at farm level would be studied. A number of
alternative tertiary systems, lined and unlined, would be constructed in a
pilot area and their economic and social implications studied. New field
inlets would be constructed gradually, according to the results of the
experiments. Construction would start only after Inlet Committees have been
formed. Lined field channels would be constructed on request of Inlet
Committees only after they have agreed to donate tho land required and supply
free labor for earthworks and transporting of materials. Masons would be
provided by the project to assist the beneficiaries during construction.
Organizers/ extension workers would help form and guide Inlet Committees and
would have a supporting task in irrigation water management and agricultural
extension as well. The feasibility of dry season groundwater irrigation would
be studied and recommendations made to integrate STWs in the gravity
irrigation system. In both subprojects, agricultural extension activities
would be supported by farm demonstration plots.
2.16      The program of activities for the two subprojects would be phased as
indicated below. A broad-based baseline survey would be undertaken during the
first year to study the constraints for development and to establish a basis
for monitoring the impact of the project actions. Rehabilitation cc the main
system would be completed during the first two project years. The placement,
repair, and modification of irrigation inlets and the construction of field
channels would be undertaken during project years two through five. EMGs and
SMGs would be formed during the second project year. Inlet Committees would
be formed or re-activated during the first four project years. The
agricultural extension activities, the baseline survey, the experiments with
field distribution systems, and water management data collection would start
during the first project year. Recommendations on the introduction of STWs in
the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject would be formulated within one year from
the start of the the project. O&H and extension activities under the on-farm
development component would continue up to year six. In project years four
and seven surveys would be undertaken to evaluate the results. Further
details are given in Annex 3.
Training and Staff Development (Base Cost US$2.7 million)
2.17      In the area of training and staff development, the project would (a)
rrovide training to upgrade the capacity of BWDB staff nd beneficiaries, (b)
strengthen personnel planning and staff development at BWDB, and (c)
strengthen BWDB's organization for training and staff development. Training
courses would be developed by consultants. Qualified trainers have been
identified among the teaching staff of universities and senior staff of BWDB.
Training materials would be adapted from relevant other projects, as far as
possible, and from overseas, if appropriate. Courses would be conducted for
about 150 engineers, 1,000 lower level staff, 900 khalasis and 2,500
repesentatives of the beneficiaries. Training for O&M would be emphasized in
the courses, especially construction quality standards and tools and materials
for the maintenance groups. Where possible, the courses would be followed by



- 17 -
annual workshops.   The project would also provide for the rehabilitation and
expansion of the Hydrological Training Institute at Bhagyakul to expand its
capacity from 25 to 50 trainees. Two mobile training vans would be provided
for skill and awareness training of maintenanc.e groups in the subprojects to
be covered by the improved O&M program.
2.18      The project would also provide expertise to develop systematic
procedures for the planning and allocation of BWDB staff resources according
to workloads, particularly for O&M. Job descriptions and work standards would
be developed for all staff positions. These, together with the annual work
programs of the divisions, would be used as a basis for drawing up staffing
plans, taking into account current staff posted in the division, their
qualifications and experience, and the possibilities of transfer,
reassignment, and retrenchment. Priority for the development of staffing
plans during the first project year would be given to the projects to be
covered by the improved O&M program and which are currently overstaffed (paras
2.10 and 3.06). In subsequent years, staffing plans would be prepared for
BWDB's other field units and its headquarters. These plans would then be
consolidated into comprehensive staff recruitment and development plans.
Computer-based data management and planning programs would be provided to
develop a staff data base. This data base would be used to analyze the impact
of various staffing patterns on recruitment, training, promotion, and other
staff development operations. Studies regarding the nature of employment
contracts and conditions, retrenchment, and st.ff mobility would be undertaken
in order to clarify issues and propose solutions to EWDB management. In order
to adequately undertake the tasks outlined abr,ve, BWDB's headquarters
organization for training and staff development would be strengthened (Chapter
III). Further details on training and staff dev,3lopment are given in Annex 4.
Benchmark and Evaluation Studies (Base Cost US$0.6 million)
2.19      Benchmark and evaluation studies would be undertaken in Buri Teesta
Irrigation, Polders 64/1A, 64/1B and 55/1, Pagner Haor Boro Protection, Sangu
River Bank Protection, CIP, MIP, KIP and one of the seven small FCD schemes in
Nawabganj O&M Subdivision. These subprojects cover the whole spectrum of
project activities. The first six subprojects would be rehabilitated and
improved. Programs for improved O&M would be taken up in CIP, HIP and KIP and
in Nawabganj O&M Subdivision, and on-farm development works would be
implemented in Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject and Polder 55/1. The studies
would covet the engineering, agricultural and socio-economic aspects with a
view of assessing the project's impact and drawing lessons during project
implementation and for similar future operations. The base line survey would
be completed during the first project year, and two impact assessment studies
would be undertaken during the fourth and seventh project years, respectively.
Further details are given in Annex 5.
Technical Assistance (Base Cost US$10.9 million)
2.20      A substantial amount of technical assistance is required to ensure
effective implementation of the project and achievement of its objectives.
The European Economic Community (EC) and the Government of the Netherlands
(GON) would employ firms of consultants to assist B1DB in Implementing the
project. Expertise would be provided to cover technical aspects such as
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of infrastructure,



- 18 -
and non-technical aspects including agriculture, economics, rural sociology,
environment, personnel management, training, and monitoring and evaluation.
Requirements have been estimated at 493 man-months of internationally
recruited and 1,610 man-months of locally recruited specialists. Preference
would be given to proposals with higher proportions of locally recruited
specialists. Further details on requicements and responsibilities of the
consultants are given in Annex 5. An assurance was obtained from GOB during
negotiations that all consultants would be appointed by July 31, 1990 under
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
Table 2.1s Summary of Consulting Requirements
(Man-months)
Financing
Project Component                     International    Local   Agency
(A) Rehabilitation and Improvement Works:
(i) Feasibility studies and detailed
engineering                           115           300        EC
(ii) Monitoring and quality control           68           200        GON
(B) Improved Operation and Maintenancet
(i) O&M Directorate at BWDB headquarters     84            -         CON
(ii) KIP, HIP, CIP and Nawabganj Sub-
division                                 87           396        GON
(C) On-farm Development                          83           276        GON
sD) Training and Staff Development               44           150        EC
(E) Benchmark and Evaluation Studies             12           288        GON
493        1,610
Vehicles and Equipment (Base Cost US$0.9 million)
2.21    The project would provide, amongst others, 41 vehicles, 16 speedboats
with engines, 73 motorcycles, and 140 bicycles (Annex 8, Table 17).
Construction equipment such as concrete mixers and vibrators, would be
provided by the contractors.
E. Status of Preparation and Impl6mentation Schedule
2.22    Preparation.  Feasibility studies and detailed engineering documents
for rehabilitation and improvement works are available for 21 subprojects.
Sixteen subprojects have been retained for implementation while five
subprojects have been deleted for various reasons. The engineering documents
for the 16 subprojects were completed on the basis of surveys and
investigations conducted in 1986-87. These documents would be updated by
consultants to take into account works that have been carried out since 1987,
particularly after the floods of 1987 and 1988. The consaltants would be
recruited by EC and their work would be completed by October 1990.
Feasibility studies and detailed engineering document3 for about 65



- 19 -
subprojects would be prepared by consultants during the first four project
years. Outline programs for improved O&M, on-farm development and training
have been prepared. Detailed guidelines for the terms of reference of all
consultants, who would help direct these operations, also have been prepared
(Annex 5).
2.23    Implementation Schedule (Annex 7).  The total project implementation
period would be seven years (FY91-97). Rehabilitatioa and improvement of a
first group of 14 subprojects would start in the first project year and two
subprojects would start in the second year. Works would be completed within
three years, except for six subprojects which require further investigations
to determine effective bank protection works or organization of beneficiaries
for on-farm development works (para 2.15). These subprojects are expected to
be completed within five years. The 63 additional subprojects would be taken
up in batches of about 15-20 each after completion of the feasibili.y and
engineering documentation. All works would be completed within the project
period. Maintenance of completed subprojects would be taken up gradually as
rehabilitation works are completed, and continue until the end of the project
period. The improved O&M program would be implemented over six years (FY91-
96). During the first project year, BWDB assisted by consultants, would
prepare a detailed plan of operations for each of the subprojects to be
covered by the improved O&M program. The on-farm development program would
commence in the second project year (FY92) and would continue for a period of
five years. The training and staff development program would be implemented
over seven years (FY91-97).
F. Environmental Aspects
2.24    As most physical works consist of rehabilitation and improvement of
existing structures, embankments, and irrigation and drainage canals, the
project would improve the environmental conditions by providing added security
against flood damage, better access to properties, better drainage of areas
with excess moisture (an important public health benefit), and, for irrigation
subprojects, improved groundwater replenishment. Deepening of drainage canals
would provide for year round increased water depths in those canals and have a
positive impact on fisheries and water transportation. Some of the flood
control projects constructed earlier, were located in deeply flooded areas and
had a negative effect on the potential for fishing in the flood plains. The
present project would be free of such effects because the selected subprojects
are located, either in the coastal areas which have no flood plains, or in the
shallow to medium flooded inland areas where pre-project water body conditions
would be maintained. Migration of fish to these water bodies would continue
to be possible through effective operation of the sluices. All potential
adverse effects of the rehabilitation and improvement works wouid be assessed
during the feasibility studies to be carried out for all subprojects and
provisions would be made to remedy these effects, where necessary.
G. Project Cost
2.25    The total project cost is estimated at Tk 3,762 million (US$111.0
million), with a foreign exchange component of US$12.5 million or 11Z of the
total costs (Table 2.2). The estimates for rehabilitation and improvement
works are based on actual 1989 contract prices and the updated schedule of
rates of BWDB. Estimates of quantities are taken from the detailed



- 20 -
engineering documents for the 16 prepared subprojects. Investment costs are
expected to vary depending on the type of subproject (flood control, drainage,
irrigation) and the proportion of facilities requiring rehabilitation and
improvement. The cost of the 65 unprepared projects has been extrapolated on
a per hectare basis from the 16 prepared subprojects. The estimates for
improved O&M and on-farm development are based on a detailed analysis by BWDB
and consultants of the selected projects.
2.26    The project cost includes US$2.2 million in taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 1OZ of base cost of all works, goods
and services, except staff cost of BWDB. Price contingencies and foreign
exchange rates are estimated on the basis of expected rates of local and
foreign inflation as follows: local price contingencies: 102 for FY91, 8Z for
FY92 and 71 thereafter, and foreign price contingencies 7.2Z in PY91 and 4.42
thereafter.



- 21 -
Table 2.2: Project Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  Fore.gn  Total  Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
---------Tk m    ----  --------US$ m---------       2
A. Rehabilitation and
Improvement Works:
Land Acquisition         62.7      -      62.7    2.0    -        2.0         0
Surveys and Investi-
gations                 3.9     -        3.9    0.1    -        0.1         0
Civil Works - Rehabi-
lation                400.0   86.7    486.7   12.4   2.7       15.1        18
Civil Works - Im-
provements            721.5     -      721.5   22.3    -       22.3         0
Engineering and Ad-
ministration          142.1      -     142.1    4.4    -        4.4         0
Maintenance during
Construction          322.9     -      322.9   10.0    -       10.0         0
Sub-total          1,653.1   86.7  1,739.8   51.2   2.7       53.9
B. Improved Operation
and Maintenance        428.7    1.7    430.4   13.2   0.1       13.3         1
C. On-farm Development      27.7      -      27.7    0.9    -        0.9         0
D. Training and Staff
Development             68.3   19.1      87.4    2.1   0.6       2.7        22
E. Technical Assistance   159.6  193.9    353.5    4.9   6.0        10.9        55
F. Equipment and
Vehicles                12.6   15.5      28.1    0.4   0.5       0.9        55
Base Costs           2,350.0  316.9  2,666.9   72.7   9.9       82.6        12
Physical Contin-
gencies               223.8   31.7    255.5    6.9   1.1        8.0        13
Price Contingencies   778.2   61.6    839.8   18.9   1.5        20.4         8
Total Costs       3,352.0  410.2  3,762.2   98.5  12.5    111.0         11
===== _mi                    - _            -          -
H. Proiect Financing
2.27     The project would be financed by IDA, EC, GON and GOB.  The IDA
Credit of SDR 40.8 million (US$53.9 million equivalent) would cover about 502
of the total project cost, excluding taxes and duties. IDA would finance
investment cost for rehabilitation and improvement works and a declining
portion of BWDB's incremental O&M costs.  An EC grant of ECU 13.5 million
(US$14.9 million equivalent) would cover about 13.52 of project cost,



- 22 -
excluding taxes and duties. EC would finance over four years (MY91-94) (a)
rehabilitation and improvement of five subprojects, (b) technical assistance
for feasibility studies and designs of about 65 subprojects, (c) preventive
and periodic maintenance in the projects included in the improved O&M and on-
farm development programs, (d) training and staff development, and (e)
procurement of equipment and vehicles for use in the rehabilitation and
training programs. A grant of Dfl 25.23 million (US$12.6 million equivalent)
by GON would cover about ll.5Z of total project cost, net of taxes and duties.
GON would finance (a) technical assistance for improved OEM, on-farm
development, monitoring and quality control of rehabilitation and improvement
works, bench mark and evaluation studies, and preparation of the project
completion report, (b) a declining portion of preventive and periodic
maintenance for the improved O&M program from the fifth project year, and (c)
vehicles required for the improved OEM and on-farm development programs.
Signing of the cofinancing agreements between GOB and IC and GON,
respectively, would be a condition of effectiveness for the IDA Credit. GOB
would finance the remaining project cost, i.e., US$29.6 million. This
includes about US$20.6 million equivalent to be contributed by WFP in -the form
of foodgrains for earthworks for (a) rehabilitation and improvement works, (b)
periodic maintenance works, and (c) preventive maintenance works on a trial
basis in CIP. The balance of GOB's contribution, US$9.0 million, including
US$2.2 million taxes and duties, would be made available through annual budget
appropriations in conformance with the project implementation schedule.
Approval of the Project Proforma would be a condition of effectiveness for the
IDA Credit. Table 2.3 summarizes the project financing plan by component.
Further details are given in Annex 9.
Table 2.3: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA     EC      GON    GOB    Total
Land Acquisition                            -       -        -     2.5     2.5
Surveys and Investigations                 0.2      -        -      -      0.2
Civil Works                               36.5     4.3       -     9.7    50.5
Engineering and Administration             5.1      -        -     0.5     5.6
Maintenance during Construction            5.9     0.2       -     8.9    15.0
Improved Operation and Maintenance         5.0     3.6      1.6    7.4    17.6
On-farm Development                        0.8      -        -     0.2     1.0
Training                                   0.4     2.9       -      -      3.3
Technical Assistance                        -      3.5    10.7      -     14.2
Equipment and Vehicles                      -      0.4      0.3    0.4     1.1
Total Financing Required               53.9    14.9    12.6   29.6   111.0
I. Procurement
2.28     Civil Works (US$42.4 million, excluding taxes and duties).  Except
for a few major works involving river bank protection, mattressing of
embankment slopes and regulators, civil works would not be suitable for
international bidders. Most works are relatively small, labor-intensive, and
geographically dispersed in areas with difficult access. The works would
therefore be carried out under contracts let through standard local



- 23 -
competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to IDA. Contracts for
earthworks would be awarded in reaches of at least 1,000 meters; structures
would be awarded under separate contracts. GOB has discontinued the practice
of awarding contracts for structures and allowing B3DB to supply construction
materials and equipment to the contractors. An exception to this arrangement
is the fabrication of gates and lifting equipment. This work may be executed
on force account by BVDB's mechanical unit, or awarded separately under LCB
procedures. Force account work for the fabrication of gates and lifting
equipment would be limited to US$10,000 for each structure, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.5 million. International competitive bidding (ICB) would be
used for major civil works (costing over US$500,000), including long stretches
of embankment and protection works on slopes and riverbeds which need to be
completed within one construction period, and major regulators (14 gates and
above). Bid documents for large regulators awarded under LCB procedures and
major works awarded under ICB procedures would be issued only to prequalified
bidders. Where bidders for works are prequalified, such prequalification
would be made in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
2.29     For civil works contracts estimated to cost more than US$150,000, bid
documents would be submltted to IDA for prior revipv, ar,d IDA's concurrence
would be obtained before contracts are awarded.   This procedure would apply
to about 3Z of expected contracts valued at about 40Z of the estimated total
cost of civil works. For contracts estimated to cost US$150,000 or less, bid
documents and evaluations would be retained by BVLB and made available to IDA
representatives upon request. Force account work in respect of earthworks
would be restricted to amounts under US$10,000 for each case up to an
aggregate of US$500,000.
2.30     Earthworks valued at US$20.6 million, mainly for resectioning of
embankments and re-excavation of drainage canals, would be executed under FFW
according to procedures agreed between GOB and WP. Procurement procedures
for rehabilitation and improvement works in the subprojects to be financed by
EC would be the same as for IDA-financed subprojects.
2.31     Maintenance works during construction, improved O& works, and on-
farm development works would be let under small contracts following LCB
procedures. Surveys and investigations would be undertaken by BWDB on force
account or under coutract through LCB. Bidders for survey works would be
prequalified in accordance with GOB procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
The methods of procurement for all project components are spelled out in Table
2.4.



- 24 -
Table 2.4: Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ million)
Force
ICB      LCB    Account    Other        Total
Land Acquisition                      -        -        -         2.5         2.5
Surveys and Investigations            -       0.1      0.1         -          0.2
(0.1)   (0.1)                  (0.2)
Civil Works                          3.0     31.5      2.0        7.0        43.5
(3.0)   (31.5)   (2.0)                  (36.5)
Earthworks on FFW bI                  -        -        -        20.6        20.6
Engineering and Administration        -        -        -         5.6         5.6
(5.1)      (5.1)
M4aintenance during Construction      -       5.7      0.2        1.6         7.5
(5.7)   (0.2)                  (5.9)
Improved Operation and Main-
tenance Works                       -       5.0      -          6.5        11.5
(5.0)                          (5.0)
On-farm Development Works             -        -        -         1.0         1.0
(0.8)      (0.8)
Training and Staff Development        -        -        -         3.3         3.3
(0.4)      (0.4)
Technical Assistance                  -        -        -        14.2        14.2
Equipment and Vehicles                -        -        -         1.1         1.1
Total                                3.0     42.3      2.3       63.4       111.0
(3.0)   (42.3)   (2.3)       (6.3)      (53.9)
a/  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
b/ Value of foodgrains allocated by WFP and included in the financing plan as
GOB's contribution.
J. Disbursements
2.32     Disbursements of the IDA Credit would extend over the period 1991-97
and would cover:
(a) 952 of expenditures on civil works, including construction materials;
(b) 10O2 of expenditures on surveys and investigations;
(c) 10OZ of BWDB's expenditures on engineering and administration at the
rate of 12Z of expenditures for civil works contracts, including



- 25 -
construction materials and earthworks undertaken with FFW under the
project;
(d)   1001 of expenditures for O&M of rehabilitated subprojects, and for the
subprojects included in the improved OEM and on-farm development
programs, until FY95; 801 of these expenditures in FY96; and 502
thereafter; and
(e) 1002 of foreign and local expenditures for training and staff
development.
2.33     Full documentazion would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, except for items (c) and (d) above, for works executed under
force account, and for small civil works contracts individually costing less
than the equivalent of US$150,000. For these items ipplications would be
supported by statements of expenditure certified FJy .he Drector and the
Accc ntant of the Rehabilitation Directorate or OEM Directorate. The relevant
documentation would be retained by BWDB at a central location and should be
made available for review by IDA representatives on request. This
documentation also would be subject to audit. Supporting documentation for
withdrawal applications for earthworks would be certified by BWDB's Executive
Engineer confirming that compaction was done to the specifications described
in the contract document. All documents sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, including statements of expenditures, would have been checked
and certified by the project consultants.
2.34     The disbursement schedule (Annex 9) reflects the anticipated sequence
of activities in implementation and has been based on the assumption that
disbursements for works done in one quarter would be completed within the next
two quarters. The disbursement profile for water development projects has
been nine years. However, in view of the simple nature of the rehabilitation
and improvement works, the advanced status of the detailed engineering
documentation and the minimal requirement of land for construction purposes, a
seven-year implementation period for the project is considered feasible.
2.35     Most of the project works would be carried out by a large number of
small contractors whose construction capability depends heavily upon the speed
at which they receive progress payments. To facilitate payments, ensure the
availability of funds, and reduce the number of withdrawal applications
submitted to IDA, GOB would open and thereafter maintain a special account in
U.S. dollars with the Bangladesh Bank in Dhaka. The authorized allocation for
the special account would be US$4.0 million equivalent. This allocation
represents an estimated four months of IDA-financed expenditures. The special
account would be replenished through reimbursements on a monthly basis and
would be used exclusively for IDA's share of financing.
K. Accounts and Audits
2.36     BWDB would maintain adequate records to identify physical progress
and financial transactions relating to the project. Individually identifiable
accounts would be kept for all expenditures for which credit withdrawals are
made on the basis of statements of expenditures (para 2.33). A separate
project account would be kept by BWDB. Auditors acceptable to IDA would audit
these accounts and statements of expenditures, where applicable. Audited



- 26 -
accounts, together with auditors' comments, would be sent to IDA within nine
months of the close uf the fiscal year. At present, BWDB's accounts are
audited by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of Bangladesh and by BWDB's
Internal Directorate of Audits. These arrangements are satisfactory to IDA.
!



- 27 -
III. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
BWDB Headquarters Organization for Rehabilitation, Operation and Haintenance 1
3.01      In accordance vith the Action Plan to strengthen BWDB (para 1.21), a
technical unit would be established at BWDB headquarters to improve planning,
budgeting, and implementation of O&M activities. The unit would be headed by
a Chief Engineer for O&M who would be appointed to serve under the Board
Member for O&M. The unit would be composed of an O&M Directorate and a
Rehabilitation Directorate, and would carry out the folowing broad future
functions:
(a) review and consolidate the annual budget requests prepared by
the fi .d divisions which cover operation, maintenance, and
rehab .itation under different budget heads (Revenue, FFW, and
ADP) and establish priorities under budget constraints;
(b) develop long-term (five year) rolling budget requirements for
O&M covering all operational and soon-to-be completed BWDB
projects;
*c) guide the field divisions in preparing and updating O&M manuals
and prepare instructions for the operation of projects;
.d) participate in scheduled maintenance reviews and monitor the
progress of maintenance and rehabilitation works;
Ce) assist O&M field staff in solving new and difficult problems
pertaining to operation, maintenance and rehabilitation; and
(f) assist the Training Directorate (para 3.14) in preparing and
executing O&M training programs;
The unit would manage the planning and implementation of the project and
gradually assume the functions outlined above for all operational BWDB
projects. Issue of Board Orders by BWDB designating the Chief Engineer for
O&M and the Directors of O&M and Rehabilitation would be conditions of
effectiveness for the IDA Credit.
3.02      Rehabilitation Directorate.   The Rehabilitation Directorate would
be responsible for planning, designing, and monitoring of construction of all
rehabilitation and improvement works. The Directorate would be assisted by
twn teams of consultants. The first team, to be appointed by EC, would
prepare screening reports, feasibility studies, engineering documents, and O&M
plans for about 65 subprojects. Six-party meetings of representatives of MOI,
BWDB, IDA, EC, GON and WFP would be held in September and May of each year to
1 It is anticipated that institutions dealing with flood control will be
restructured under the Action Plan for Flood Control. However, the
institutional changes proposed under the present project would be
required under any restructuring plan.



- 28 -
review progress of the consultants' work. The Chief Engineer for O&H would
approve the final feasibility studies and the Director of Rehabilitction would
approve the final designs.
3.03      The second team of consultants, to be appointed by GON, would
monitor the progress and quality of rehabilitation and improvement works in
the field, check and certify applications for reimbursement to be submitted to
the donors, prepare completion reports for all subprojects, and monitor O&M of
completed works during the project period. Field staff of the consultants
would be based in four zonal offices. The consultants would develop and
operate a management information system in the office of the Director of
Rehabilitation and in the zonal offices and prepare monthly and quarterly
progress reports. In addition to information on construction progress, the
system would collect and process data on potential problems, such as land
acquisition, performance by the contractors, and issues of reimbursement. The
Director of Rehabilitation would bring persistent problems and proposed
solutions to the attention of the six-party meeting, referred to above, for
discussion and advise.
3.04      The Directorate of Rehabilitation would prepare annual work programs
and budgets for rehabilitation and improvement works, process all
reimbursement applications, guide the consultants in their work and liaise
closely with other GOB entities concerned, both inside and outside BWDB,
including local government agencies. In addition to the Director, the
Rehabilitation Directorate would be staffed with two Executive Engineers, six
Assistant Engineers, and support personnel.
3.05      Operation and Maintenance Directorate.  The OWM Directorate would be
responsible for planning, budgeting, and implementing the improved O&M and on-
farm development programs and for coordinating the project's training
activities undertaken by the Training Directorate. The O&H Directorate also
would gradually assume responsibility for the functions referred to in para
3.01 for all operational proJects. The Directorate would be assisted by a
team of consultants to be appointed by GON. This team would be headed by a
senior O&M specialist based in Dhaka, who would act as an advisor to the
Director. Other members of the team would be based in the field (para 3.10).
Assisted by the senior O&M specialist, the Directorate would (a) prepare
annual work programs and budgets for all project components, except
rehabilitation and improvement works, and monitor implementation, (b) advise
and hold regular meetings with the various field teams carrying out the
improved O&M programs, on-farm development works, benchmark and evaluation
studies, and training programs, (c) coordinate the O&M program for the entire
project, including the rehabilitated subprojects, and set up a computerized
data base to monitor preventive and periodic maintenance, (d) organize
workshops and other training related activities with the Training Directorate,
and (e) prepare and submit applications for reimbursement by the donors. The
consultant would prepare monthly and quarterly progress reports. The six
parties, referred to in para 3.01, would review the work plans, budgets, and
progress reports during their scheduled meetings.
3.06      The O&H Directorate, assisted by its consultants, also would prepare
a long-term OWM plan and an initial detailed annual O&M plan and budget for
each BWDB field division and/or project. The preparation of these plans would
start in the first project year for the projects to be covered by the improved



- 29 -
O&M program. The long-term O&M plans would, amongst others, specify all
preventive and periodic mair.tenance requirements and the staff resources
needed to efficiently operate and maintain the projects. The budgets would be
comprehensive, covering all necessary works and expenditures currently
financed separately under the kevenue Budget, FFW, and any additional funding
sources. The analysis of the four schemes carried out during project
preparation indicates that several units are currently overstaffed. The
recent transfer of LLPs to the farmers in CIP, MIP and KIP has led to a
further reduction of staff requirements. Therefore, a cr'tical review of
staff requirements in these schemes is called for in order to contain BWDB's
expenditures for O&M. Submission of a firm staffing plan, together with
proposals to transfer, retrain or retire all surplus staff currently posted in
CIP, MIP, KIP, and Nawabgani O&M Subdivision, would be a condition of
disbursement by IDA against e=penditures for operation and maintenance of all
subprojects.
3.07      During the second and subsequent project years, the O&M Directorate
would continue to prepare long-term and initial annual O0W plans and budgets.
These documenta first would cover the Buri Teesta Irrigation and Polder 5511
subprojects included in the on-farm development program; thereafter they would
cover all subprojects to be rehabilitated and improved under the project, as
well as the remaining BWDB projects and/or divisions. The second and
subsequent annual O&M plans and budgets would be prepared by the field
divisions themselves under the guidance of the O&M Directorate. From the
second project year onward, the Directorate also would prepare aggregate
annual O&M buxdgets for all BWDB projects and divisions. The accuracy of the
overall estimates would improve over time as detailed OWM plans and budgets,
referred to above, would become available for a greater number of projects and
divisions. The O&M Cost Cell, now being established under the Second Small
Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project (Credit 1870-BDI, would
be located in the O&M Directorate and would serve as a data base for the
preparation of O&M budgets. Assurances were obtained from GOB during
negotiations that (a) draft annual O&M programs and budgets for all
subproiects to be financed by IDA would be submitted for review and coment by
November 30,1990 for the first project year and by March 31 of each following
year, (b) finalized annual work proarams and budgets for the entire proiect
would be submitted to IDA for review by December 31,1990 for the first project
year and by July 31 of each following year, and (c) draft aggregate O&H
budgets for all operation and maintenance divisions of BWDB would be submitted
to IDA for review and comment by March 31 of each year, starting in 1992.
3.08      The O&M Directorate initially would be staffed with one Director,
one Executive Engineer, two Assistant Engineers, one Systems Analyst and
support staff. The Directorate would work closely with other BWDB units,
particularly the Directorates for Rehabilitation, Land and Water Use, and
Training. The Directorate also would coordJnate its programs with other
agencies involved in the implementation of the project, particularly BRDB,
DAE, local government entities, and NGOs.
Field Organization
3.09      Rehabilitation.  BWDB's existing field divisions, headed by
Executive Engineers, would be responsible for (a) conducting engineering
surveys and geotechnical investigations, (b) preparing bills of quantities,



- 30 -
estimates, land acquisition plans, and tender documents, (c) calling tenders,
and td) issuing work orders for all rehabilitation and improvement works. The
Executive Engineers, through the Subdivisional Engineers and Section Officers,
also would be responsible for construction and O&M during project
implementation. The consultants regerred to in para 3.02, would monitor on-
site supervision of construction work by BWDB staff to ensure that the works
meet the design requirements and specifications of the contract agreements.
In coordination with the O&M Directorate, the consultants also would assist
BWDB staff in introducing improved O&M programs in the rehabilitated
sudprojects.
3.10      Operation and Maintenance.  BWDB's existing field divisions would
be responsible for implementing the improved O&M program starting in the first
project year in CIP, MIP, KIP and the FCD schemes under Nawabganj Subdivision.
BWDB's staff in these schemes would be adjusted according to the plan referred
to in para 3.07. BRDB would add about 20 village accountants and 100 village
inspectors to its field staff in CIP, MIP and KIP to strengthen the
organization of the village cooperatives. Through these cooperatives, BRDB
would help establish EMGs and SMGs to undertake the preventive maintenance
programs. The O&M organization in CIP, MIP and KIP would be supported full-
time during the first two project years by an internationally recruited water
management specialist, who would be based in Feni (MIP). A second
internationally recruited water management specialist would be based during
the first project year in Rajshahi to support the O&M organization for
Nawabganj Subdivision. During the entire implementation period, technical
support by locally recruited consultants and short-term internationally
recruited experts would be provided to the three irrigation projects and the
Nawabganj OM Subdivision.
3.11      On-farm Development.  BWDB's Nilphamari Water Development Division
would be responsible for implementing works in the Buri Teesta Irrigation
subproject. Staff of the division would be increased with the appointment of
one assistant irrigation engineer, one agronomist, and one socio-economist.
BRDB would intensify its activities in the subproject, emphasizing the
formation and strengthening of farmers and landless cooperatives. Its staff
at Jaldhaka Upazila would be increased by one assistant rural development
officer and three organizers to be seconded to BWDB's Nilphamari Division.
The division would be supported by a team of consultants comprising two
irrigation and drainage engineers (of which one recruited internationally for
one year), one agro-sociologist, one socio-economist, and 20
organizers/extension workers. The on-farm development program for Polder 55/1
subproject would be implemented by the Galachipa Subdivision of BWDB's
Patuakhali O&M Division. One assistant engineer, one agronomist and one
socio-economist would be added to its staff. The NGO Association for Social
Advancement (ASA) has been active in the subproject since 1987 and has helped
to organize about 50 landless cooperatives.  ASA would continue to expand its
activities and bupport the on-farm development program by (a) helping the
cooperatives register as D-Class contractors, (b) assisting the formation of
women committees, (c) identifying laborers to be included in the SMGs, and (d)
starting a program to purchase LLPs through its cooperatives. The Galachipa
Subdivision would be supported by a team of consultants with a similar
composition to that of the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject.



- 31 -
Subprolect Comittees
3.12      In order to encourage the active participation of beneficiaries in
all stages of project planning, construction and O&M and to ensure that local
government agencies are directly involved, a Subproject Committee would be
established before implementation of each subproject. The composition of the
Committee would be similar to that of committees successfully being set up
under the Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation Project
(Credit 1870-BD). The Committee would be headed by the Upazila Chairman, and
BEWDB's Executive or Subdivisional Engineer would be the Secretary. Members
would include other Upazila chairmen (when the subproject covers several
Upazilas), chairmen of the Union Parishads, the Upazila Nirbahi Officer, the
Upazila Engineer, Upazila-based officers of DAE, BADC, BRDB, and the
Directorate of Fisheries, representatives of active NGOs in the subproject
area and about seven representatives of the high-land, medium-land, and low-
land farmers, fishermen, boatmen, landless laborers and others. The Committee
would meet quarterly, or more frequently, as needed. An assurance was
obtained from GOB during negotiations that a Sub2roiect Committee, as
described above. would be established before implementation of each
subproject.
3.13      The main functions of the Subproject Committees would be tot
(a) disseminate information on planning, implementation, operation
and maintenance of the subproject and to seek beneficiaries'
reactions, consent and active participation;
(b) assist in the process of land acquisition as required by the
subprojects;
(c) oversee the establishment and functioning of agricultural
support services, including agricultural extension, supply of
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, provision of credit, etc.;
and
(d) undertake other actions in support of the subproject objectives
and resolve problems that arise during subproject implementation
and O&M.
BEWDB's Organization for Training and Staff Development
3.14      To strengthen BWDB's capacity for training and staff development, a
Director General of the rank of Chief Engineer, would be appointed to serve
under the Member for Administration. This person would direct the work of the
existing Directorates of Training, Career Development, Organization and
Methods, and Personnel, the Kaptai Engineering Academy, and the Hydrology and
Irrigation Extension Training Institutes. One Deputy Director would be
appointed each to Staff Development and Training Evaluation. Consultants to
be recruited by EC would assist the Director General with staff planning and
development operations and related studies. Technical assistance also would
be made available to assist with the design, implementation, and evaluation of
the O&M training program for BWDB staff and beneficiaries. The consultants
would work closely with the National Training Advisor, who is currently
employed under the Third Flood Control and Drainage Project (Credit 1591-BD).



- 32 -
Locally recruited consultants would be used to design and develop the O&M
training program during the first year of the project. They also would plan
and implement the program during the second and third project years. The
Training Directorate would be responsible for the ongoing training at Kaptai
and overseas, and for implementation of the project's O&M training program.
This program would provide primarily on-the-job training in the field or at
the Irrigation Extension Center, Baradi, or at the Hydrology Training
Institute, Bhagyakul. Issue of a Board Order by BWDB designating the Director
General for Training and Staff Development would be a condition of
effectiveness for the IDA Credit.



33 -
IV. PRODUCTION, MARETING, FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
A. Agricultural Production
General
4.01       The rehabilitation works to be undertaken under the project would
either restore agricultural production to the original levels where facilities
have become non-operational due to deterioration, or secure the present level
of production against potential losses should the deterioration be allowed to
continue. Improvement works to be carried out under the project wonld result
in additional benefits. Estimates of improved agricultural production due to
the rehabilitation and improvement works have been based on a detailed
analysis of a representative sample of five subprojects examined during the
appraisal. The sample includes the Buri Teesta and Polder 55/1 subprojects
where programs for improved O&M and on-farm development would be implemented
under the project. The results of the analysis have been extrapolated to the
entire project, which would cover about 80 subprojects.
4.02       The types of rehabilitation and improvement works and associated
benefits from the appraised subprojects are as followst
(a) rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in the Buri Teesta
Irrigation subpruject in the North West would increase
supplementary irrigation for the aman rice and enlarge the area
cultivated with boro rice and rabi crops during the dry season;
(b) rehabilitation of embankments, improvement of drainage channels in
the Pagner Haor Boro Protection subproject in the North East would
protect maturing boro rice and rabi crops against floods during
April/May;
(c) rehabilitation of embankments, re-excavation of drainage channels
and construction of more than 100 inlets in the Polder 55/1
subproject in the South Central region would (i) protect the area
against floods, (ii) increase the area cultivated with boro rice
and rabi crops, and (iii) supply supplementary irrigation for the
aman rice; and
(d) rehabilitation of embankments and drainage channels in Polders
64/1A and 64/1B subprojects in the South East would protect the aus
and aman rice against saline water intrusion and flooding.
Crop Yields and Production
4.03       The overall increase in production from the project is expected to
be generated mainly by increased cultivation of high yielding varieties and
increase of cropping intensities. Crop yields are expected to increase
moderately with the project. Based on the projections for the sample of



_ 34 -
appraised subprojects, the Increase in production at full development to the
project is estimated at about 400,000 m ton of paddy. About 402 of the
Incremental production is due to avoiding losses if deterioration of
facilities were allowed to continue and 602 represeuts a net increase over
present production levels due to improvement works. Table 4.1 summarizes
cropping intensities and the increase in production of rice, potatoes,
vegetables and other crops for the appraised subprojects. Details on crop
areas, yields, and production are given In Annex 11, Tables 1 - 5.



- 35 -
Table 4.1: Cropping Intensities and Crop Production of Appraised Subprojects
Subproject a/              I         II       III       IV        V        Total
Area, ha
Net Cultivable Area      6,070    17,170    7,800    4,600    5,670    41,310
Cultivated Area P bl   10,430    18,610    9,090    7,650   10,065    55,845
Cultivated Area W/O c/  9,387    16,749    7,272    6,120    8,052    47,580
Cultivated Area U di   12,110    19,460    9,709    8,420   10,360    60,059
Cropping Intensity, X
Average
P                  172       108       117      166       178       148
W/O                155        98        93      133       142       115
W                  200       113       124      183       183       161
Reduction Without Project   17          10       24        33       36         33
Increase With Project        28          5        7        17        5         13
Total Increment            45         15       31        50       41         46
Crop Production, m ton
Total
Rice           P         11,762    31,707   11,778   13,437   20,774    89,458
W/O      10,586    28,537    9,422   10,749   16,619    75,913
U        18,661    38,582   15,792   15,609   22,679   111,323
Potatoes       P          1,330      2,700      818       560      560      5,968
W/o       1,197      2,430      654       448       448     5,177
';        1,425      2,700      818       800    1,360      7,103
Vegetables      P         1,740      1,200      500    1,300          0     4,740
W/O       1,566      1,080      400    1,040          0     4,086
w         1,885      1,200      500       650         0     4,235
Other Crops e/ P          3,558      1,206      926       353       76      6,119
W/0       3,202      1,085       742      283        61     5,373
W         4,726      1,276      926       419      193      7,540
Total          P         18,390    36,813   14,022   15,650   21,410   106,285
W/O      16,551    33,132   11,218   12,520   17,128    90,549
W        26,697    43,758   18,036   17,478   24,232   130,201
Reduction Without
Project                 1,839      3,681    2,804    3,130    4,282    15,736
Increase With Project    8,307       6,945    4,014    1,828    2,822    23,916
Total Increment        10,146    10,626    6,818    4,958    7,104    39,652
a/  I Buri Teesta; II Pagner Haor; III Polder 55/1; IV Polder 64/LA:
V Polder 64/1B.
b/ Present, c/ without project, d/ with project.
e/ Other crops include chillies, o0iseeds, spices, kaon, groundnuts,
pulses and chillies.



- 36 -
B. Marketing and Prices
4.04       Bangladesh imported an average of about 1.75 million m ton food
grains per year (including food aid) between 1983 and 1988, or about 10? of
domestic consumption. Therefore, additional production of rice and wheat
under this project is not expected to cause marketing problems. Much of the
increased production will be consumed in the producing areas and surpluses can
easily be marketed through existing channels. Farmers have the option to sell
their grains under GOB's procurement program. However, since GOB procurement
prices tend to be lower than open market prices, farmers probably will sell
their produce in the local markets. The projected production increases of
vegetables, spices, oilseeds, tobacco and sugarcane are modest and farmers are
expected to sell these products locally without difficulty.
4.05       Food prices in the country are largely determined by supply and
demand. Although there are price fluctuations between locations, seasons and
years, prices in the open market generally are higher than GOB support prices.
GOB guarantees minimum prices for rice, wheat and sugarcane to protect farmers
against sharp price fluctuations and to encourage increased production of
these crops. The guaranteed prices are determined, taking into consideration
the cost of production plus a minimum of 202 markup over the cost of
production. The prices are adjusted periodically. Inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and irrigation equipment, were heavily subsidized by
GOB in the 19708 reaching up to 702 of the efficiency price. The policy was
reversed during the 1980s, and the subsidies on fertilizers have been reduced
every year.  In 1988, the subsidies for TSP and MP had declined to arouId 102
and 5? of their respective efficiency prices, while the price of urea exceeded
its efficiency price by about 9Z. Subsidies for irrigation equipment have
been eliminated, with the exception of DTWs for which GOB's subsidy still
represents about 66? of the efficiency price.
C. Farm Budgets
4.06       Farm budgets were prepared for each of the five appraised
subprojects under present and future with project conditions. Models were
based on owner-operated one hectare farms as about 80? of the rural households
operate farms about that size or less. The models reflect the prevailing
cropping patterns of each subproject. Gross income, cost of production, and
net income per hectare were estimated for each crop under present and with
project conditions, using actual 1989 prices. A snmmary of present, future,
and incremental farm incomes is given in Table 4.2. Detailed farm budgets are
given in Annex 11, Tables 6-10.



- 37 -
Table 4.2s Summary of Farm Incomes of One-ha Farms a/
(Tk)
With      Increment
Present  Proiect    Tk       A
1. Buri Teesta Irrigation          12,202    18,011    5,809   48
2. Pagner Haor Boro Protection      8,685    10,399    1,714   20
3. Polder 55/1                      6,064      8,389    2,325   38
4. Polder 6411A                    12,040    13,970    1,930   16
5. Polder 64/lB                    15,226    16,951    1,725   11
al Gross production value minus cash production cost.
4.07       Rehabilitation and Improvement works in the sample of five
subprojects would increase farm incomes by 11Z to 481. Polder 6411B
subproject shows a somewhat lower projected increase of 112 because farm
incomes already are relatively high. The Buri Teesta and Polder 55,1
subprojects are expected to have the highest increase of farm incomes, 48? and
38? respectively, mainly because of additional irrigation. The distribution
pattern of additional incomes, between owner-operators, tenants and landless
laborers, is not expected to differ substantially from the present situation.
About 80Z of the land in Bangladesh is cultivated by the owners, about 152 by
tenants, and about 52 by owner-cum-tenants. Tenancy agreements are usually
based on sharecropping for one crop season only, with the landowner taking 50X
of the crop and the tenant providing all inputs. The owner-operators and
landlords would receive larger absolute gains from the project investments
than would sharecroppers and landless laborers. However, sharecroppers and
landless laborers would gain, in proportion to current income, at least as
much as owner-operators and landlords. In conclusion, the analysis indicates
that most farmers would have strong incentives to support project activities.
D. Cost Recovery
4.08       In its efforts to initiate a viable system of cost recovery for
BWDB's projects, GOB gives priority to the recovery of O&M costs of irrigation
projects because (a) costs and benefits of irrigation facilities are generally
much larger on a per ha basis than those for flood control and drainage works,
(b) irrigation benefits can more readily be quantified, and (c) beneficiaries
of irrigation are generally in a better financial position to contribute to
the projects' O&M costs. Cost recovery from the beneficiaries of flood
control and drainage works is a complex issue. GOB's ability to impose
charges is limited by a number of practical considerations. First, flood
protection in Bangladesh, as in many countries, is considered a social service
and no charges have traditionally been collected by GOB for this type of work.
Second, benefits of flood control and drainage works vary from one plot to
another, depending on their location, land elevation, and soil quality. It
would be very difficult to determine fair rates reflecting the benefits
obtained by the farmers and their ability to pay. It is therefore GOB's view,
accepted by IDA, that cost recovery for such works is not feasible at this
stage.



- ZS -
4.09       Until recently, GOB supported OLM costs of the main irrigation
systems, delivering water to the turnouts, and also part of the OM costs of
LLPs which are being used by the farmers in several of BWDB's large irrigation
projects to lift the water from the main canals to the field channels. The
LLPs were owned by BWDB and rented out to the farmers at subsidized rates.
However, the rental system was discontinued in December 1988 and the pumps
were sold to the farmers. Maintenance of the LLPs was in the past ensured by
BWDB but now is the responsibility of the farmers themselves.
4.10       Recovery of OEM costs in BWDE's main irrigation systems is governed
by the provisions of the Bangladesh Water Rate Ordinance of 1983 and the
Bangladesh Irrigation Water Rate Rules of 1984. In 1984 GOB had decide.d to set
water rates in all 12 then existing operational irrigation projects. Specific
water rates for each project and for each of the three crop seasons. based on
the estimated O&M costs of the projects, were notified by MOI in 1984.
Meanwhile, the Water Rates Rules had designated BWDB as the responsible
authority for the assessment and collection of water rates. The Rules also
authorized BWDB to designate persons, or groups of persons, other than BWDB
employees to collect water rates. Where possible, BWDB arranged for the
Krishi Samabaya Samities (KSS-village cooperative societies) to collect the
water rates.
4.11       During the first year (FY85) water rate assessments were made for
about 100,000 ha, or about 552 of the area reported to have been irrigated in
the 12 projects during that year. The balance of the irrigated area could not
be assessed due to a shortage of BDDB staff. For the same reason, assessed
areas for subsequent years have declined to a level of about 80,000 ha in
FY88. Currently, most of the projects have a backlog of assessments of two
years or more. The total assessed amount for FY85 was about Tk 34 million
(about US$ 1.1 million) of which only about 4Z has actually been collected.
Collections during subsequent years were even lower but have finally improved
in FY89 when BWDB stepped up its efforts. As of June 30, 1989 about Tk 3.5
million (about US$110,000) had been collected for FY89, or about 1OZ of the
amount assessed. There are two main reasons for the disappointing performance
of BWDB in the collection of water rates. First, the supply of irrigation
water in many of the projects is insufficient or irregular. Reliability of
water supply in those projects should be improved through rehabilitation and
upgrading of the systems before water rates can be collected effectively from
the farmers. Second, the present system of assessments and collections is
cumbersome and overly staff-intensive. It therefore has become necessary to
simplify the procedures for assessment and collection of water rates.
4.12       Over the years, IDA has been closely involved in discussions on
water rates with GOB. This is reflected in the conditionality for several IDA
financed projects of which the Second Small Scale Flood Control, Drainage and
Irrigation Project (Credit 1870-BD) is the most recent. There it was agreed
that efforts to collect water rates would be limited initially to projects, or
parts of projects, where irrigation services were found to be adequate. The
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) for Credit 1870-BD therefore specifies that
(a) water rates in selected projects with satisfactory irrigation services
would be adjusted periodically in order to reach full OH cost recovery by
June 30, 1995, (b) proposals would be prepared to improve irrigation services
in projects found to be deficient in this regard, and (c) collection
procedures would be improved in accordance with a program satisfactory to IDA.



- 39 -
4.13       After the unprecedented floods of 1987 and 1988, senior staff of
MOI and BWDB were fully occupied with arranging for repair works of damaged
projects. It became therefore necessary to delay actions on the agreements
reached under Credit 1870-BD. However, recently MOI and BWDB have prepared
preliminary proposals to improve irrigation services in deficient projects.
The proposals would be further developed and implemented under this project.
MOI also has drafted an amendment for the Irrigation Water Rate Ordinance
which incorporates two important changes designed to simplify the existing
assessment and collection procedures. First, future assessments would be made
only once every year instead of each crop season. The main irrigation season
(January through April) would be uped as the basis for setting annual water
rates covering the projects' O&M cost for tae entire year.  Second, water
rates would be assessed on a collective basis for the entire area commanded by
a LLP or a gravity outlet, instead of each individually owned parcel of
irrigated land. The owners of the LLPs and the outlet committees would be
responsible for collecting water rate payments from the farmers. These
changes would greatly reduce the cost of assessnent and collection of water
charges which is critically important for effective recovery of irrigation
costs. MOI also has drafted revised Water Rate Rules to implement the
amended Ordinance. Implementation of the revised assessment and collection
system would start in the three irrigation projects to be supported under the
project's improved O&M component, i.e., CIP, MIP, and IP. CIP was notified
in 1984 for the collection of water rates, and KIP and MHP were notified in
1989. Prcmulgation by GOB of the amendment to the Irrigation Water Rate
Ordinance, 1983, would be a condition of Credit Effectiveness. An assurance
was obtained from GOB during negotiations that the revised Irrigatlon Water
Rate Rules would be promulgated by December 31, 1990.



- 40 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      The primary benefit of the project would be increased agricultural
production. Paddy production in about 80 subprojects to be implemented under
this project, would increase by about 240,000 m ton, valued at about US$37
million per year, at full development. Also, the project would save about
160,000 m ton paddy, valued at about US$25 million per year, that otherwise
would be lost due to further deterioration of project facilities. The income
from increased crop production and avoiding potential losses would directly
benefit about four million people, including sharecroppers, landless laborers
and landowners, in about 700,000 families. The project would also generate an
additional labor demand of about 25,000 man-years per year for firm
acti'ities. The additional employment created during the rehabilitation and
O&M activities is estimated at 100,000 man-years and would maitly benefit the
landless.
B. Economic Juatification
5.02      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is
estimated at 37Z. The NPV for the project is estimated at about US$79
million.  The methodology and main assumptions underlying the economic
analysis are as follows:
(a) Agricultural Development. The incremental costs and benefits, and
the ERR for the project have been based on a sample of five
representative subprojects. The key variables affecting the
viability of the subprojects are crop yields, cropping patterns, and
cropping intensities. Estimates of these are discussed in Chapter
IV and detailed in Annexes 11 and 12.
(b) Input-Output Prices. The Bank's June 1989 price projections were
used wherever applicable for traded goods. For other goods,
domestic financial prices were converted to economic prices using a
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8. Unskilled labor costs were
adjusted by a conversion factor of 0.75. The financial and economic
prices are summarized in Annex 12, Table 2.
(c) Project Execution. Pre-construction activities would start in FY90.
Construction would begin in FY91 and wou.ld be completed in 'Y97.
The implementation schedule is shown in Annex 7. The period of
analysis used in calculating the ERR is 25 years.
(d) Investment Cost. Only the costs directly associated with
rehabilitation and improvement of the subprojects were counted. Of
these, transfer payments (land acquisition, taxes, and duties) and
price contingencies were excluded. Local costs were adjusted by a
SCF of 0.8.



- 41 -
te) Operation and Maintenance. Incremental costs for O&M were estimated
for each subproject and were adjusted by a SCF of 0.8.
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
5.03      To test the sensitivity of the ERR to possible adverse changes in
key variables, several tests were conducted. The analysis has been based on
the representative sample of five subprojects. Table 5.1 shows the percentage
change from the appraisal values required in each of these variables to reduce
the ERR to 122 (the estimated opportunity cost of capital). The tests show
that relatively large adverse changes would be necessary to imperil the
project's economic viability.
Table 5.1: Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Value
Variable Tested                               (percentage change)
Increase of Cost of Rehabilitation
and O&M                                            +180
Reduction of Gross Crop Revenue                       -81
Increase of Cost of Farm Inputs                      +131
Reduction of Net Project Benefits                     -32
Lag in Benefits (in years)                              5
5.04      Risks.  Delays in the implementation of the project due to delays in
pre-construction activities are a risk facing the project. However, because
the project comprises a large number of subprojects, eventual delays should
affect only a limited number of subprojects. Also, the designs for the first
group of 16 subprojects to be rehabilitated during the early project years
already have been prepared and land acquisition requirements for these
subprojects are minimal. The project strategy to further reduce this risk
includes technical assistance fr planning and design of the remaining
subprojects, monitoring of rehabilitation and improvement works, and training
of BWDB staff and beneficiaries in performing their tasks. A second risk is
the possible shortage of local funds for rehabilitation and O&M of project
facilities. In order to reduce this risk the financial contribution by GOB
has been kept at a minimum during the initial post-rehabilitation years and
external donors would finance a substantial part of the incremental O&M costs
of the subprojects. Furthermoze, GOB has agreed to increase its allocations
for O&M of existing BWDB projects by 102 per year until all requirements are
fully financed (para 2.09). Special emphasis would also be given in the
project to reducing the cost and improving the standards of O&M.



- 42 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01 Assurances have been obtained from GOB that:
(a)   BWDB would select subprojects according to agreed criteria (para
2.05 and Annex 1);
(b)   processing of land acquisition applications would start at least
twelve months, funds would be allocated at least six months, and
BWDB would obtain possession of the land needed for construction
at least one month, before construction commences (para 2.03);
(c)   allocations for maintenance works, electricity and fuel costs in
BWDB's existing projects not financed under the Annual Development
Program would be increased by at least 1OZ per year in real terms
from the FY89 level of TK 210 million (about US$6.5 million) until
such time that all requirements are fully financed (para 2.09);
(d)   improved O&M procedures would be adopted in all BWDB operation and
maintenance divisions in at-cordance with a schedule to be
submitted to IDA by June 30, 1994 (para 2.12);
Ce) all consultants would be appointed by July 31, 1990 under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA (para 2.20);
(f)   draft annual O&H programs and budgets for all subprojects to be
financed by IDA, draft aggregate annual O&M budgets for all BWDB
operation and maintenance divisions, and finalized annual work
programs and budgets for the entire project would be submitted for
review to IDA at specified intervals (para 3.07);
(g)   a Subproject Committee would be established before implementa-
tion of each subproject (para 3.12); and
(h)   the revised Irrigation Water Rate Rules would be promulgated by
December 31, 1990 (para 4.13).
6.02     Conditions of effectiveness for the IDA Creeit would be: (a)
effectiveness of the co-financing agreements between GOB and EC, and GOB and
GON (para 2.27); (b) approval of the Project Proforma by GOB (para 2.27); (c)
issue of Board Orders by BWDB designating the Chief Engineer for O&M and the
Directors for O&N and Rehabilitation (para 3.01); (d) issue of a Board Order
by BWDB designating the Director General for Training and Staff Development
(para 3.14); and e) promulgation by GOB of the amendment to the Irrigation
Water Rate Ordinance, 1983, (para 4.13).
6.03     . condition of disbursement against expenditures for operation and
maintenance of all subprojects would be the submission by GOB of a firm
staffing plan for BWDB's Chandpur, Muhuri, and Karnafuli Irrigation projects
and the Nawabganj OEM Subdivision (para 3.06).
6.04     With the above conditions and assurances the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 40.8 million (US$53.9 million equivalent) on



- 43 -
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 yearc. The Borrower would be the
People's Republic of Bangladesh.



*                                     - 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selection of Subprojects for Rehabilitation and Improvement.
Criteria for Selection of Subproiects
1.       Subprojects would be selected for rehabil'tation and improvement
among the projects listed in BWDB's inventory of operational projects. In
order to qualify for inclusion in the project portfolio proposed subprojects
must satisfy the following criteria:
(a) no other source of funding, with the exception of the Food-for-
Work program, is available for rehabilitation or improvement
works;
(b) the feasibility study of the subproject has included a review of
the technical, environmental and economic aspects of the
subproject and :onfirms that the proposed works are sound and the
subproject has a rate of return on investments of at least 15Z;
(c) the proposed improvement works are necessary; beneficiaries of
the subproject are expected to actively participate in the
subproject; and proposed solutions of possible social problems
related to implementation (such as land acquisition, beneficiary
participation in operation and maintenance, willingness to
improve cropping patterns, etc.) have been fully discussed with
residents of the subproject area, local authorities and
representatives of the technical departments concerned,
particularly agriculture and fisheries; and
(d) the total investment cost of the subproject is not less than
US$50,000 and the cost of improvements works does not exceed 501
of the total cost of the subproject.
Guidelines for Prioritizing Feasibility Studies
2.       The following guidelines should be followed to prioritize the
feasibility studies of proposed subprojects:
(a) risk of loss of benefits due to deterioration of subproject
facilities;
(b) scope for involving manual labor, particularly destitute women
and the landless, in the execution of the works;



- 45 -
ANEX 1
Page 2
(c) scope for expanding irrigation following rehabilitation of
subproject facilities;
(d) scope for minimizing possible adverse effects and increasing
benefits for special groups, particularly fishermen and boatmen;
and
(e) scope for target groups to utilize BWDB assets (embankments,
inlets, sluices) for productive purposes.



Aaaraiae  Subarole.
Eati at.d
Total Area (ha)          onaetited Area (ha)                                   Oa" Cast
SubproJet                           Cro_s COltivable     FCD       SC    pan       OlD   TP/RSP Baneficiaries    Tb ON   WN          Propoaed Worku.
1. Ibri Toaata Irrigation  Jaldhaka    9,000       6.070                             6.070                 88,000       41      18       RaIab: Field work t1in aid
Ki ahbomj an Diut-la Urazil las n                                                                                                    Sr. cnal 18 km.
Ntlphomrri District                                                                                                                  Raconstruction, outiet..
canaol lining. RapaIc
regulator. repair. to
barrage.
I_: Field canl Str 48
r. Syhon anz bitde  6
=        Fi .I can.l So . 6 k
2. Coastal ibanknt Project             8,780       4.600   5.750   4,600      480                          46,400       20     0.6       Retiab: Eialnkeant
PaIder 64/1A                                                                                                                         reemstioning 153.000 au a.
oak%al1i Iiaila In Chittee4g                                                                                                         Regir *luices a ra.
DMetric                                                                                                                              Repsair bridge. and culvert
a nr..
lap: Owal re-excavation
111.000 cu a. Slulce 3
no.
S. Coastal   ankmnt Project            7,740       o.670   7,740              No                           130.300      32      1.0       Ahb: E-a nt
Polder 614/l8                                                                                                                        roeaatining 47 kma. Sluice
kmnkhait Upaslla In Chittagon_                                                                                                      repair. 10 now. Raeplac
District                                                                                                                             ride  and culvert. S  o.
IMP: M_ sluice a no. 
0'
4. Coal E nI       Project            10.600       7.600  10,00S   7.800   7.600                           o7.000       2S       1        eahb: NMaI re-_*  avtion
Polder 88/1                                                                                                                          4S km.  "ankment ret.
ONacO p  taIlla In Patuakhall                                                                                                        paact. and repairs 48 km.
Dit0rict                                                                                                                             Reulto and pipe Sluice.s
PM: Flutnkin to
irriattun sluieu- 7 am.
Fiel turnout., M   w.
Drain eatnSion    D0.000
cum .
8. Pamger tow  oro Protection         19.000      17.200   9.800            7.00                           17.000       37       1       RAebu:  Oral recavtion
.~l alaj Lpazill to i Sunaugani                                                                                                      6 km. Habenkeant
District                                                                                                                             reseactiening 2U km.
Protection worka 8.600
cu a.
6. Sangu River anki Protection                                                                  RP 1/      1S.000       6o       2       Reia: Repairs to
rstmuIk. 2,200 ru a.
Ip: NMm revetmnt. 51.000
cu a.        
Total                              8290       41t340  89S790  i2.400  18 750   6,070                  388.700      226      7.0
AbEaU
FCD            Flood Control and Drainage
SC             Salinity Control
PM5            Primry Gravity Irri ation Supply
0iD           GOrvIty Irrigation Di atribution 
TPfh                  Toan ProtectionfRiverbank Protection
1/   Protecton provide  to Oovernnt *a private installations. hoesteads and agricultural lands valued at US26 million.
Septenkr 14. 1969



BANW.ADESH
BUB SYSTEMS R4AIULTATION PROJECT
Unaseraite  Prooaed Suborolecta
Cost
Area - Ha    Ss.i tted -
Type and SubproJ.ct            Upegi I la/District     Croon/Net  People - No.  Tk U    USb u         Proposed Worke
Flood Control and Droetag.
1. Darkuri Khal R-Excavation       Kaposai/Gazipur         6,220/4,U0       23,900     10.6      0.4      Rethb:  Embenk    ResIet, Khul
*xcavation 14 ka, sluice and
bridge repirs.
Imp: R-e*xcavation Main to or
Khals, Regulator 1100.
Flood Control, Drainag
and Irrigition
2. Chandpur Irription              Chandpur/Co.ill       U4,000/S0,000      70,000    146.8      4.6      Rehab: Stopping piping at pmp
houe. 
3. Dbhaka-rayanganj-Dmrs           Upezillee In Doaka,     7,708/4,720     267,700      7.2      0.2      Rehab: Repatr pump station,
irrigation          I      b     raypnpnJ                                                             reection e_nrst 6 coals.
Imp: Pup Station.
Subtotal                                             61,760/84,720     327,700    16J.0      4.8
Drainag and Irrigetion
4. FPrldpur Drainage O'ae I        Up asille  In         48,600/369,00     407,000    64.9       2.0      Rehab: BSroeh cloure and
Farldpur, ReJban and                                                   river excavation.
GoplgenJ                                                               Imp: NW    enkmsat, a *liles.
S. Profapur Irrigation             Khaloo/Bogra            6,100/4,000      29,700                        Rehrb: Rogulsior rep. (7 nee.)
I-p: Drainag canals 154000 am u
6. GCngaI River Improvemwnt        ShibgooJ/6ogre          8,265/3,690      26,900    80.8       0.9      Rehab: Re-excavatlon 1.1 a cs m,
repair to regulators (2 noe.).
Ip: Rp Iulator 1 no.
Subtotal                                             57,585/48,118     463,600     9.2       2.9                                       w



BSANADESH
BIS SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Unaporalsed Pr eored Suboroloct
Cost
Area - Ha     SwatIttod -
Typ  and SubproJet              UpeziI la/District      Gros/Nat  People - No.  Tk 1         USe U       Propoed Work*
Coastal Embankmnt Projeet
7. Polder 89/13 A D                 Mtbrlo, Bamna/Bauno 14,600/12,000         74,000    97.6        8.0      Rehab: Embankment ropeiro 88 km.
protection works, gate
replacement.
lmp: Sea dykes 4 Im, mrginal
embankment 84 km, dr. sluices 18
no,., dlitr. system.
S. Polder 67                        Teknaf/CossO Bazaar     1,700/1,8C4       82,200      12.7      0.4      Rebab: Embank. Reset. 11 km,
*luico 7 nos.
9. Polder 59/2                      R_mgtl/Lox ipur       88,000/25,000       91,800   11.9        8.8      Rehab: Embonk. r esct. 81 km.
*lulce  2 son.                            .
Imp: Now embenkmente 10 km,
sluces 10 mm.
Subtota l                                             49,800/88,Jb4      197,500    282.2       7.2
Town Protection/
Riverbank Protection
10. Kushlyara Riverbank Protection  Zaklgpnj/Sylhet                           70,000     74.0       2.8      Rehab: Rleir to groyn  I noe.,
bank revetments.
Imp: Extension of revetments.
Total                                               174,965/120,608    1,067,400    567.9      17.5
September 15, 1099
la
N1
ar



mm.B SYSIE1 RE4ABILTTATIOli PROJET
Identified Sub. olecta
wo                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area  BoeCatk
Item   Inventory        TY  ad                                                                                        MM Cbnlitted    1   Prtce
lb.        ND.         SubProject                                      tpmzilII                Dittrict              IhD  Cire                    (he)          ThH
Flood Control end Drainag
1         45       Morichar Denra                                    Nowshganj. Shibganj     Nabganj               Rajehnhi                   6l200            6.1
2        la       HWals Ebankaent                                   Hizia                   earie l Iarsel l                                   200            6.4
8    U 81          Ohnn Kuna tho r                                   Oharpaaha               Sunasgni              Sy hot                     160 U
3        1S2       Hllr Hoor                                         JSy ioni                Sunagonj              Sylht                      5.700           41.6
4        184       Karcher thor                                      Suna                    Suneagon              SYt                        4,400           10.4
6        16        Shanrtror                                         Ja_lgni  aT erHur       Sunanr                Sylhet                     *700            12.0
6        187      Obti t Hor                                        Taherour                  snow                SylIht                     S COD           27.t
7        le          bballo H or                         rm_lgon3, Tuherpur                  Sunuen Sygu                                      1.400           1S 3
S        186        i*ho                                             T     apTasaow  Oarmpi nh   Sunenj            Syht1 2                                       7
9        190       Chndra Sunarthal                                  Ohar_peeha              Sunneagn              Sylh3t S200                                1. 1
,Zw       191       ChSptiar Hor                                      Dire)                   Sunaagon              SyIet                      8,200           42.6
11        192       Kalna threc4iniu                                                                                  :aju                        1              .
11   l:     4       KuinnaiH or                  Sunnq B=ronJ                                 Sunaagon              S  hot                     4,200           24.3
122 ;*     4        Knu   Bun h                                       Btrol BlownJ. *te       Dlnajpur              Dtsr                         3au            2.41
18        174       Polder e8/3 Char Fatzudin                        lhnpur;                  shol                   hl Irrition               1.220            4.2
14  (add.) 11       iwank.ant at LLP Scheme Rangpur                   Laleonirat. etc.        Rannpur. Kurior    Tub_*W1  Th kurgeen          -                 9.6
Subtal                                                                                                                                          e4.,m
Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
1S        112       Bornal SaltNr                                     Terokhada, etc.         Klnu                   hulno                    to00             18.7
18        201       Mna River Irrigatin                                oultevi Bazaar         "Dulai  "azaa         Menu River Project        22 400           36.5
17        177       Sari Oeyn                                         Jaintapur               Sylhet                Sylhet                     5.400           41.0
Subtotal                                                                                                                                        44.600
Drainase and Irrigation
is         s6       Dikuhi Seal                                       Chatachar               Pabnu                 Pabna I80 0O                                1.6
19         87       Jaikatchra Bel                                    Athoris                 Pena                  Pana 186                   1.82             S.1
20         59       Chinidna Bel                                      Chatnehar. Braeira Pnbna. Rajahahi            P'abn: '-                  2,400            S.0
21         68       Chi kna Chnchu Sundh                             FPrlidur                 Pabna                 Pabnn __                   4,000            6.0
22         71       Barnal Khal                                       Kuehtia                 Kuehtit               a K Pr*o;ct                  2B0            1.6
23         74       Talbarim Khal                                     Dauletgar               Kuehtita              0 K.    aoct                s0             2.1
24         S1       Panweeht River                                     rpur                   Kuehttn               0. K. ProJet                 m0              .7
28         78       Pede tHor Khel                                    "eur                      aura                Q. K. ProJ ct                 809
26        262       Noekhali Khal                                     Sudhar.- Bewuageni      NkoaIhalI             Comlla                    14.400           82.0
27        138       Duridah Boo                                       lldhukhaI               Raiibari              For,ipur                   5o6OO            2.4
26         14       1_. Baarie Ichainti River                         Cabtali BIraI                                 Bogr                       6.600           26.
29        10U       "kSin Bl DrSao a                                  Sar                     Jeore                 Mhulna                       400            4 4
a8        I2        K nchikat Khal Sluic                              Nnoh dordt              Ohaka                 Dhaka                      6,000            3.3
81        228       Re-excavation ot Derankhali ihel                  Shlbpur                 Ohaka                 Dhnkn                        400            4.4      #0
82        26        Re-excavatton  f Dein Khnl, Khal In Housa Bundh  Dhacrat                  Dhaka                 Dhaka                         00           25.4      1
as        19S       P R-excavation ot Jhingri Nnadi                    haniachong, Aj_eerigon3  Hbionj              SylIht                     2,100           5. Joo
84        248       Care iventv Drainage Schm  - Nohakeli             B an   Lakhipur    Nka I   Lak hipur  Comilln                           97.000           38.2      0
35        140       Fanidpur Drainage - Phao  1I (Zones 2, 5)         Several  sai le        Faridpur              Far dIur I7.                                         _ 8    t000
Subtotal                                                                                                                                       180,640



U..t#.i S.bgmaeta
wo                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Are.  De" Cect I/
item   Iemou           Tam  md                                                                                                          heoflttd    Ion prig".
Sb.        ib.        Ijibor=ject                 JsaII                                     oleatl               WOtD Circle                 (he)             N
IrrgtOle
a           4      L. L. P. - Nwthern Districts - Dloil                         jr                              lubemel l.goom TSouo 2                   30.5
37          6      W. C. S. Pi"bseh rh. flAursem, Dtowlpur           irol,      J *D.    D Jur                  T el Thkur                 S               2so
S          11      L L. P.        r mid Krir..                      Ll iet. e              i_ur  luri           1U lI ThUrgma                D            U.7
at                 W . C. S. SeIt    :e imu                                                Sr.2
40        In        L. L  P. P JSb t                                P"t bjei   IbJ_                                                        t 440          12.1
41         1i      L. LP. ihe                                        i tilr,ur              hra                   se2r, . 0.                 HO           22 .
42       2m3         u r1   _T n IT Kuh;ri                                                 Chltmig              CF      _                    660           1.J
45         67         . C.. ha morm                                 Uheurhd        a       C. K. Proec                                        40           2.1
44         U       W. C. S.  ihmra Dull reur at                         rhd                  aa                  . K. Prdject                 4O           2.1
45         69      V. C. S. ihlalr, bhl r SrOt                          rr                                  a_                       _ o K. i       0       4
46                 W V. C. S. t_imrs Sbirlamsut                     .&eedaS h0 *                                                                             0
11.870
Comtm I alboakliumm rject                                                                                                                                                   $Ua
47          0      Poluier                                                                 Nk Su   bll          Cmila                     is,0             7.1
4           0      Pldr 7        a/U, S                             ITtuie                 #bell                Cmille                     4.000          2.9
49         96     Prle  762Itiyin                                                          Nokbeoll             Cam Illa                    so6            4.5
so         96      Pider 611Cluttalganip                                                   Oulttwegme                                      ::itegn6,0      5.6
Si                 Pbldr    A                                       I re                   Clatgmn                 ta                                      7.0
8  Wi  ibl UJ1C                                   i~~~~~~hakhll           a|_Culteguw01 tgu.                              2,600           5.6
40             Polder 64/ICl                                                          Caehegarv            Chltegm
la                 Pldar   6                                        ChIerl                 Cm's hger            Chlt e                     60             6.4
54                 Po.d 44,69                                                                                                             3,10a am  Cl  0  80.4
U     40      P.54.55tid                                       Chelerly,              C..'. sonar          Chitega                    6104.7
to 4          Folder 6/1                                      RUN                    Coo' hageswr         Chi ttgn                    ,0              .6
57         40      P.14. a                                         Ca.'. hager             CON'O hmr            Ch  g. 11 31
n          40       older as                                        Cohn'sefm              Co': hOmar           Cil ag.g 
so  a  ftmw                                        Tekwf~~C'.             C'on  Omr            Ch gin                    *.S5.6
65 40   is         Polda 69                                         blmkhhl                Cm.': limmer         Chitmgn                    160              .
51    40      ~~~~P.54.70                                    cOaakrl                  Conlm'haer           Chitg.e                     309.5
66         40      P.141 n                                         Kutubid                 Cm's hlge_r            i e                                      1.6
Tote                                                                                                                                        0.6
11  Ll     tefd   eo  of rbillittim _t 1d1i_fled In Pri1 .
6eerI. 13                                                                                                                                                          i
S1&



- 51 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Improved Operation and Maintenance
General
1.       Oblectives.  The main objectives of the improved O&M component are to
(a) improve planning and budgeting for OEM, (b) make mox-2 efficient use of
GOB's limited financial resources for OLM by reducing the cost, where
possible, and by shifting part of the responsibilities to the beneficiaries,
(c) involve the landless, particularly women, in maintenance works, and (d)
ensure increased and sustainable agricultural production and incomes.
Selected Schemes
2.       The Karnafuli, Muhuri and Chandpur Irrigation projects and the
Nawabganj Sub-division under Rajshahi OlM Division have been selected for the
improved O&M component. The four schemes are at present in good physical
condition but insufficient maintenance is being done. To avoid deterioration
and the need for future rehabilitation, a preventive and periodic maintenance
program would be introduced.
3.       Karnafuli Irrigation Project (RIP).  The project is situated east of
Chittagong town. Two out of four irrigation units planned originally were
completed in 1984. The Halda unit comprises 19,000 ha, of which 13,000 ha is
irrigable. During high tide, water is taken into the main system from the
Karnafuli and Halda rivers by gravity. There are 15 regulators in the unit,
of which five have navigation locks. The Ichamati unit covers 3,200 ha, of
which 2,600 ha is irrigable; irrigation water is taken in from the Karnafuli
river by a main pumping plant with a capacity of 4.0 cumec, of which 1.6 cumec
is re-lifted by a second plant. In both units farmers predominantly irrigate
by LLPs.  The units have 135 km of channel and 103 km of embankment.  The
primary objective of the project is to supply irrigation water to permit
double cropping. Aman rice, which is not irrigated, is yielding about 4.0-4.5
m ton/ha, while the boro paddy yields are about 4.9 m ton/ha on average.
During 1987/88, 12,720 ha was irrigated (80 boro and 202 rabi), covering
about 90? of the command area.
4.       Muhuri Irrigation Project (MIP).  The project is located around the
confluence of the Muhuri and Feni rivers in the northeastern corner of the Bay
of Bengal. The project area is approximately 27,000 ha, of which 18,000 ha is
irrigable. The project was completed in 1985. Construction of the project
included a large regulator and a cross dam across the Feni river. This cross
dam facilitates water retention for dry season irrigation. Irrigation is
carried out by LLPs from channels and rivers. To provide better access to the
irrigation water, 175 km existing channels were improved and 20 km new
channels were excavated. A total of 1,100 pumps were planned to be fielded.
During the 1987/88 season, 963 pumps were operating, irrigating about 17,000



- 52 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
ha.
5.       Chandpur Irrigation Project (CIP).  The project is located on the
left bank of the Lower Meghna river, about 70 km southeast of Dhaka town. It
was constructed in the 1970s and covers a gross area of 55.000 ha. of which
about 25,000 ha are irrigable and 23,000 ha were irrigated in 1987188. A
pumping plant with six 5.5 cumec pumps provides water for irrigation and is
used for drainage as well. In almost the entire project area the water is
relifted by LLPs; only about 400 ha can be irrigated directly by gravity flow
from the canals.
6.       Nawabgani O&M Sub-division.  The Nawabganj O&M Sub-division is part
of the Rajshahi O&M Division and is responsible for seven flood control and
drainage (FCD) schemes located about 20 to 40 km northwest of Rajshahi town.
The gross area covered is about 40,000 ha.
Preventive and Periodic Maintenance Program
7*       Annual maintenance programs would be prepared which would specify
preventive and periodic maintenance works. At the core of the preventive
maintenance program is the introduction of Earthwork Maintenance Groups (EMG)
and Structure Maintenance Groups (SMG), consisting of landless women and men.
During recent years maintenance work through these groups has been
successfully done by the Local Government Engineering Bureau (LGEB) and other
agencies. The quality of the work has proven to be better and laborers
incomes have increased considerably compared with works done by contractors.
Periodic earthwork maintenance would follow BWDB's procurement procedures.
Sp-cial attention would be given to ensure that a fixed minimum wage is paid
to the laborers, as has been successfully applied since 1983 in the Delta
Development Project in Khulna District. Preventive maintenance would be done
on a continuous basis. Periodic maintenance work would follow 3- to 15-year
cycles.
8.       Preventive Earthwork Maintenance would be done on embankments and
also on canals which carry water intermittently. Organized groups of
destitute women would be employed. Destitute women are defined as female
heads of landless households who are divorced, widowed, separated or
abandoned, with dependents. Women groups are organized by a Non Government
Organization (NGO) working in the area or by the Bangladesh Rural Development
Board (BRDB) under their Mahila Bittahin Samabaya Samity (MBSS) program. The
organization of the work would be similar to the "Women Embankment Maintenance
Program" under the Delta Development Project in Khulna District. EMGs would
have a maximum of ten members, each woman initially covering about 1,000 m of
embankment or canal, depending on the need for preventive maintenance.
Maintenance would be year round, five hours a day, six days a week. Groups
would be contracted on a monthly basis. Payments would be made fortnightly
through a local bank, based on a rate in compliance with the Bangladesh Labour
Law (equivalent to 3.5 seers of paddy for an eight hour working day).
Substitutes in case of illness would be allowed and penalty clauses defined.
A Project/Polder Women Cammittee would act on behalf of the women groups
involved in maintenance and would deal with communications with the BWDB
office, recruitment of women from the various groups, fortnightly payments,



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
and settling of penalty issues.
9.       Preventive Structure Maintenance.  A preventive structure maintenance
program similar to the Rural Employment Sector Program in Faridpur, Madaripur
and Kurigram Districts would be initiated with the assistance of a NGO or
BRDB. Only those works would be included in the program, for which the cost
of repair does not exceed 102 of replacement cost of major structures or 30Z
of minor ones. SMGs would consist of three unskilled laborers from an
organized group of landless people and would be given training as maintenance
laborers. A skilled mason or carpenter would be added to each group.
Preference in selecting craftsmen should be given to those who train the
laborers most effectively. The NGO or BRDB would advise on the selection of
the group members. Each group would be given a country boat or a van and
equipment. The group would tbe responsible for carrying materials, securing
those on site and carrying out repair and maintenance work. Materials would
be procured by BWDB on spot quotation or tendering. Work would be based on an
annual workplan but priority would be given to emergency repairs. Contracts
would be for six-month periods and penalty clauses would be defined. Payment
of the unskilled laborers would be made according to the Bangladesh Labour
Law. For the craftsmen the prevailing local rates would be followed.
10.      Periodic Earthwork Maintenance would consist of resectioning of
embankments and re-excavation of channels. The maintenance would be
implemented once per seven years, on average. For the irrigation and drainage
channels in KIP, MIP and CIP, the expected cycle is shorter -- four, three,
and five years, respectively. Work would be done under PFW or tendered
following BWDB procedures, with a contractual obligation for the contractor to
pay the laborers a minimum wage rate for a fixed amount of work. These rates
would be compatible with the FFW rates. If the contractor failed to pay the
minimum wage rate, BWDB would take action against him.  Turfing would be done
under separate contracts by womens groups.
11.      Periodic Structure Maintenance is required for major repair of
structures and buildings. The maintenance cycle for irrigation and drainage
structures and pumping stations is 15 years on average, but shorter for the
Feni regulator (ten years). Work would be tendered to contractors following
existing BWDB procedures.
Operation
12.      Based on the outcome of water management surveys to be executed in
the first project year, operation of the main system would be improved.
Annual operational plans would be formulated for the four schemes with
emphasis on improved drainage and water distribution to ensure a dependable
supply at the LLP stations and gravity inlets. In KIP special attention would
be given to the need for LLPs in the area upstream of the relift pumping
station. In MTP improved operation of the Feni regulator would reduce the
risk of downstream erosion and therefore the cost of maintenance. In CIP the
effectiveness of drainage pumping would be given special attention as well as
the water distribution efficiency in the gravity irrigated areas. In the
seven FCD schemes under the Nawabganj Sub-division the operation of sluice
gates would be optimized.



-54                                 ANNEX 2
Page 4
Timing and Coverage of Proposed Actions
13.      Improved O&M would be introduced in the first project year in about
25Z of the area of all four projects under consideration, and full coverage
would be reached by year four. The improved O&H system would be expanded to
cover other subprojects where rehabilitation is completed and the one-year
maintenance period by contractors has expired. In year four, improved O&M
would be introduced in eight additional subprojects; about 20, ten and five
subprojects would be covered during years five, six and seven, respectively.
The total area covered would be about 450,000 ha.
Responsibilities of Various Entities and Staff Requirements
14.      Assisted by a team of consultants (Annex 5), BWDB would be
responsible for implementation of the improved maintenance program.  BRDB
would intensify its activities in the four projects, emphasizing the formation
and strengthening of BSS and MBSS cooperatives which would form the EMGs and
SMGs. An analysis of the four projects indicates that the BWDB field
divisions are overstaffed. The present two divisions with seven sub-divisions
of CIP could be reduced to one division with three sub-divisions and the staff
to about 110. For MIP the project directorate with three divisions and seven
sub-divisions could be reduced to one division with two sub-divisions. The
total staff could be reduced to about 100. The set-up at KIP could remain
unchanged but the staff could be reduced to about 90. For all projects, the
number of sluice gate operators could be reduced to one per three to five
sluices. Based on the above analysis, BWDB would review its essential
personnel requirements for the four schemes and prepare a firm staffing plan,
together with proposals to transfer, retrain or retire all surplus staff
currently posted in these projects. BRDB would increase the number of its
field staff for the three irrigation projects by about 20 village accountants
and 100 village inspectors, to strengthen the organization of the
cooperatives.
Financing Arrangements
15.      In all four schemes the ongoing FFW program would be fully integrated
in the improved maintenance program. Instead of the present Project
Implementation Committees, which are established for only one construction
season, permanent Subproject Committees would be made responsible for this
program and would execute the periodic earthwork maintenance program.
Preventive maintenance as well as the periodic structure maintenance would be
done on a cash basis and would be financed up to year four by EC and
thereafter by GON on a declining basis. Earthwork preventive maintenance in
CIP would be done under FFW on a trial basis. Establishment costs, including
agreed BWDB personnel (para 14), office and transport requirements, would be
financed under the IDA Credit on a declining basis.
Annual O&M Costs
16.      Estimates of the total annual costs of improved O&H for the three
irrigation projects, assuming efficient BWDB staffing levels (para 14), are



-55- S5AM     2
Page 5
given in Table 1 of this Annez. The total OEM costs per ha of irrigable land
would amount to about US$27 in MIP (there no primary pumping for irrigation is
needed) and about US$38 In RIP and CIP.



- 56 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Annual O&M Costs 11
KIP        MIP       CIP
Area (ha)
'i)  Irrigable Land                            15,600     18,000    25,000
(ii)  Irrigated in 1987/88                      12,720     17,000    23,000
Estimated O&M Cost (Tk '000)
(i) Pumping for Irrigation and Drainage         2,400        -        9,900
(ii)  Maintenance of Embankmervts                5,100        800      5,600
(iii)  Other Cost, including Establishment 1/   11,700      15,000    14,700
Total                                     19,200     15,800    30,200
Estimated O&M Cost per Ha (Tk)
(i)  Irrigable Land                             1,230        875    1,210
(ii)  Irrigated in 1987/88                       1,510         930    1,315
1/ Assuming efficient BWDB staffing levels
September 12, 1989



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BEWDB SYSTEHS REHABILITATION PROJECT
On-farm Development
General
1.       Objectives.  The on-farm development program would (a) increase the
involvement of beneficiaries and landless women and men in planning,
construction, and O&M of on-farm development work, (b) improve capabilities
and motivation of BWDB's staff for handling O&M, and (c) increase agricultural
production and incomes. Concepts of farmer participation, successfully
developed and tested by other government agencies, would be introduced.
2.       Selected Schemes.  Polder 55/1 and the Buri Teesta Irrigation sub-
project have been selected for on-farm development. Polder 55/1 has large but
unused irrigation potential, and as such is representative for an extensive
area in the Greater Faridr:r and Patuakhali Districts.  The Buri Teesta
Irrigation subproject was constructed as a pilot O&M scheme for the Teesta
Irrigation project (500,000 ha), now under implementation. The pilot scheme
still has not yielded proper directions for command area development and O&M
of the Teesta project.
Polder 55/1
3.       Background.  Polder 55/1 is one of the coastal polders in Galachipa
Upazila, Patuakhali District, about 25 km south of Patuakhali town. The polder
was completed in 1977 and its population is about 60,000. An embankment of 46
km is protecting an area of 10,800 ha against flooding. Drainage of the
polder is facilitated by nine drainage sluices. Seventeen flushing sluices
allow for irrigation by gravity; some of the sluices have a drainage function
as well. Although fresh water is available, irrigation is hardly practiced.
About 7,800 ha is cultivated, most of it single cropped. About half of the
cultivated area is under aman rice, nearly all transplanted, and about 40Z is
under boro/aus rice. Most varieties are local and yields are low (1.7 m
ton/ha on average). Rabi crops are grown on 20Z of the cultivated land. Land
distribution is very skewed, and many large landowners are absentee.
Sharecropping arrangements are extremely unfavorable for the cultivator, as
two-thirds of the crop goes to the landowner while the cultivator has to bear
the cost of all inputs. In the months March-May the polder faces some
salinity problems, although during the design stage in the 1960s rivers were
fresh year-round.
4.       retailed Objectives.  Objectives are to (a) design and implement a
proper long-term O&H program with emphasis on flood protection and tidal
irrigation, (b) reduce drainage congestion and increase the irrigation
coverage, (c) study and intensify irrigation practices, (d) increase farmers'
participation in construction and O&M, while aiming to improve the position of



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
the women and landless, (e) strengthen agricultural extension activities, and
(f) improve the existin3 data base.
5.       Rehabilitation and Improvement.  The program comprises (a) repair and
resectioning of the embankment, (b) repair of the drainage and flushing
sluices and the installation of slide gates and modified flap gates, (c) re-
excavation of 7.5 km of drainage channels (khals) and 7.5 km of diversion
channels, (d) installation of 120 pipe inlets (25 cm diameter), and (e)
construction of 18 km of irrigation distribution channels with field turnouts,
culverts, and flumes. The works under (d) and (e) would be implemented in
phases, conditional on inputs from the beneficiaries. Tendering of earthwork
would be in accordance with BWDB procedures (para 6). Turfing would be done
by organized women groups.  BWDB staff would assist organized landless groups
to register as D-Class contractors. These groups would take part in the
tendering for earthworks on a competitive basis. Landless groups have been
organized by the NGO Association for Social Advancement (ASA), working in the
area since 1987. Altogether 50 landless cooperatives have been formed, 20
male and 30 female. Each cooperative has about 30 members.
6.       Contracting.  Earthwork for rehabilitation would be tendered
following existing BWDB procedures. BWDB would impose and enforce a
contractual obligation for the contractor to pay the laborers a minimum wage
rate for a fixed amount of work, compatible with the FFW rates.
7.       Maintenance.  Preventive earthwork and structure maintenance would be
done on a continuous base on embankments and structures, starting after
rehabilitation, and would be implemented through EMGs and SMGs (Annex 2, paras
8 and 9). The NGO ASA would be closely involved (para 12). Periodic
maintenance is required for general overhaul and major repair. For
embankments periodic maintenance would be reduced from once in four years to
once in seven years. For excavation work, the cycle would also be seven years
and for structures and buildings 15 years. Work would be tendered following
BWDB procedures. Periodic earthwork maintenance would follow the same
approach as indicated in Annex 2, para 10.
8.       Improved Water Management.  Based on the outcome of hydrological
water level and salinity measurements in the surrounding rivers, additional
pipe inlets would be provided in the embankments. Water and salinity levels
would be measured at least at five locations during the entire program, also
inside the polder, and would start as soon as possible. Data would be
correlated and analyzed. Inlets would be constructed only after Inlet
Committees had been formed and beneficiaries had agreed to make land available
and undertake the earthworks for the inlets and field channels free of charge.
Committees woule; be formed or reactivated for the 17 existing inlets.
Irrigation distribution channels would be constructed gradually over a period
of four years. An experimental/demonstration program would be launched
including construction of various types of lined and unlined channels and
buried pipe systems. The technical assistance team would include about 20
organizers/extension workers who would help form and support the Inlet
Committees. They would also urndertake extension work in irrigation water
management and agriculture. They would be guided by an irrigation engineer,



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
an agro-sociologist and a socio-economist. Water management inside the polder
would be improved by excavation of channels for drainage improvement and
irrigation. The NGO ASA is interested in starting a program to encourage the
purchase of LLPs by landless cooperatives. In this way the cooperatives would
enter the water market. The NGO Proshika has experience in this field and is
willing to advise. Funds would be sought from the ongoing NGO-support program
under Dutch technical assistance or from other available sources. Drainage
sluices would be supplied with sliding gates at the country side to regulate
internal water levels. Sluice Committees would be formed to manage operation
of the sluices. For each three or four sluices, a sluice kalashi would be
appointed and provided with a bicycle.
9.       Agricultural Extension.  Agricultural extension activities would be
supported by the introduction of farm demonstration plots within the polder.
Each extension worker would at least supervise one plot.
10.      Monitoring.  In order to understand the lack of development and to
establish a base for monitoring, a baseline survey would be undertaken during
the first year of the project, as specified in Annex 5. Crop cuttings would
be done annually and, as a reference base, also in surrounding polders. A
data base would be set up to monitor the functioning of the Inlet Committees
and Sluice Committees. Rainfall and surface water data would be collected and
stored at the subdivisional level.
11.      Timing and Coverage of Proposed Actions.  The rehabilitation and
improvement program is planned for a period of four to five years. O&H and
extension activities under the program would continue up to year six. Repair
and modification of sluices, excavation of drainage channels, and resectioning
of the embankment would take place in the first two project years.
Construction of diversion channels, installation of inlet pipes and
construction of irrigation field channels would take place in years two
through five. EHGs and SMGs would be formed in project year two. Inlet
committees would be formed during the first three years, 130 or so in total.
They would be formed after topographic delineation of the command areas and
only after the farmers had declared their willingness to participate in
construction. The planned 120 new inlets would benefit about 1,000 ha, or 1OZ
of the subproject area. The agricultural extension activities and the
baseline survey would be taken up during the first project year. In years
four and seven follow-up surveys would be undertaken to evaluate the results.
12.       Responsibilities of Various Entities and Staff Requirements.  Work
under Patuakhali O&M Division would be redistributed so that the Galachipa
Subdivision would only be in charge of the works in Polder 55/1. The
Subdivision would have overall responsibility for the subproject. In addition
to its present positions, an assistant irrigation engineer, an agronomist, and
a socio-economist would be appointed. The staff of the Subdivision would be
supported by a team of advisers (irrigation and drainage engineers, a socio-
economist and an agro-economist) and 20 organizers/extension workers. The
tasks of the experts and the workers are described in Annex 5. The NGO ASA
would continue its present program in the area. It would support landless
cooperatives to be registered as D-Class contractors, support the formation of



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
a Polder Women Committee, assist the Galachipa subdivision on the selection of
laborers for the SMGs, and launch a program to purchase LLPs through its
cooperatives.
Buri Teesta Irrigation Subproject
13.      Background.  The Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject is located in
Nilphamari District. The subproject was designed as a pilot scheme for the
Teesta Irrigation Project and was completed in 1967. A barrage with radial
gates has been constructed in the Buri Teesta river to store and divert water,
and a distribution system has been developed to supply water to 10,000 ha of
cultivable land. The canal system has a total length of 64 km with 262 field
outlets. Some 136 of the turnouts are connected with lined field channels.
The Buri Teesta river, a tributary of the Teesta, has been dammed at the
offtake within Indian territory. The river is now mainly fed by rainfall run-
off. Its catchment area is about 150 sq. km. The river is seasonal with
limited base flow in the dry season. The scheme is constructed mainly for
supplementary aman rice irrigation but the area actually irrigated is much
less than expected. During 1987/88, only 3,400 ha were irrigated in the aman
season and 120 ha during the rabi season. The present cropping intensity is
about 170Z. The poor performance of the scheme is due to (a) adverse physical
conditions, (b) limited water availability and poor water management, and (c)
poorly functioning agricultural extension services.   The main crops grown in
the area are b.aus and t.aman rice and jute and tobacco. BRDB is active in
the area but its program is not directed to foster farmer participation in the
scheme. No financial or labor input was given by the farmers during
construction of the field channels.
14.      Detailed Oblectives.  The subproject's objectives are (a) to design
and implement a proper long-term O&H program with emphasis on irrigation, (b)
study and improve overall and on-farm water management to increase the area
under irrigation, (c) form, strengthen, and support Inlet Committees, (d)
increase peasants' participation in construction and O&M, while aiming to
improve the position of women and the landless, (e) assess the feasibility of
ii -oducing STWs, (f) strengthen the agricultural extension activities, (g)
improve the existing data base, and (h) formulate messages for design and
operation of the Teesta Irrigation Project.
15.      Rehabilitation and Improvement.  The Teesta Main Canal is now under
construction and would cross the Buri Teesta subproject area. The area on the
left bank of the main canal would be irrigated from the Teesta. The remaining
part of the Buri Teesta scheme (6,000 ha) would remain under command of the
Buri Teesta river and would be rehabilitated under the present program. The
program includes (a) resectioning of 11 km main canal and 33 km branch canals
including shifting the embankments along the main canal, (b) modification and
repair of 91 irrigation turnouts, closing down of 45 turnouts and construction
of 50 new ones, (c) construction of 61 km of lined field channels, (d) placing
or replacing of gates in regulators and flumes for better level control, and
(e) construction of three new check structures, two escapes, five syphons for
cross-drainage and one new head regulator-cum-bridge. Lined field channels
would be constructed in phases, conditional on inputs from the farmers.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Earthwork would be tendered according to current BEDB procedures.  Turfing
would be contracted to organized women groups.
16.      Malntenance.  Maintenance would be preventive and periodic, and for
both organized landless groups would be involved. BRDB has organized 15
landless men cooperatives within the project area, with about 425 members
(Bitahin Samabaya Samities-BSS), and five women cooperatives just outside the
area, with 130 members (Mahila Bittahin Samabaya Samities-MBSS). The
cooperatives are two to three years old. For the year 1989/90, BRDB plans to
organize ten BSSs and ten lBSSs within the project area. NGOs are not working
in the Buri Teesta area. MBSSs would be involved in preventive earthwork
maintenance of the canals and embankments and a Landless Women Com-ittee would
be formed (Annex 2, para 8). One woman would initially maintain 1,200 m of
embankment or 1,200 m of irrigation canal, on average. Preventive structure
maintenance would be organized as described in Annex 2, para 9. BRDB would
advise BWDB on the selection of the members for the SMGs. Periodic
maintenance would be restricted to general overhaul and major repair. For
embankments, periodic maintenance would be limited to once in five years on
average. The cycle would be 10 years for re-excavation work, and 15 years for
structures and buildings. Wcrk would be tendered following BWDB procedures.
3WDB staff would assist organized landless groups (BSS and MBSS groups) to
register as D-Class contractors for earthwork.
17.         Improved Water Management.  Water availability at the Buri Teesta
river would be assessed more accurately under the program. An automatic water
level recorder would be installed upstream in the river to measure the inflow
into the storage reservoir. The head regulators would be calibrated and their
operation recorded. Existing flumes in the system would be recalibrated, and
water levels and discharges recorded systematically. Conveyance losses in the
canal systems would be measured and the feasibility of lining assessed. A
water distribution program would be defined. Experiments would be implemented
to study water management at the farm level. A number of alternative
conveyance systems, lined and unlined, would be constructed in a pilot area
and their economic and social implications studied. Introduction of new field
inlets would be taken up gradually, taking the results of the experiments into
consideration. Inlets would only be constructed after Inlet Committees have
been formed. Lined field channels would be constructed on request of Inlet
Committees after they have shown their willingness to donate the land required
and to supply free labor for earthwork and for carrying materials. Masons, to
be provided by the project, would assist the farmers in constructing the first
150 m of lined field channel. Materials for construction of channels longer
than 150 m would be made available by the project in two installments, divided
over two construction seasons. About 20 organizers/extension workers would
form and guide Inlet Committees. They would have a supporting task in
irrigation water management and agricultural extension as well.  They would be
guided by an irrigation engineer, an agro-sociologist and a socio-economist,
and would work closely with the existing staff of the Land and Water Use
Directorate and the block supervisors of DAE as appropriate. The viability of
dry season groundwater irrigation would be studied and recommendations on
integrating STWs in the gravity irrigation system would be formulated.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
18.         Agricultural Extension.  The agricultural extension service under
the BWDB Land and Water Use Directorate is not functioning properly. The
number of overseers is inadequate. There are 27 block supervisors from the
DAE stationed in the area, but there is no coordination between these two
parallel organizations. Under the proposed Agricultural Support Services
project, measures would be formulated to improve the overall agricultural
exte.asion activities. In the meantime, 20 organizers/extension workers would
be provided under the technical assistance program. They would, among others,
organize and supervise the operation of farm demonstration plots within the
subproject area. Each worker would supervise at least one plot. Extension
messages would be formulated by the agronomist and agro-sociologist.
19.         Monitoring.  A baseline survey would be undertaken during the
first year of the project as a basis for monitoring. The baseline survey
would also include a number of Inlet Committees. Their functioning would be
monitored closely and progress indicators would be defined and entered into a
data base. Crop cuttings would be done annually for kharif and rabi crops, on
irrigated and non-irrigated land. A data collection and monitoring program
would be defined and implemented to record water levels and discharges in the
Buri Teesta river upstream of the weir, at the headworks and in the main
distribution systems. The functioning of various field distribution systems
would be monitored closely.
20.         Timing and Coverage of Proposed Actions.  The rehabilitation and
improvement program is planned for a period of four to five years. O&M and
extension activities would continue up to project year six. Resectioning of
the main and branch canals, replacing the gates in regulators and flumes, and
construction of new check structures, escapes, syphons, and a new head
regulator would be realized during the first two years of construction. The
placement, repair and modification of inlets and the construction of field
channels would take place during project years two through five. EMGs and
SMGs would be formed during the second year. About 140 Inlet Committees would
be formed or re-activated during the first four years. The agricultural
extension activities, the baseline survey, the experiments with field
distribution systems, and the water management data collection would be taken
up during the first vear. In years four and seven follow-up surveys would be
undertaken to evaluate the results. A recommendation on the introduction of
STWs would be formulated within one year from the start of the technical
assistance.
21.      Responsibilities of Various Entities and Staff Requirements.  The
subproject would be carried out by the Nilphamari WD Division. The Division
wrould expand its staff with one assistant irrigation engineer, one agronomist
(temporary post), and one socio-economist. Adequate support staff would be
made available for measuring water levels and discharges. The staff of the
Division would be supported by a team of advisers (two irrigation engineers,
one agro-sociologist, one socio-economist, and 20 organizers/extension
workers). The tasks and responsibilities of the experts and the extension
workers are described in Annex 5. BRDB would intensify its activities in the
area, emphasizing the formation and strengthening of BSSs and MBSS. The BRDB
staff at Jaldhaka Upazila would be increased by one Assistant Rural



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
Development Officer (ARDO) and three organizers (two women and one man), who
would be seconded to the Nilphamari WD Division. The additional staff would
be on BWDB's payroll and would (a) support landless cooperatives to be
registered as D-Class contractors, (b) support the formation of the Landless
Women Committee, and (c) advise the WD Division on laborers to be included in
the SMGs.
Financing Arrangements
22.      Civil works for the rehabilitation and improvement program would be
financed by EC for four years, covering about 902 of the total cost of the
program. The remaining 10X would be financed after year four under the IDA
Credit. Preventive maintenance as well as periodic structure maintenance
would be on a cash basis and would be financed up to year four by EC and
thereafter by GON on a declining basis. Earthwork preventive maintenance in
Buri Teesta would be done under FFW on a trial basis. Incremental
establishment costs would be financed under the IDA Credit for the duration of
the project on a declining basis. The experimental/demonstration program
would be financed by GON.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training and Staff Development
A. O&M Training Program
Categories of Trainees.
1.       To increase the effectiveness of the training program, the trainees
would be grouped according to the nature of their job, their educational
background, and the type and nature of the training they would require. Five
groups of trainees are proposed, i.e., Group A: Executive Engineers (EEs),
Sub-Divisional Engineers (SDEs), and Assistant Engineers (AEs); Group B:
Sectional Officers (SOs), Surveyors (SVs), Work Assistants (WAs), Extension
Overseers/Block Supervisors (EO/BSs); Group C: Khalasis; Group D:
Beneficiaries (including Polder Committees); and, Group E: Earthwork and
Structures Maintenance Groups.
Program Content and Methods.
2.       The content of the training program would be based on the results of
the training need survey conducted in April 1988. The lists of topics given
below (para 4) were identified by BWDB managers and supervisors as areas in
which their staff would require training. Further details are available from
the data collected during the survey. The primary mode and methodology for
the courses would be a combination of discussions, demonstrations and field
assignments.
Trainers/Resource Persons.
3.       For each category of trainees and course a number of resource persons
have been identified to act as trainers. They would be provided with teaching
instructions and materials and would be given a small honorarium in addition
to fees to cover expenditures.
Course Outlines.
4.       Group A:  O&M Course and Follow-up Workshop for EEs,SDEs and AEs.
This group would attend a one-time comprehensive training course and annual
follow-up workshops. The course would be nine days long and would be
conducted in project areas like CIP, KIP, Ganges Kobadak, or Thakurgaon in
order that field visits and assignments can be included. The topics to be
covered would include: Concept and Operation of Schemes; Inspection for
Maintenance; Planning and Budgeting for O&M; Surveys and Estimates for
Maintenance; Improved Water Management Practices; Operational Hydrometry;



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
Construction Supervision and Quality Standards; and Relations with
Beneficiaries. Participants would present papers about problems with O&M in
their zone, circle or division and discuss solutions that have been tried.
Field assignments would include inspection of earthwork and structures and the
preparation of plans to optimize maintenance procedures. The content of the
annual follow-up workshops would vary each year and focus on the issues
encountered in improving O&M that are most prevalent and pressing at that
time. The follow-up workshop may include: Review of the Topics covered in the
O&M Course; Discussion of Special Topics; Field Assignments; and, Current
Measures to Improve O&M. Senior managers and staff of BWDB, BARC, BUET, BAU,
MPO and other relevant institutions, both private and public, would be invited
to act as resource persons.
5.       Group B:  O&M Course and Follow-up Workshops for SOs,SVs, WAs and
EO/BSs.  This group would also attend a one-time training course and annual
follow-up workshops. They would attend an eight-day course at the HTI in
Bhagyakul, the IETC in Baradi or at BWDB field offices which have suitable
accomodations. Topics would cover: Concepts and Operation of Schemes;
Maintenance Inspection and Reporting; Measures and Estimates for Maintenance;
On-farm Management; Relations with Beneficiaries; and Operational Hydrometry.
Topics that are common and relevant to all the trainees in this group would be
presented in the first five days. During the remaining three days of classes
and field assignments, the topics discussed would be adjusted according to the
needs of the trainees. Each day would begin with an introduction and
discussion of the day's topic followed by field assignments for individual and
small groups of trainees. The results of the assignments would be evaluated
and discussed the following day. Trainees would have to demonstrate their
ability to organize and plan their own maintenance work and that of those they
supervise. The annual follow-up workshop would last about five days and would
address O&M problems faced by the trainee's division. The emphasis would
again be on hands-on field assignments that would cover actual measurements,
and estimating, planning, and costing of O&M work. Trainers would be selected
from the ranks of EEs and SEs of the BWDB and specialists from other projects,
including BRDB and NGO staff and local consultants.
6.       Group C:  O&M Course and Follow-up Workshop for Khalasis.  This group
would be trained in the field. A four day training course would cover: Scheme
Concept; O&M of Structures; O&M of Embankments; Maintenance Inspection and
Reporting; and Relations with Beneficiaries. Trainees would be required to
identify maintenance problems during field assignments and produce maintenance
reports and records. They would also have to demonstrate the ability to
organize beneficiaries for preventive and emergency maintenance operations.
One-day follow-up workshops would address special topics of interest to the
trainees. The trainers would be drawn from EEc, SDEs, AEs, specialists from
other projects, and representatives of NGOs and various cooperatives and
polder committees.
7.       Group D:  O&M Course and Follow-up Workshops for Beneficiaries.
This very large group of trainees would be trained in the field. The
training, utilizing the training vans, would be conducted in the villages or



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
another suitable location where beneficiaries can be brought together.
Advanced notice of the sessions would be given through radio, BWDB staff, and
other means. Several sessions over two or three days would be held. The
training would use video demonstrations and rely on discussions to convince
beneficiaries of the benefits of proper O&M. The purpose of the training
would be to identify the role beneficiaries can play and obtain their
committment to take on a share of the responsibilities for O&M. Topics would
include: Project Concepts, Awareness and Familiarization; Operation of
Structures; Reporting Damages; Agricultural Extension; and, Leadership and
Motivation. Generally, the local SDEs, SOs, WAs and EO/BSs would attend the
course. Trainers would come from BWDB and be supplemented by local persons
from other projects. NGOs, and BRDB.
8.       Group Es  Preventive Maintenance Training for Maintenance Groups.
These groups would also be trained in the field. The training would be
conducted in the villages, at the site where the work is to be done, or other
suitable locations. The leader of the groups would be responsible for
attendance but the training sessions would also be open to those who would be
interested in joining groups or for already established groups not yet engaged
in BWDB projects. Wide advance notice of the sessions would be given through
available channels. The sessions would cover: Principles and Conditions of
Group Formation; Contract and Employment Conditions; Preventive Maintenance
Practices; Tools and Materials for Maintenance; Reporting Maintenance
Problems; and Supervision. Provisions would be made for interested persons to
register or sign-up for work. Presentors would be drawn from BWDB staff and
local representatives of NGOs, BRDB and local government.
Indicative Number of Trainees.
9.       Table 1 shows the estimated number of trainees by group who are
scheduled to attend the O&M training courses and follow-up workshops. The
trainees would be selected from BWDB staff, beneficiaries, and maintenance
groups operating in rehabilitated BWDB projects which are under O&M. The
number of maintenance groups has not been estimated at this time.
B. Strengthening BWDB's Training and Staff Development Operations.
Appointment of a Director General and two Deputy Directors.
10.      In order to strengthen the capacity and authority of the existing
Directorates responsible for training and staff development (Directorates of
Personnel; and Training, Career Planning, Operations and Methods) so that they
are able to manage the expanded training program and the staff planning and
development activities foreseen in the project, a Director General Training
and Staff Development, a Deputy Director Staff Development, and a Deputy
Director Training Evaluation would be appointed.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Responsibilities, Qualifications and Experience Required.
11.      T.he Director General Training and Staff Development (DGTSD) would be
responsible for all training and manpower development activities of BVDB as
well as the related personnel operations under the Member, Administration.
For the training activities he would manage the preparation of the annual and
mid-term training plans and budgets. He would supervise the work of the
training staff including the Training Director who is responsible for
identifying the training needs of BWDB and for planning, organizing and
implementing the training programs, and the Deputy Director Training
Evaluation (new) who would be responsible for the evaluation of the impact and
cost effectiveness of all training activities. For the manpower development
activities he would manage the preparation of annual and mid-term personnel
plans and budgets. He would supervise the work of the staff of the personnel,
benefit and welfare units including the Deputy Director Staff Development
(new) who would be responsible for establishing the personnel data base and
the preparation of personnel plans including recruitment, transfers,
promotions and special analysis and studies to evaluate and improve staff
utilization in the BWDB.
12.      The DGTSD would be an experienced senior engineer with a graduate or
postgraduate degree in engineering and preferably an academic qualification in
management or economics. His experiernce should include the management of
field and headquarters departments or divisions of large public or private
sector organizations or BWDB and preferably also experience with planning and
budgeting. Experience in managing training would be an advantage.
13.      The Deputy Director Staff Development (DDSD) would be responsible for
the development of a comprehensive personnel development system. Under the
supervision of the Director Personnel he would establish a computerized
personnel data base and prepare annual and mid-term personnel plans. He would
manage analytical studies and surveys to assess the staffing patterns and
composition of headquarters and field units and determine the changing staff
requirements of these units in relation to their workload. He would prepare
proposals for the expansion and/or reduction of the staff of these units
according to actual and projected workloads, work standards, the capabilities
of staff, and personnel policies for recruitment, training, promotion,
transfers, and redundancy.
14.      The DDSD would be an experienced manpower/personnel specialist with
an undergraduate or graciate degree in management preferably with a
specialization in personnel management. Academic coursework in economics
would be an asset. He should have at least three years experience in
personnel management in a private cr public sector corporation or agency. He
should be familiar with GOB's regulations governing the employment conditions
in public sector agencies. An interest in the prevailing employment
conditions in the public and private sector would be necessary.
15.      The Deputy Director Training Evaluation (DDTE) would be responsible
for the periodic evaluation of all training activities of BWDB. Under the



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
supervision of the Director Training, he would prepare annual and mid-term
monitoring and evaluation plans. He would design evaluation instruments for
local and foreign training programs, administer such instruments and prepare
analytical reports on the impact and cost of BWDB training. Together with the
DDSD he would determine the effect of training on the performance of the
staff. The DDTE would make recommendations for improving the cost
effectiveness of tho ongoing training programs and prepare proposals for
effective ways to improve the performance of BWDB staff.
16.      The DDTE would have an undergraduate degree in economics with a
specialization in manpower development. Experience in designing performance
evaluation instruments would be necessary. At least two years of erperience
in evaluation of training programs would be required.



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Indicative Annual Number of Trainees for O&M a/
----------------------------------------------------------------------__-----_
Category of  Projects  Year  Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Trainees    covered     1      2       3       4       5       6       7
…------------------------------------------------------------------------__--_
Group A         4 bl           (10)   (10)+10   20      20      20      20
EEs, SDEs
and AEs.      16 c/                            (15)   (15)+15  30       30
60 dl                                           ('0)  (50)+50
Group B         4              (80)   (80)+80  160    160    160    160
SDs, SVs,
WAs, and       16                             (130) (130)+130  260    260
EOtBSs
60                                             (290) (290)+290
Group C         4              (50)   (50)+50  100    100    100    100
Khalasis       16                              (50)  (50)+50  100    100
60                                             (350) (350)+350
Group D         4             (500)  (500)+500 1,000  1,000   1,000   1,000
Beneficiar-    16                             (150) (150)+150  300    300
ies
60.                                            (600) (600)+600
Total                         640    1,280  1,625   1,970   3,260    4,550
…----------------------------------------------------------------__----------_
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the number of trainees attending the 0&M
courses and those without parenthesis the number participating in the
follow-up work shops.
b/ RIP, MIP, CIP and Nawabganj Subdivision.
c/ Prepared subprojects (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2)
d/ Identified subprojects (Annex 1, Table 3)
September 15, 1989



- 70 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance - Guidelines for Preparation of Terms of Reference
This Annex provides detailed guidelines for the preparation of Terms
of Reference for all consultancy services required during the implementation
of the project.  The contents of the Annex are given below.
(I)  Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
(A) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
(B) Monitoring and Quality Control
(II) Improved Operation and Maintenance
(A)  Operation and Maintenance Directorate at BWDB Headquarters
(B) Improved Operation and Maintenance Program
(III) On-farm Development Program
(IV) Training and Staff Development
(V) Benchmark and Evaluation Studies
I. REHABILITATION AND fDiWkoVEMENT WORKS
A. Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
Scope of Consultancy Services
1.01     The consultancy services would cover the following:
(a) screening of about 60 subprojects (listed in Annex 1, Table 3)
and making recommendations on their eligi'ility for inclusion in
the project according to selection criteria described in Annex 1;
(b) screening of 20 additional subprojects, to be identified by BWDB,
to meet any shortfall in either the number of schemes or the area
covered;
(c) preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering
designs and tender documents for about 65 subprojects covering an
area of about 365,000 ha;
(d) preparation of O&M plans for all subprojects to be rehabilitated



- 71 -                         AMX 5
Page 2
(e) review of the organizational arrangements of BWDB for
implementation of the rehabilitation and improvement works and,
if applicable, recommend measures to enhance the capability of
BWDB field divisions in this respect.
Responsibilities of the Consultant
1.02     Screening of 60 Subprojects Identified by BWDB.  At the beginning of
the assignment, the consultant shall visit all identified subprojects and make
recommendations on their eligibility for inclusion in the project. The
consultants shall prepare brief field notes, summarizing their findings and
recommendations, on each proposed subproject and submit these notes, together
with the inception report, to BWDB.
1.03     Screening of 20 Additional Subproiects.  At the beginning of the
second year of his assignment the consultant shall visit 20 additional schemes
to be identified by BWDB and make recommendations on their eligibility for
inclusion. The additional schemes would be identified by BWDB within one year
after the start of the consultant's contract.
1.04     Feasibility Studies.  In order to carry out the feasibility studies,
the consultant shall:
(a) review all relevant previous engineering, agricultural and
economic studies, reports and data, including studies on any
ongoing or projected hydraulic and hydrological changes that may
affect the subprojects;
(b) determine the technical causes of under-performance and/or
problems, identify all water resources in the vicinity and assess
the potential for modifying the subproject's scope and purpose,
including irrigation and improved water management. This
assessment would be submitted to BWDB at an early stage for
review. The consultant shall then:
(i)  determine repairs, replacements and/or new structures needed
to restore and/or improve irrigation, drainage and the
effectiveness of salinity control in the subproject;
(ii)  determine retirement, realignment, raising and/or repairs of
embankments needed to restore and/or improve flood
protection; and
(iii)  check condition of installed equipment, pumps, gates,
hoists, etc.; propose repair or replacement, if necessary;
consider replacement of wooden stop-log gate systems with
steel or wooden fabricated gates and associated hoisting
arrangements; identify the causes of gate failure in the
coastal belt and mainland areas, and propose a design and an
installation method to prevent failure;
(c) identify socio-economic and other causes of under-performance
and/or problems of the subproject and consider alternative



- 72 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 3
arrangements, procedures and annual budgets needed for effective
operation and maintenance of subproject facilities.   The
consultant's Rural Sociologist shall specificallyt
(i) join the first field visits to make a first assessment of
the people's attitude towards the subproject, their opinions
about its performance in the past and scope for
improvements, and their requests for modification;
(ii) collect relevant subproject information on: population, land
distribution, development plans, and the local government
officials' opinions on the proposed rehabilitation and
improvement works; and
(iii) thereafter return to the field with socio-economic
assistants and interviewers to study in more detail: peoples
attitudes towards the subproject, opinions about its
performance in the past, suggestions for improvement,
possible conflicts of interests, requests for modification,
past and proposed future arrangements for O&M involving the
beneficiaries, and options for involving landless persons
and/or women in rehabilitation, improvement, and maintenance
works;
.d) evaluate all available data and, if needed, collect additional
data related to soils and present land use, cropping patterns,
cropping intensity, crop yields, production costs, farmers'
attitudes, etc.;
Ce) update and refine the inventory of minor irrigation equipment
operating in the subproject area, and determine the effective
area being served by that equipment;
(f) assess the possible negative effects of the subproject on boat
traffic or fisheries, and provide facilities to correct these
effects, if justified;
(g) evaluate, where applicable, the comparative effectiveness and
economies of replacing diesel pump engines with electric motors;
(h) evaluate the efficiency and productivity of current labor
intensive methods and recommend appropriate techniques for
rehabilitation and maintenance of subproject facilities; and
(i) prepare for each selected subproject a draft feasibility study,
including a preliminary design of the rehabilitation and/or
improvement works, a cost estimate and an economic evaluation.
The final report would be submitted to BWDB within two weeks
after receiving comments on the draft report.
1.05     Engineering Studies for Feasibility and Detailed Design.  For each
subproject the consultant shall undertake the following studies as appropriate
at different stages of the work:



- 73 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 4
(a) survey work:
(i)  detailed site surveys of the structures i:o be rehabilitated
or modified;
(ii) cross sections and longitudinal profiles of existing
embankments or proposed new alignments, outfall and internal
supply/drainage channels;
(iii) identification of low pockets and engineering surveys for
improved drainage;
(b) foundation and soil mechanics studies for major structures in
order to evaluate the cause of structural distress or to identify
the requirements for the foundation of new structures;
(c) hydrological assumptions, design-levels, flow capacities and
arrangements of hydraulic structures, including erosion
protection, would be reviewed and amended, if needed (with the
help of computer simulations, when necessary);
(d) study the need and economic justification for protection of
embankment slopes, especially in the coastal areas (with the help
of computer simulations when needed); low cost wave protection
measures such as vetiver grass and reafforestation would also be
considered; and
(e) study, where relevant, the piogress of erosion and/or
sedimentation along riverbanks or the sea shore using aerial
photographs and/or satellite images of different years.
1.06     Engineering Report.  After review and approval of the feasibility
report for each subproject by GOB the consultant shall prepare the detailed
engineering designs, calculations, construction drawings and cost estimates.
1.07     Tender Documents.  The consultant shall prepare for each subproject
the technical specifications consistent with BWDB standards and the
implementation schedules required for the preparation of the tender documents
by BWDB.
1.08     Operational Plan.  The consultant shall prepare a plan for operation
of the gates, pumps and other structures for each subproject. The plan would
include instructions for operation in relation to crop stages, water levels,
weather conditions and, if applicable, requirements for fisheries and boat
traffic.
1.09     Maintenance Plan.  The consultant shll prepare a maintenance plan
for each subproject.  This plan would include estimates of preventive and
periodic maintenance requirements.  The consultant shall obtain relevant
information on the experiences of the improved 0 & M component of the project
and incorporate this information in the maintenance plan of the subproject.



- 74 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 5
1.10     Final Repurt.  The final report would includes
(a) an executive summary, a scheme plan and a data sheet for each of
the 65 subprojects; and
(b) an evaluation of the System Rehabilitation Project as a whole in
sufficient detail to facilitate an investment decision by GOB and
external aid agencies on the subprojects. This would cover the
technical, financial, institutional and socio-economic aspects,
and scope and scheduling of the total project.
Duration of Consultancy Services and Composition of Team
1.11     Consultancy services would be required for a period of maximum four
years, commencing in July 1990. It is estimated that the work would require
consultancy inputs of the order of 115 and 300 manmonths of internationally
and locally recruited specialists, respectively. The consultant's team would
be headed by a Senior Water Resources Engineer and include specialists in the
following areas of expertise: planning and design, hydrology, river training,
agriculture, fisheries, soil science, environment, economics, rural sociology,
and systems analysis. The team would also be assisted by about 145 manmonths
of mid-level professionals, 2,000 manmonths of field staff (draftsmen,
enumerators, asst. surveyors, etc.) and other support staff (secretaries,
clerks, minor staff and drivers).
Reporting Requirements
1.12     The inception report would be submitted three months after the start
of the contract. It would contain the assessment of 60 identified subprojects
and recommendations on their eligibility for inclusion in the project. It
would contain a detailed wotkplan, which would be updated at regular
intervals. The consultant would submit concise monthly and quarterlv progress
reports. The final report would be submitted not later than 48 months from
the date of signing the contract.
B. Monitoring and Quality Control
Background
1.13     A total of about 80 subprojects would be rehabilitated and improved
over a period of seven years. In the first year 16 subprojects, for which
detailed documents (designs, plans, estimates and tender documents) are
available, would be taken up, followed by the remaining subprojects in batches
of about 15 each (see Annex 7).
Scope of Consultancy Services
1.14     The consultant would:
(a) monitor progress and quality of civil works construction;
(b) check and certify reimbursement claims against civil works
construction and monitor disbursements; and



- 75 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 6
(c) prepare completion reports for all subprojects and monitor
operation and maintenance of completed works during the project
period.
Responsibilities of the Consultant
1.15     Inception Phase.  The consultant would prepare a proposal for
ensuring effective supervision during implementation. The proposal would
include (a) a review of the existing capacity of the field divisions to
undertake the work load to acceptable standards and in a timely manner and
recommendations to improve the position, if required, (b) responsibilities of
BWDB's supervising staff (subdivisional engineers, section officers and work
assistants), (c) consultant's field supervision organization, and (d)
responsibilities of consultant's staff, part'>'silarly in relation to quality
control for various types of construction work, such as setting out, driving
sheet piles, erecting formwork, fixing reinforcements, concreting, backfilling
including gravel filters behind protection works, compaction at embankments,
installation of embedded parts, fixing of rubber seals in vertical and flap
gates and the installation of gates. The consultant would also prepare a
format for handing over installed gates from the contractor or BWDB's
mechanical unit to BWDB's field divisions.
1.16     Construction Phase.  The consultant would design records to be
maintained at site and monitor the keeping of such records, including all
relevant data for preparing reimbursement claims. The consultant would assist
the Director, Rehabilitation, in preparing work programs that conform to the
targets established in the project implementation schedule and the approved
Project Proforma (PP). The approved work program would also reflect the
availability of funds in the Annual Development Budget and progress in pre-
construction activities such as land acquisition, engineering surveys and
foundation investigations, detailed designs and drawings, award of contracts
and procurement of equipment and materials. The consultant would also ensure
the availability of reference points for control of alignment and levels.
qtuality control would be assured by enforcing construction procedures and
inspection standards, particularly in excavation of foundations for hydraulic
structures, concrete aggregate and concrete pours, fabrication and erection of
formwork, reinforcements, compaction at embankments, backfill at structures,
and the fabrication and installation of gates. The consultant's field staff
would supervise the work, participate in the handing over process and
countersign the final progress payment. Finally, the consultant would
identify low pockets with impeded or no drainage facilities and recommend
construction of drainage canals and/or regulators for effective drainage of
such low pockets, where needed.
1.17     Monitoring of Progress.  The consultant would establish a management
information system at each of the consultant's zonal field offices which would
be networked to the systems established at the office of the Director,
Rehabilitation. In addition to information on construction progress of each
subproject, the system would collect data on problems, particularly concerning
land acquisition, contractors' performance and progress, and issues on
reimbursements.



-76-                           ANNEX 5
Page 7
1.18     Monitoring of Quality.  The consultant would discuss the findings of
his field visits with the Executive Engineer and the Superintendent Engineer
and propose actions to be taken by them to improve progress and quality. The
field inspection notes would include observations made at the site (also
recorded in the site record book) and decisions taken by BWDB's responsible
field engineers. These notes would be distributed to the Director,
Rehabilitation.
1.19     Maintenance of Completed Subprojects.  Improved O&M procedures would
be introduced in the subprojects, starting one year after completion of
rehabilitation and improvement works. The consultant would assist the O&M
Directorate and its consultants with the preparation of preventive and
periodic maintenance plans for the subprojects and supervise implementation.
The consultant would also update the O&M manuals, prepared during the
feasibility studies, to include any changes and also prepare standing orders
for the operation of regulators in consultation with the beneficiaries.
1.20     Organization and Other Facilities.  Given the dispersion of
subprojects the consultant would set up zonal field offices in Chittagong,
Patuakhali, Bogra and Dhaka and about eight sub-offices, the location of which
would be decided during implementation. The zonal and sub-offices would be
manned by mid-level and assistant engineers, respectively. The consultant
would provide adequate office accommodation for all its staff and residential
accommodation for the internationally recruited staff. The consultant would
also provide vehicles and office equipment and arrange for its operation and
maintenance.
Duration of Consultancy Services and Composition of Team
1.21     Consultancy services would be required for a period of seven years
commencing in July 1990. It is estimated that the work would require about 68
and 200 manmonths of internationally and locally recruited specialists,
respectively. The consultant's team would be headed by a Senior Construction
Engineer and include specialists in mechanical engineering, operation and
maintenance, systems analyals and computer programming. The team would also
include about 336 manmonths of mid-level construction engineers and 672
manmonths of assistant construction engineers and other support staff
(surveyors, clerks, drivers etc.).
Reporting
1.22     The consultant would keep the Director, Rehabilitation, informed on
the progress of project implementation, including any problems which may cause
delay, and proposed solutions to these problems. In particular, the
consultant would submit:
(a) an inception report, three months after the start of the
consultancy. This report would include the proposal specified
under para 1.15, a detailed work plan indicating nature and
sequence of operations and the parties responsible for
implementation, a review of the preconstruction works completed
and any need for complementary or corrective measures, a review
of the ADP provision and work program for the first year of



- 77 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 8
implementation and how these compare with the appraisal and PP
estimates, and formats to be adopted for maintaining records at
the Eield to ensure quality and facilitate monitoring of
progress. The report would also include the methodology to be
adopted for introducing the management information system and a
timetable for implementation of the system;
(b) brief monthly and detailed quarterly reports;
(c) annual work programs to be submitted in time for the preparation
of the ADP;
(d) standing orders for operation of subprojects particularly
regulators; and
(e) proposal for construction supervision at the time of submission
of the inception report, and a proposal for maintenance at the
end of the fourth year of implementation.
II. IMPROVED OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
A. O&M Directorate at BWDB Headquarters
Background
2.01     In 1988, an action plan to strengthen BWDB's organization and
institutional capability was prepared by IDA and discussed with GOB agencies
concerned. The. action plan consolidates major recommendations of several
studies undertaken between 1980 and 1988. It includes the recommendation to
strengthen BWDB's O&M function by providing BWDB's Member O&M with a technical
unit headed by a Chief Engineer O&M. The unit would be composed of an O&M
Directorate and a Rehabilitation Directorate. During the life of the project
the O&M Directorate would be responsible for planning, budgeting, and
implementing the im,proved O&M and on-farm development programs and for
cootdinating the ,loject's training activities (including preparation of the
reimbursement applications) to be undertaken by the Training Directorate. The
O&M Directorate would also gradually assume the functions described in para
3.01 of the main report.
Scope of Consultancy Services
2.02     The O&M Directorate, assisted by the consultant, would prepare annual
work programs and budgets for all project components, except rehabilitation
and improvement works, and monitor implementation. The consultant would also
assist the Directorate with the preparation of a long-term O&M plan and an
initial annual O&M work plan and budget for all field divisions, starting with
four projects selected for improved O&M. The consultant would design and
execute surveys of relevant conditions in the field, design detailed programs
of work, implement the programs in the field and evaluate the results. The
consultant especially would (a) advise and monitor the field teams charged
with improved OEM, on-farm development, baseline studies and training, and



- 78-                          ANNEX 5
Page 9
hold regular progress meetings with these teams, (b) coordinate the annual OEM
program of the entire project, including the rehabilitated subprojects, and
set up a computerized data base to monitor preventive and periodic
maintenance, and (c) together vith the Training Directorate, organize
workshops and other training-related activities.
Duration of Consultancy Services and Composition of Team
2.03     In order to strengthen the O&M Directorate, an internationally
recruited Senior O&M Specialist would be posted for six years, starting in
July 1990. The selected person would be the leader of the Improved OEM and
On-farm Development teams of consultants (paras 2.05 through 3.10 of this
Annex). About 12 manmonths of internationally recruited short-term specialist
services would also be provided.
Reporting Requirements
2.94     The consultant would kesp the Director O&M and the donors informed on
the progress and problems encountered and prepare:
(a) an inception report, two months after initiation;
(b) concise monthly progress reports;
(c) detailed quarterly progress reports;
-d) discussion papers, as appropriate;
'e) a draft final report, two months before the end of the contract;
and
(f) a final report at the end of the contract.
B. Improved Operation and Maintenance Program
Background
2.05     The Karnafuli, Muhuri, and Chandpur Irrigation projects (KIP, MIP and
CIP, respectively) and the Nawabganj Subdivision under Rajshahi OEM Division
have been included in the improved O&M program. The four selected schemes are
at present in good physical condition but insufficient maintenance is being
done. To avoid deterioration and the need for future rehabilitation, an
improved O&M program would be introduced. From project year four onwards the
program would be extended to other subprojects where rehabilitation and
improvement works would have been completed. Details are given in Annex 2.
Scope of Consultancy Services
2.06     In close consultation with the local BWDB staff, the consultant would
(a) review the design of the water distribution system, (b) review the water
availability and water requirements, (c) study the ongoing water management
in the distribution system and on-farm level, (d) define proposals for an
improved operation program and monitor the same, (e) develop and monitor a
long-term maintenance program, (f) increase, to the extent possible, farmers'
participation in OUM activities, and (g) set up and improve the existing data
base on OLM activities in the subprojects.



- 79 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 10
2.07     The consultant would undertake the necessary work to assess and
adjust ongoing O&H practices which would involve (a) topographic surveys and
mapping, (b) hydrology, (c) land classification and flood depth, (d) water
requirement, (e) water management, (f) socio-economic information, and (g)
agriculture and aquaculture.
2.08     To increase the area under irrigation and to improve overall water
management, the consultant would prepare and monitor operational plans based
on the analysis of historic information, and a study of ongoing irrigation
practices in a number of selected sample areas. The operation of water
distribucion at farm level would be studied, giving special attention to (a)
the relationship between water distribution, landownership, and other socio-
economic factors, (b) the efficiency of water distribution and ways to improve
it, (c) the need for further investments to optimize water distribution, (d)
farmers' participation in O&M at farm level, and (e) the functions of BWDB,
BRDB and DAE in improving water management at the farm level
2.09     To develop and implement a long-term O&M program, the consultant
would advise on the introduction of a periodic earthwork maintenance program.
To improve the quality of earthwork under this program and to enhance the
position of the laborers, the consultant would (a) advise BWDB staff on the
contracting system and monitor its implementation, (b) support the BWDB and
BRDB staff on contracting women groups for turfing the embankment, and (c)
support BRDB in enlisting BSS and MBSS cooperatives as D-class contractors.
The consultant would also ensure that the preventive maintenance program is
introduced at a rate of about 25Z of the area per year and assist BWDB with
the introduction in Chandpur of the preventive earthwork maintenance program
under FFW arrangements.
2.10     To study the viability of dry season irrigation in the FCD schemes in
the Nawabganj Subdivision, the consultant would analyze the economic
feasibility of irrigation and assess its technical and social implications.
2.11     To strengthen the agriculturallirrigation extension activities, the
consultant, in close cooperation with the staffs of BWDB's Land and Water Use
Directorate and DAE would (a) formulate extension messages and advise the
farmers accordingly, (b) advise the farmers on water management at farm level,
and (c) train extension workers.
Duration of Consultancy Services and Composition of Team
2.12     The consultancy would commence about July 1990 and would continue
till the end of June 1996.  It is estimated that 483 manmonths of specialist
input would be required, of which 87 manmontbs would be internationally
recruited specialists and 396 manmonths of locally recruited specialists.
During the first two years in KIP, HIP, CIP and the first year in Rajshahi the
O&M organization would be supported by a full-time internationally recruited
Water Management Specialist and a part-time Socio-economist, Agronomist and
O&M Engineer. From the third year local consultants in the fields of water
management, operation and maintenance, socio-economics, and women development
would take over and the internationally recruited consultants would be
employed part-time.



- 80 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 11
III. ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Background
3.01     Polder 55/1 and the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject have been
selected for on-farm development. Polder 55/1 has large but unused irrigation
potential, and is as such representative for an extensive area in the Greater
Faridpur and Patuakhali Districts. The Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject was
constructed as a pilot scheme for the Teesta Irrigation project (500.000 ha),
now under implementation; the scheme still has to yield proper directions for
design and O&M. In Polder 55/1 and the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject,
farmers' motivation and participation need to be enhanced. Details are given
in Annex 3.
Scope of Consultancy Services
3.02     In close consultation with local BWDB staff and the Senior
Construction Engineer in charge of monitoring the rehabilitation program, the
consultant would (a) review and adjust, if required, the plans prepared to
reduce drainage congestion and to increase the area under irrigation, (b)
study ongoing irrigation practicec and develop and test alternative irrigation
systems, (c) develop and implement a long-term O&M program, (d) increase
farmers' participation in planning, construction and O&M activities, thereby
aiming at improving the position of the women and landless, (e) strengthen the
agricultural extension activities, (f) set up and improve the existing data
base, (g) assess the feasibility of introduc!ng STWs in the Buri Teesta
Irrigation subproject, and (h) make recommendations for design and operation
for the Teesta Irrigation project.
3.03     The consultant would undertake the necessary work to asses and adjust
ongoing O&M practices as described in para 2.07.
3.04     To improve the quality of earthwork under theR rehabilitation and
improvement program and to enhance the position of the laborers, the
consultant would (a) scpport the NGO ASA work.'ng in Polder 55/1 and BRDB in
the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject in enlisting labor groups as D-class
contractors, (b) advise BVDB staff on the contracting system, fixing the
conditions of paying a minimum rate to the laborers, and monitor the
implementation, (c) support the BWDB staff, the NGO in Polder 55/1, and BRDB
in the Buri Teesta Irrigation subproject in contracting women groups for
turfing of embankment.
3.05     To develop and test alternative irrigation systems, the consultant
would (a) assess ongoing irrigation practices in the polder and their
coverage, (b) design and implement, on a pilot basis, field conveyance systems
(lined and unlined, surface and buried), monitor their technical and socio-
economic performance, and (c) define an on-farm water distribution system.
3.06     To increase the area under irrigation and to improve the overall
water managem6s.., the consultant would (a) in close consultation with the
farmers, verify the locations where new irrigation inlets have been planned
and assess the feasibility of lining, (b) form Inlet Committees and monitor
their functioning; the Inlet Committees should be a fair representation of the



- 81-                          ANN-K5
Page 12
command area and would be formed only after the beneficiaries have agreed to
make land available for constructing the field channels, and to undertake the
earthworks for the inlets and field channels free of cost, (c) monitor the
construction of inlets and water distribution systems with beneficiary
participation and support their functioning, (d) re-activate or form
Committees, controlling the existing inlets, (e) support in Polder 55/1 the
formation of Sluice Committees and monitor the operation of the sluices, (f)
verify in Polder 55/1 the location of irrigation channels to be excavated or
re-excavated, and (g) support in Polder 55/1 the NGO with its program to give
the landless cooperatives access to the purchase and operation of LLPs.
3.07     To study the viability of groundwater irrigation, the consultant
would, after assessing the groundwater situation, (a) analyze its economic
feasibility, (b) assess its technical and social implications, and (c) advise
BWDB under which conditions and to what extept installation of STWs should be
allowed in the area.
3.08     To develop and implement a long term O&M program, the consultant
would (a) list all physical works controlled by BWDB, (b) make a program to
install km benchmarks along the embankments, (c) prepare a detailed long term
maint-nance program for all physical works involved, (d) advise on the
introcuction of the preventive earthwork maintenance program involving women
cooperatives as EMGs, organized in Polder 55/1 by the NGO ASA and in the Buri
Teesta Irrigation sul-roject by the BRDB, (e) advise on the introduction of
the preventive structure maintenance program, involving cooperatives such as
SMbs, organized in Polder 55/1 by the EGO ASA and in the Buri Teesta
Irrigation subproject by the BRDB, and monitor the program, (f) advise on the
implementation of the periodic earthwork an structure maintenance program, and
(g) prepare operatioual plans.
3.09     To strengthen the extension activities, the consultant, in close
cooperation with BWDB's Land and Water Usef Directorate, DAE and the Upazila
Agricultural Officers, as appropriate, would (a) carry out an annual crop
cutting program, (b) lay-out farm demonstration plots, at least one by each
organizer/extension worker, (c) formulate extension messages and advise the
farmers accordingly, (d) advise the farmers on pest control and water
management at farm level, and (e) train the organizers/extension workers.
Duration of Consultancy Services and Composition of Team
3.10     The consultancy would commence in July 1990 and continue till the end
of June 1996. 't is estimated that 83 manmonths of internationally recruited
specialists would be required and 276 manmonths of locally recruited
specialists. In addition, the consultant would provide 240 manyears of
organizers/extension workers. It is proposed to post an internationally
recruited Irrigation and Drainage Engineer for two years in Polder 55/1 and
for one year in the Burn Teesta Irrigation subproject. Subsequently, local
consultants in the fields of irrigation and drainage, and agro-sociology would
take over, supported by short-term visits of the internationally recruited
specialists.
r



- 82-                          ANNEX 5
Page 13
IV. TRAINING AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
Background
4.01     Since its creation, BWDB has undertaken a program of training to
upgrade and prepare its staff for the different jobs in the organization.
This training has focused on the administrative and engineering skills of the
higher and middle level staff.  With the increased responsibility for O&M and
rehabilitation there is a need to refocus training on the skills required for
these activities. Also, because of the nature of O&M and rehabilitation,
which depends critically on the involvement of middle-and lower-level staff as
well as beneficiaries, the training program would need to be extended to these
groups. Finally, in view of the high cost of training and the use of training
for staff motivation, upgrading and promotion, it is necessary to undertake
regular evaluations of the impact of the training on the performance of staff.
4.02     Assistance would be provided under the project to strengthen BWDB's
Training and Staff Development functions. A Director General (DG) would be
appointed to manage the expanded training and staff development activities.
He would supervise the existing Directorates of P,irsonnel, and Training and
Career Planning, the Engineering Academy in Kaptai, the Hydrology Training
Institute in Bhagyakul, and the Irrigation Extension Training Centre in
Baradi. He would assure that the new activities are coordinated with the work
of other Directorates that deal with staff matters. In addition, a Deputy
Director (DD) for Staff Development and a Deputy Director for Training
Evaluation would be added to the Directorates of Personnel, and Training and
Career Planning, respectively, to help implement the improved training and
staff development activities. The DG would be responsible for the following
new tasks:
(a) developing comprehensive staffing plans showing the optimum
allocation of all categories of staff to headquarters, and zonal,
circle and divisional field units in relation to the workload of
these units;
(b) undertaking the necessary analysis to design measures to deal
with overstaffing and surplus categories of staff including
improved procedtres for promotion (based on performance),
rotation, transfer and retrenchment (to improve staff morale);
(c) designing and conducting new training programs for BWDB staff,
beneficiaries. and the maintenance groups in OSM and
rehabilitation; and
(d) undertaking, for the first time, evaluations of the ongoing and
new training programs to determine their benefits in terms of
improved performance of staff in relation to the cost of the
training.



- 83 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 14
Technical Assistance Requirements
4.03         To assist the B8WDB with these activities, many of which are
complex and new, the following consultant services would be provided:
(a) Internationally Recruited Specialists. Three internationally
recruited specialists would be provided, i.e. (i) a personnel
management and training specialist for two years to assist the
Director General with the execution of his new functions and
responsibilities, (ii) a personnel specialist for one year to
assist the Director Personnel and the new Deputy Director Staff
Development, and (iii) an evaluation specialist for two four-
month visits to assist the Director Training and Career
Development and the new Deputy Director Training Evaluation.
Total requirements of internationally recruited specialists are
estimated at 44 manmonths.
(b) Locally Recruited Specialists. A team of locally recruited
specialists would be provided to (i) assist BWDB in staff
planning, (ii) produce the training materials during the first
project year, (iii) org.nize and conduct the training courses
during the second and third years of the project, and (iv) design
and undertake the evaluation of existing and new training
courses. Total requirements of locally recruited specialists is
estimated at 150 manmonths.
(c) Study Tours. The consultants would organize study tours to give
the Director General, the Directors of Personnel, and Training
and Career Development, and the two new Deputy Directors (Staff
Development and Training Evaluation) an opportunity to study and
discuss training and staff development programs and issues in
other countries. Two study tours would be organized, i.e. (i) a
three-week study tour to visit water resources management
agencies in Europe and the US, and (ii) a two-week study tour in
the region to study personnel management, for instance at the
International Irrigation Management Institute in Sri Lanka or the
Irrigation and Water Management Ministry in the Philippines.
Execution
4.04     The personnel management and training specialist and the personnel
specialist would be required from the beginning of the project to assist BWDB
with the development of the staffing plans for the four schemes selected for
improved OWM. They would also assist with the development of staff
utilization standards (e.g. miles of embankment per khalasi) and the
improvement of existing job descriptions or the development of new ones. The
specialists would design the methodology for the quantification of divisional
work programs and staffing requirements on the basis of the staff utilization
standards and job descriptions in order to arrive at optimum staff



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 15
utilization. They would compare existing staff allocations with optimum ones
and undertake socio-economic and employment studies to determine what can be
done to eliminate staff imbalances. The methodology developed for optimum
staff utilization would eventually be used to prepare staff plans for all BWDB
divisions. In undertaking this work the specialists would work closely with
the BWDB staff and utilize the assistance of local specialists, if necessary.
4.05     The personnel management and training specialist would also assist
the Director of Training and the Director6 of the (aptai Engineering Academy,
and Bhagyakul Hydrology Training Institute with the design and implementation
of all training programs. In addition, he would manage the loral specialists
who would design and develop the new O&M training programs for BWDB staff and
beneficiaries and the Rehabilitation training program for staff and the
preventive maintenance groups.
4.06      The training programs would be based on similar programs which have
been developed in other projects (e.g. the Pukka Maintenance Groups of the
Rural Employment Sector Program in Faridpur, Madripur, and Kurigram Districts)
and overseas. Qualified teaching staff would be drawn from among the BWDB
Staff, research institutes, universities and consultarxts. In principle each
category of trainees would participate in an O&M/Rehabilitation course and, if
possible, in an annual follow-up workshop. Appropriate :earning materials,
including picture-based materials for illiterate trainees and video-based
materials for field training of groups would be developed for the programs.
The training would emphasize practical, hands-on experience (e.g. hydrological
measurements, interviewing farmers, forming groups, calculating sections,
repairing gates, etc.) for all types of trainees. Two mobile training units,
equipped with audio and video, would be provided by the project.
4.07         The training evaluation specialist would assist the Director of
Training with the development of course and program evaluation instruments and
the methodology to conduct a periodic cost-benefit analysis of the training.
The focus of the evaluations would be the assessment of the relevance or
usefulness of the training as experienced by the trainee, the impact of the
training on the performance of the trainee as experienced by his supervisors,
and the cost of the training in relation to other alternatives. The
specialist is expected to assist also with the development of general
performance evaluation systems which would be used in conjunction with the
staff plans, job descriptions, promotions and retrenchments, discussed above.
Reporting Requirements.
4.08     The consultant would prepare and submit the following reports: (a) an
inception report after two months, detailing the consultant's proposed work
program, (b) a report, after eight months, on the methodology and issues of
developing work programs, work standards and staff assignments and the
application of this methodology to the staffing of the four schemes selected
for improved OEM, (c) a study after 16 months of staff transfer, rotation,
retirement and other methods of staff development and retrenchment in the
context of BWDE employment conditions and contracts, (d) detailed plans after



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 16
five months for the production of training materials, their verification and
field test, and the cost of producing and distributing the materials, (e) a
report after ten months on the selection of training sites and the method of
conducting the various training courses including the selection of trainees,
(f) a guide after 18 months for methods and applications of training and
performance evaluation, and (g) monthly and quarterly progress reports.
V. BENCHMARK AND EVALUATION STUDIES
Background
5.01.    Bencbmark and evaluation studies would be undertaken in the
following subprojects: Buri Teesta Irrigation, Polders 64/1A, 64/1B, and 55/1,
Pagner Haor Boro Protection, Sangu River Bank Protection, KIP, MIP, CIP, and
one of the seven FCD schemes in Nawabganj 0 & M Subdivision. The first six
subprojects would be rehabilitated during the first one to three years and
programs of improved 0 & M would be introduced thereafter. Programs for
improved 0 & M would be taken up from the fist project year in KIP, MIP, CIP,
and in Nawabganj 0 & M Subdivision. A program of on-farm development works
would be implemented in Buri Teesta and Polder 5511. The studies would cover
the engineering, agricultural, and socio-economic aspects with a view to
assessing the project's impact and drawing lessons for similar future
operations. The baseline survey would be completed during the first project
year and two impact assessment studies in the fourth and seventh project
years, respectively.
Benchmark Studies
5.02     Benchmark studies would be conducted with the objective of
providing or verifying data on engineering, agricultural and socio-economic
aspects prevailing prior to the rehabilitation and/or the introduction of
improved 0 & M in the subprojects. The engineering data would include
details on inventory and the operational condition of existing flood control,
drainage and irrigation facilities (including privately owned irrigation
equipment), the incidence and impact of flooding in the subprojects and
adjacent areas, and the extent of past relief efforts, including Food-for-Work
(FFW) programs, for rehabilitation works following floods. An assessment
would be made of the potential for future development, particularly of
irrigation, through modification or expansion of existing facilities. The
agricultural and socio-economic data would cover cropping patterns,
cultivation practices, use of inputs, crop yields and production, livestock
and fisheries activities, land distribution and fragmentation, land tenure
system, cost of production, income levels for various groups of project
beneficiaries (including landless laborers), marketing channels, formal and
informal groups of farmers and their activities, and other local institutions
serving agriculture and their effectiveness. Detailed information would be
collected or verified on agricultural losses during the last five years due to
malfunctioning of existing infrastructure or exceptional floods. Possible
underperformance of existing irrigation facilities and the technical and/or



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 17
socio-economic causes thereof would also be investigated during the study.
Priorities for development, as perceived by the farmers, would also be
ascertained. A substantial part of the information would be available in the
project preparation documents, while the balance would have to be collected
through interviews with farmers and landless persons (both men and women),
local leaders, and representatives of support agencies.
Evaluation Studies
5.03     Evaluation studies would be undertaken in order to assess the
effectiveness of project activities and determine their impact on agricultural
production, farm incomes, and farm level employment for different categories
of people (landowners, sharecroppers, landless laborers) in the subprojects.
To that end all relevant information collected during the benchmark surveys
would be updated using the same samples, to the extent possible. The studies
would specificallyt
(a) identify technical causes of any under-performance of the
subprojects related to inadequacies in planning, design,
construction, operation and maintenance and recommend
rectifications and/or additional works to improve efficiency;
(b) identify any organizational or budgetary constraints and
management problems with 0 & M and other causes of under-
performance of the subprojects, and suggest alternative
arrangements, procedures, and financial provisions for effective
0 & M;
(c) identify the potential for further development, particularly of
irrigation, and propose appropriate modifications of scope and
purpose of the subprojects;
(d) examine the contributions of various support services, i.e.,
agricultural extension, credit institutions, input supply
agencies, and recommend measures to improve their effectiveness;
(e) examine the farmers' involvement and participation in the use and
maintenance of project facilities, particularly with regard to
the program of on-farm development works, and recommend measures
to increase their involvement, if necessary; and
(f) examine changes in the positions of landless laborers and women
and recomnend actions to improve their situations.
Execution
5.04     The procedures for conducting the benchmark and evaluation studies
would be similar. Most of the information required to assess the subprojects'
engineering aspects would be on file at BIWDB (feasibility reports, engineering



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 18
documentation, 0 & M manuals). The engineer of the study team would
complement the available information by his own observations and through
discussions with BWDB staff concerned and the farmers. Most of the
information on agricultural and socio-economic aspects would have to be
collected through field surveys.
5.05      It is envisaged that the field surveys would be undertaken in two
phases. During the first phase the study team would collect relevant
information from statistical sources and agricultural support services
operating in the subproject areas. The study team would also conduct group
interviews with village leaders, farmers and landless people in a
geographically well distributed and representative sample of about 25
villages. Separate interviews would be held with groups of women. In small
subprojects with fewer than 25 villages, group interviews would be held in all
villages. During the benchmark studies the respondents would be asked to
discuss their expectations of the subproject, both positive and negative.
During the evaluation studies an assessment would be made of changes due to
the subproject, both qualitative and, to the extent possible, quantitative.
5.06     During the second phase, detailed interviews would be held with about
150 farm households in three villages in each subproject. In each survey
village a stratified random sample of about 50 farm households would be
selected on the basis of farm size and land ownership status. Factual
information would be collected on all relevant aspects which should be
sufficient to prepare typical pre-project (benchmark studies) and post-project
(evaluation studies) farm budgets and to estimate the economic rate of return
on rehabilitation and improvement works. The farmers' opinions would be
sought on subjects such as (a) planned or actual changes in cropping patterns
and practices due to the subproject, (b) any problems due to the subproject or
not covered under the subproject and measures taken or proposed to solve these
problems, (c) assistance received from GOB support agencies, and (d)
participation in 0 & M and on-farm development works and suggestions for
improving existing or proposed arrangements. About 201 of the respondents
should be women (to be interviewed by female surveyors) in order to assess
changes in their position due to the subproject.
Schedule of Surveys and Composition of Study Teams
5.07     The consultanting firm, to be recruited internationally for the
improved 0 & M and on-farm development program; would also be responsible for
undertaking the benchmark and evaluation studies. An internationally
recruited evaluation specialist would be provided for a total of 12 manmonths,
of which four months during the benchmark studies and eight months during the
two evaluation studies. The assignment would be for two months at the
beginning of each study to organize the work programs and two months at the
end of the studies to help consolidate the study team's findings and
recommendations in concise draft reports. The surveys would be undertaken by
a team of locally recruited experts (u.4iversity staff and students or
cnsultants) under a subcontract with the internationally recruited consulting
firm.  The studies would be undexi-ken cver twelve month periods during



- 88 -
ANNEX ;
Page 19
project years one, four, and seven. Given the number of subprojects to be
studied it is proposed to divide the local consultant team into two or three
sub-teams. Total requirements for the three studies are estimated at 288
manmonths local professional staff in the following discipliness socio-
economics, agricultural economics, engineerivg, agronomy, operation and
maintenance, and rural sociology (male and female). The team would also
require support staff, including surveyors (male and female), statistical
officers, enumerators, data processing officers, and field supervisors.  The
consultans would provide their own transport, office accommodation, equipment,
and report printing and reproduction.
Reporting
5.08     The consultant woull submit the following reports:
(a) an inception report within two months after the start of the
studies; the report would include comments on the terms of
reference, work plan, method of execution including the names of
all staff to be deployed, etc;
(b) brief monthly progress reports and detailed quarterly progress
reports within two weeks of the end of the reporting period;
(c) one draft final report for each of the benchmark and evaluation
studies which would summarize the main findings and
recommendations for all subprojects, one month before the end of
the studies;
(d) one final report for each of the studies at the end of the
assignment; and
(e) lists of surveyed farms with location and addresses for possible
reidentification for subsequent studies, questionnaires and work
files, with all relevant subproject information collected during
the studies, together with the final reports.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Cost Estimates and Budget Allocations
Background
1.       At present BWDB is responsible for O&M of over 400 completed
projects, ranging in size from small single structure schemes to large
multipurpose projects. Infrastructure in these projects includes, among
others, about 6,850 km of embankments, 4,900 km of irrigation canals, 6,500 km
of drainage channels, 60 km of revetments, 6,000 sluices, 140 cross dams, 80
groynes, 850 bridges, 225 km of roads and 1,350 buildings and sheds. The main
sources of funding for O&M of these assets are GOB's Revenue Budget and the
Food-for-Work Programme (FFW). BWDB uses up to 90Z of its FFW allocation for
repair and maintenance of embankments and channels in completed projects and
the balance for construction of earthworks in new schemes. O&M of completed
parts of new projects is usually financed from BWDB's Development Budget until
the projects are fully completed.
2.       Funding requirements for O&M activities in operational projects are
estimated each year by BWDB's field staff. The estimates are prepared
separately for esach of the budgets mentioned above and are submitted by the
field offices to successive higher levels of BWDB's management structure for
review and approval. However, at no point during the review process are the
different requests combined into one document showing total O&M costs for all
BWDB projects separately and together. Instead, the separate budget requests
are used as a basis for separate consultations between BWDB management and the
Treasury and BWDB management and the World Food Programme (WFP).
Subsequently, the Treasury and WFP determine their allocations for BWDB as a
whole for the next financial year. BWDB management then distributes the
budget allocations over the various field offices and projects, subject to
approval by MOI.
3.       The process summarized above has several disadvantages.  First,
insufficient guidance is being given to BWDB field staff to ensure consistency
in the preparation of O&M cost estimates. Also, since actual budget
allocations tend to fall far short of requirements, field staff lack the
incentive to prepare accurate estimates. Second, lack of comprehensive and
accurate estimates for each project hampers decision making on funding of O&M
costs and on the recovery of O&M costs from the beneficiaries in BWDB's
irrigation projects. Third, the estimates are limited to the next financial
year only although sound financial planning would require the preparation of
tentative O&M cost estimates for at least the next five years. And, fourth,
BWDB does not r-ztinely update future O&M cost estimates for projects still
under construction. In order to overcome these difficulties it was decided to
establish an O&M Co'st Cell under the Second Small Scale Flood Control,
Drainage and Irrigation Project (Credit 1870-ED) with technical and financial



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
support by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The Cost
Cell would create and maintain a cowputerized register of up-to-date OWM cost
estimates for all new and completed projects. Pending the establishment of
the Cost Cell, two sources of information on OWM costs are available, i.e.
BWDB's own estimates with the limitations discussed above and estimates
prepared by Engineering and Planning Consultants (EPC) Ltd. during the
feasibility studies for this project.
O&M Cost Estimates
4.       BWDB's original requests for funding under the Revenue Budget for
FY89 and FY90 are summarized below (in Tk million):
FY89        FY90
OWM Costs
Electricity and Fuel               155         173
Maintonance                        191         124
Establishment                      387         352
Miscellaneous /Contingency           4          84
Sub-total                         737         733
Other Costs
Arrears from Previous Years         37          55
Taxes                                7          19
Foreign Debt Service                55          81
Joint River Commission and          10           9
Water Investigations
Sub-total                         109         164
Total Revenue Budget Demand       846         897
For the purpose of estimating BNDB's O&M cost, debt service payments should
not be included since BVDB does not generate income to cover the payments.
Similarly, incidental expenditures for items such as the Joint River
Commission and taxes should be excluded from the O&M cost estimates.
5.       BWDB's allocation under the FFW Programme for FY89 was 97,500 m ton
of wheat with a value of about Tk 536 million. It is estimated that about 90?
of the allocation is being used for repair and maintenance work in operational
projects, corresponding to about Tk 482 million. Although BWDB's original
request exceeded the final allocation by a factor of about four because of the
large backlog of maintenance works and the flood damage incurred in 1988, it
is assumed that the final allocation reflects approximately the annual
requirements in normal years.
6.       BWDB's estimates suggest that total requirements for OWM of its
completed projects in FY89 were on the order of about Tk 1,220 million (about
US$ 38 million).



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
7.       EPC Consultants prepared an OWM cost estimate for a total of 4OZ
completed projects. The estimate was based on a detailed analysis of the 21
schemes for which feasibility studies were completed. Unit rates for typical
OWM works were estimated in the course of this analysis and extrapolated to
the 405 schemes. The estimates are summarized below (in Tk million per year):
Maintenance Works                   904
Salaries                            213
Others                              347
Total                            1,464
The category 'Others' includes electricity and fuel for the pumps, operating
and replacement costa of transport, office supplies and equipment, and taxes
(unfortunately, mtst of the expenditure items in BWDB's estimates and the
consultants' study are not comparable).
8.       The total OWM cost estimated by the consultants is about US$ 45
million,or about 202 higher than BWDB's own estimates suggest. However, the
consultantg prepared their estimates on the assumption that BlWDB's staff
requirements would increase slightly and that BWDB would continue the pump
rental programs in the major irrigation projects. Zihe analysis made during
the preparation of the project's improved OEM component for BWDB's major
irrigation projects indicates a relatively large surplus of BWDB staff even
before the rental program was terminated. The total O&M cost of all
operational projects is therefore rrobably somewhat lower than estimated by
the consultants. For the purpose vf this analysis it is estimated at US$ 40
million for FY89.
viM Budget Allocations
9.       BlDB's allocations from the Revenue Budget usually fall short of its
requests, as shown below for FY89 and FY90 (in Tk million):



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
FY89                        FY90
BuDB's   Original    Revised    BWDB's    Original
Request Allocation Allocation Request Allocation
O&M Costs
Electricity and Fuel          155         128          163       173        163
Maintenance                   191          48           48       124         48
EstabliDbment                 387         250          260       352        260
Miscellaneous/Contingency        4         33            4        84          3
Sub-total                    737         459          475       733        474
Other Costs
Arrears from Previous Years    37          12           69        55
Taxes                             7         1           34        19          1
Foreign Debt Service            55         33          185        81        185
Joint River Comnission and
Water Investigations             10         8           17         9          8
Sub-total                     109         54         305        164        194
Total Budget                  846        513          780       897        668
10.      Original budget allocations are commnicated to BVDB at the beginning of
the fiscal year and the revised allocations towards the end, usually in May or June.
To the extent the funding situation permits, additional allocations are made to
settle previous year's arrears (usually electricity bills and staff salaries). The
main increase for FY89 was for debt service payments which are arranged through a
book transfer by the Treasury.
11.      BWDB's revised allocation from the Revenue Budget for actual O&M costs for
FY89 was Tk 475 million (about US$ 14.7 miillion), or about 35Z (about US' 8 million)
short of its own request. The main shortfall was in the category "Maintenance
Works' where only Tk 48 million (about US$ 1.5 million) was allocated against a
demand of Tk 191 million (about US$ 5.9 million). Compared with the revised
estimate of requirements (see para 8) the shortfall for FY89 was about US$ 10
million.
12.      Data for earlier years indicate that the total allocation of funds to BWDB
under the Revenue Budget has persistently been about 30? - 40? lower than its
requests, as shown below (in Tk million):
BVDB's       Original   Revised          Actual
Request     Allocation  Allocation  Expenditures
FY83        411            148          259           266
FY84        415            260          260           296
FY85        511            260          340           334
FY86        623            340          370           405
FY87        641            430          460           463
FY88        749            435          474           483



- 93 -
ANNCX 6
Page 5
13.      Information collected during the BWDB Operations and Maintenance Study of
1985 by IDA staff indicates that BWDB's requirements for O&M vill increase by about
5Z per year in real term on account of new projects being completed. Using BWDB's
estimates of requirements as a basis (paras 4-6), an annual increase in funding of
OxM costs under the Revenue Budget and FFW by 1OZ, in real terms, would be necessary
to achieve full financing of all requirements after about 10 years. If the revised
estimate (para 8) is used as a basis, full financing of requirements would be
reached after about 11 years.



BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule - Rehabilitation and Improvement
P_l YVO                                              PY1          PY2         PY3          PY4          PY5         PY4          P7
MAcl You                                           inSt         1161192      1Ui°         1oom4       111          1t1           _lS7       Kinw
_    8P R        8Ft,                                                    -           -RR  R l  1
1. BUl Te_a ligton                                   -        it  _-`    mu-           tt                       U            N             EC & DA (AIl)
s~~~~ ~~~~ ~SAR              mm-               mm m,mljnb                  Mw  xwmm    mM   ECIAVA (M)
2. Pogor o.m P.ofedb n                           R ai-                                                                           -0        I DA (R. WM
9 8& puR5yj BwdsPff                              SR,R        SR Rmcl      lWt          _  _  _                                  -     _    EC & IDA (All). IDA(M)
4. Coatal Egmnaunt   Prmpd - PoiMi 641WS                                  R RIl _                                 -        __              EC & IDA (AQl). IDA()
e    5. Coastal EmTlmuit Pnjsct - PoaMr 5511         8R,               l  8P,                                                                   EC 4 AA (RU
ruin       m m~IV      1inECN                                             5   IDA (1RI')
SR. PAll                   I       m                                         mmm          54V 
6. Coastal _Bilnfte Proj  - Pokder64/A            I, lR_u__                                                  *       _                     EC 0  IDA (RUl). IDA(M)
-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR All  SR RUl  RU             UN
7. Daad.ia Kaal RexSR. Rn'A                                                   -                    m                                       ID _  _  _ *   _  - _A (R. WA)
8. FPa*lPU Dam     Phase I                             SR., Ra  8 RU. Rual                             m _    _     *   _  _               IDA (R. 1W)
9. Chiandipw Inigalon                            R            ADA R
10. Kto blyw a  RPw Bw* tall                                                    ,_                                                         IDA(R ,I)
10.  lilya,a l~~ivsr SWill ProtectIon  ~SAR      SARl                                         m       m m mmm      mm-         V  A  W
11.Ganlgnai Rime knpbvment                                               RM  - _                                                           IDA (R, 1W
K                                      ~~~~         ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~SMASlRRl  N  N  N
t12. Dhata4tarayanganj.OrJhsa  Dlon                                                                          - P       m 8    m _        m _  _A (R, IUW
11 C19        nwmetPo    Pood-Po39r39t &D           8a   SR R&Rl                           RAI         R_                        7                   IDA (R, WM
4 Coast Emba_aent Pojed - Podklr 59/2                                                                                        we, All  R l   ID (R. AlN)
-m Prol a-w SR                                                                            8RA R                _   _            _           ID (R, MM
-                                       ~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SlR  SR Al Rl  Al        Al7
IS. Cm" Embainr oject- Poder67                        -           -               -         -                       m             _  _       A (RI)
17. 14 Nsfo                                      FS           RS All      FS All C2  FS. Rll C3   Al        l C3 I R      3          C      IDA (R. 11)
and D    to iabo 50000ha                                                                          _  _ _  *                     
18. 3 Nos SPpo  Pdrq Fbod Canb,                  FS           FS RAI      FS, RAI Cl  FS. FA  Cl  RAl    Ci                                 IDA (R. ILU)
n        DraOinap and  Iaton to about 45,000a                                                             m  _  _ *        *   _      m  m  m
Cj                                                      FS           FS, RAI     FS. RAI C3   FS, RAl C4  Ral    C4   Al       C4   R I    C1
'~19. 18. NO tpoSctaPr-vi*dg DrO                                               i    n-                 .f .           ....mIDm.mi                A JA. IIM)
to ot                                                                                         mm    m    mmm
20, 11 kfotm)9ft P8v0!, g kdp    to abttA        FS           FS           FS. ARI     Ral    C2  RAI    C3  ARl    C3 '             C3
3   201 S2akpo6t PoiFl Inliaton lo _a __bout                                                               Si _        NR IU
12,0OOti                                                                                           m    m      m.  .  .             
21. 16 Coassl E nme S     ct Pvi                 FS           FS           FS al C2   FS, Ml         C4  R&:    lR         C4        C      IDA (R. W)
AbUftfillfm:  SR * 9susIr Sao
R        _         n                   _        _                 _       r oo 
FS*-F  N,  -Skb t
C t    bdby a m I*re C4 - Cpld 4 suproject
EC * Erap_  Comnwtl
kar.4860



BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementaton Schedule - Other Components
pit _w                                                               PY3         PY4         PV    .            ...
F  S'_w                                     1301tR1 131K            IWU        13334       134115      131         13_r3       rusi
1. NPUVED OPERATION AND  INTENANCE                                                      _     _                                i nCoC: EC Nuiw1and
twaful brigdminOsnun:A
Chaxf r%O
N S P
Z ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT                                                                                _p bir__wo Coa: Nia.ds
Biu Teess Iniglan                                                                                                           Maftmm Coma: EC & IDA
CEP - PokaWt 55                                                                                                             OpsFdd Cafs: IDWA
3. TRAINING AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT        .                                                                                    Fm   4 Yms: EC
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                       Femdig 3 Yas: IDA
Cons>ucy Seices for:
FeaIy Sluies                                                                                                              EC
Mndcatg and Oulty ConXd                 mmNsfrds
bpmwd Ope.affa and Maln_                mm mm                              mm                                             Nu
On Farm DevMopment                           m      mN dands
Trann and Staff Deve_pm                                                                                                    EC
Bench Mark and Evaabn SWcies and PCR    m           mm
_NA5aSoc



INIM S15110A EIMIIT*T1UN FREMT 
Table 1. WtOILI1TITU VW31  (PROES~) - 331 91157  MIWAIM - Oft9. I3815 TO 10.00  Hi
letallyd Cat Table
(TXI '0)
Oantits                                              has costs                                       Tatals Includart Cmotinagmcnt
un,it   PYI PY2 PY3 PT4 PTPY6PTTotalCost  PYI                     P72 93     PY4      P95   PY6 PY7Tool   "1    M9            FY3      974     M75   97697   TOtal
A. UWiS US DW.UIT[M-                                                     - -                -           15.0   20.0    15.0         -        -   - -        53.0  27.3   2 5.2    210.3       -            - 
EUM1     MINw CMSt (it R)                 ION N3      -  4a  45  ci  15   -   -  150   21            -  94.0   94.0   945.0   315.0   -   -3.159.0             - It 139.2 1.2731  2.W6.6   437.3 1           4,322.7
fAliNm    SD 3=      Mt 331               10003)  m   3  - 4.0  4.8 4.8  1.6    -   -   16   '2       -  153.6   153.6   15336    51.2 - -           512.0    -  13.3   207.7    W.3    79.3                   M  3.6
13RI. 01121  miii,                           No       - 15.6 15.6 15.6 5.2   -   -   52    5         -   73.0    18.0    73,0    26.0   -   - 263.0            -   932    105.5   U2129    40.3   -             5.1
fuIC.1RI  FMDJC*IL                        100302      - 7.5 7.5  7.5  2.5    -   -   25   10         -   75.0    75.0    15.0    25.0 - -            230.0          94.4   101.4   103.5    33.7   - - 34a,1
FARM  60115 TO FULI   8 EMIlATI            NO        - 5.4  5,4 5.4  1.3    -   -   18   60         -  324.0   324.0   324.0   100.0   -          I 1,03.0   -   07.7   433.2   463.9   167.2   - -1.43312
XRU     SITEM       70 W1LMT                 No       - 30  30  3010-    - 100 0.2                    -    6.0      6.0     6.0      2.0 --           20.0    -      7.6     3.1     8.7      3.1 --           27.4
Wh-Ota  sI up n         I.JIUIS                                                                         - 1.531J  1.91.6  1P.53d   527.2   -   - 5,2720             l ,990.3 2,139.2  2,203.9   316.4           MM 723.
2. URTNOUMS - FF1                            100033      - 7.5  7.5  7.5 2.5   -   -   25   10          -   75.0    75.0    75.0    25.0    -   -   253.0         -    4.4   101.4   103.5       3.7    - - 36.1
33TOtal CIMVMI  SP 31C31  FILMC  SERVCES                                                                    l 16%6.6  1,656.6  1,65.6   552.2    - -5422.0          -2,084.7  2,240.6  2,397,5   05.1    - -7.771.8
C. CIVI MM.SuFMOD SERVCE
iBmTO USiICon  MWSg 5---                                             --   --  -    -               45.0 105.0          -       -        --   -        19.0 52.0 132.1                    -       ---134.1
MIEL M "   Esu 59                                       -           - -       - -      - -        - 140.0  230.0   230.0         -                       0.0 161.7  352.4   373.7                                 M       9.3
WilE 7 TOERANK  50C3   SYR.                     No     3.4 5.1  8.5 -        - -   -       17    2   6.8   10.2    17.0                   - - -    34.0  7.9   1'2.8   'J.0 a                           - -        3
WIowaTo UEMEZ  on                               N        2  2…-- - - -                      435 70.0    70,0             -       -        - -   - 130K.?   83.1                   -        -       -         - 143.9
ElSIE To ES. sum21                              N      1.2 1.2' 0.6   -   -   -   -    3    5   6.0    6.0             3.0       -        -        -    15.0  6.9    7.6        4,1        -            - -        3.
SDTota CIVI i 1,IIM     113911                                                                         267.8  471.2   300.0         -        - -        1,390 309.33  5930   405.8           -        -   -   - 1I333
L. CIVIL    - NW=FCTIS  MS MW019
K03 SIDEIW    (6 as)                        six       -    -…- -- -- -1.10.0  1430.0  1,110.0    - -3,030.0    -                                                      -1,51.3  2,41.9  1,713.9    -   - 5.362.1
mm mm   MD  1335                           No       -   - 1.5   2 1.5    -   -    5  350           -            25.0   700.0   52.0              1 -   1.758             710.1 1.013.1   313.0   -   - 2,536.1
316Tocal slUlEl-                                                                                               -  ,3502,0. 1        ,632.0M fM  -        545.0    -     -2,211.4  3,250.?  2o.O3.    -   - 7*391.2
2. ETMIIW - 89V
1311313N  MM12  - FFV                        KR       -   - 7.5  10 7.5   -   -   25  170                       I  1275.0  1.700.0 1,275.0 -     4,25,3       -          1,724.5 2,460.3  1,974.4    -   - 6,159.1
EMIiWI M  CMSd63 KR)) - FF3                  IN       -   - 19.5  26 19.5   -   -   65  310          -       - 6.045.0 8,060.0  6,045.0     -    20P,19,0    -        -3.76,1 11,664.6 9.360.3    -   - V209.231
3*Tota EOMNIW   - FFV                                                                                              7#32.0  9,760.0  7,10.0O            24,403.0             9.900,6 14,124.8 11.33.2   -       MUM.30.
b-TtI CMVI m  - NmuSIJCT           MU INWOO0IEC                                                                       MA 95. 11,940.0 3,95.0   - -29,353.0    -              I's2.120 1729313.37.0    -          43,253.?
E.   IIEUM  MB 311311T10                          sRI…-- -                             - -33.9  257.7 1.311,2  19631.6  1:-140,9   -   -4,75.3 35.6  294.0  1.612,.2  2.146.6  1.606.0    - -5695,4
Tgg mijgyf Cam                                                                                            116.7 MOM5,  MUM37, "n220.2 109643.1   -          0,836.3 362.;1 2,97.6 16~.390  21,323.8 16323.1   -      57PM3.7
Tota                                                                                                       316.7 2,405.5 12,23.8 15.228.2 10,648.1   - -40,336.3362.3 2,97.4 1633?2,2.  6#M,il                         57M.92?
Fotnuus 51990 17105



NO Ym1           ILUATrN FPiT
TArl 2. IuUoI T6T(          IP7ME) - PAM    H    -   P TEOIC I If. DP. TO 23.0 0
Mailed bat lable
(11 '000)
Ibnntiv                                                   kw csts                                        Tos Irfluib  C"m wifO
Mdt   m   M2  PV3 P14   s  PY6 Pn      7         [hit Cast   P"      PY2      P13      Pr4  ns5 Pn      7    dtotl    Pyl    Pm2      m        PY4   M   PTA PT7  T0t51
m .            . .1ml-                                                .           n _ _  _ _                                     n  i .f.               _        e  - '
L  L     lWDIIIU                                 rA        -  50  50   -   -   -   -   100              s0        -  4,000.0  4,00.0        -   -   -   - 9.40.5 - 5.033.6  5.410.2                 -   -   -   - 30,443.1
. - DI            I sIUrTI                       SE                          - -    -    -     -    -    -   -  25.0    25.0                                    50.0   28.9    31.           -       - -           - -   0.3
to CIVI   -   - KOEX? EDVIC
-OATI  OK  O( IKN) - FF3                    10000   23.2 37.6 22    -   -   -   -    4                15   423.0   56.0    423.0         -   -   -   -  1,410.0  43.6   709.7   572.1            -   -          - 1*770.4
TOtl CIMILW    - REMs  EMVICS                                                                                 423.0    54.0   423.0         -   -   -   - I,410.0   43.6   709.7    72.1            -   -   -   - 1-770.4
3. CML WMl - SM5  ElCES
IEImr  UEscr     (23 0)                     10 I    6.9  9.2  6.9   -   -   -   -   23                21   144.9    193.2   t44.9        -   -   -   -   413.0   U7.4   243.1   sn6.o             -   -   -    -   40.5
7T15  90115113  E                           100952   1.1  1.4  1.1   -   -    -   -  3.5              90    44,5   126.0    04,5         -   -   -   -   315.0  lo0.1   153.6   127.3                                395.
1 Totl  CII   -   - WuEIID  5         0                                                                       29.4   319.2   239.4          -   -   -   -   7Mo0  276.5   401.7   3=3.8             -    -   -   - 1,092.0
E. CIMVEW  -   ICATIUI t  MEES
WIEISCUPIE NstIEND(23 XN                    100093      -   1u   3   36   -    -   -    90           21        -   378.0   756.0  75.0    -   -   -                          475.7  1.022.5104.1 - -             - 2W592.3
KE3UTi  893                                    00      0O1 0.3  0.4  0.2       -   -        1    12000  1u200o0  300.0  4,00   MOM240         -   -   - 12,0000 1,336.0  4,5302  6.C..2 3473.3    -   -   - 15.3.7
DREhA      4 V                                 ID     0.1  0.3  0.6    -   -   -   -               7,00    700.0  2100.0  4.2000         -   -   -   - 7,000.0  300.  2,642.6 5,600.7             -   -   -   - 91,3.
PIKr Rim                                       N         - 6.2 12.4 12.4    -   -   -   31           s0        -    96.0   992.0  992.0    -   -   - 2.4300             -   624.2  1,341.7 1435.6    -   -   - 39W.40^5
1mT      ealm CIL      - IFC*Tm?   I r1U3       T                                                            1.900    6,574.0 10,76.0 4,148.0    -   -   - 23.370,0  M1945  8.272.7 14.537.1 6,003.1    -   -   - 31907.4
F. 9    1EDI  A MSI* TI0                        SiWl       -    -    -    -    -     -    -       -           310.5   097.9  149.2  497.0    -   -   - 3,075.4   326.0  1.027.2  140.63     44.9    -    -   - 3,914
TOtal ISrSTE   CaSTS                                                                                           2,097.9 1230.1 16779.6 4645.9    -   -   - 36.703.4 3,314.5 IS76.4 224'.0  667.9                  -    - dI?,n s
Tota                                                                                                            2,997.9 12,30.1 1 9,.6  ,645.8    -   -   - 36.703,4 3,314.5 15,46.4 22526.0 6657.9    -   -   - 47.975S
_ * _ __ sa s-  m -   - rc ra=0= -ss  -,                                           rv s  ss  s
m_.  _a__t,    _.a a_a  s__ .a               s  .at nan.. .   . f...   .. .....           an ........
F*b"  5# IWO  V7105



_  SmI  IEIE    ILtIU  C IIOECT
Tr  S. inz1zriM    cFT t) * T  on lIwU  Ar immi /a
MaI led Ct Table
(1K '0f)
hmutit                                                 kw. costs                               Total, Zacldal cmmtiiila
bit    M   P12  M3 r4 "5 n1  P7 TOtWl bit Et   Pm                     M     Pm3 m    M   P1  PY7  TOal    "I           m       M1  m4   5 PM   6   7  Ttl
- m
a.  _3 - cm13 mm
VAIn  M151111 PEITIECP    am                10 N3   0.9  1.3                             2.2      1.00      M2A3  I39.2    - - - -             -    2.3320 1,077.4  1.70.1                         - 2.13
m      i m    a tu 3 M)                       a         -    -    --                       -                120t0   10       -    - -            -    M30.0   1.    235                            - 2-. -1
Sft. Cil VW  - NgENNI  SE 85                                                                                 1,052.3  1,570.2   -    -    -    -    - 2eA2.0 12:2 .0       7.3   -    -    -    -    - 1,29.
to CIM iL BU-IUIVXrATIU   *  IDUUWIS
flMl..                                      lWN3   1.3  72    -    -    -    -   -    9              Si      378    151.2    -   -    -    -    -   W          43.7   1".3    -    -    -    -   -   231.
LDlU                                        101        M    W     -   -   -    - -0. -  44          100      33.    232.0                        -   40.0   101.4   443.    -    -    -    -   -   S.
M  FILTER                                  tlO  a    1.3  5.3    --   4                             94    77t09  343.5    -    -    -     - 3.5S4.4   39.4  3.u0.3    -    -    -    -   - 4P7Y.7
lE NhES                                     1601   N 1.2 60       -                       51 1-040  lo02.0 43.24e.0    -    -    -   -            54,064.0 1267.9 54.423.3                        - 661.1
9sW-104     E CIVILUIFI     U      AI  IW IEH 11.7 4,7 4604.7    -    -    -    -    - 3 a543.4 13.S23.5 3,3.                                                                      -                       40J
C. lEV hI AUIS1M          TI                               -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -              I.SA4  50.7    -    -    -    -   - 7341.0  I67.9  66AU.3    -   -    -    -    -  6314.2
TOei NatalII      Cam                                                                                          14#2929 546223.m                                                      - -   -   -   - 35U^.4 16,91.5 47,570.3  -  --    7.3
_ _  ,muin ,"   , saw _   M= _
Tdtl                                                                                                            142M2, 54.m2233.-                       - 61164 16,347.5 67,76.3    -    -    -    -    - 5,7.
/a   ATECT1111   Fl            . 5 I P3ItE IlUTMI     I S   ILTI.t  LU WiD  AT AM K 70 M     (M23 n )
Fobwm o 190 17St5



11111DmMI 3GOIITATIU PELECT
Table 4, MILITATTU iMS ( PRUD ) MASTM. BSUMWN PRUECT PLOL NO 64/18 /a
htailod Cost T,o4le
(TK '000)
kostita                                                   hai Costs                                  Totas IrtaWir.s Comtiumie"
IhAit    M1   PY2 P13 P14 P15 P16 F17 Total LiMt Cost   "1              P12      P1   F14 PY5 P16 P1?  Total    "I1    P12            P13  P14  M1  P16  M1   Tota
bIAUIUIINA                                                   I    I ~        -                   2        100    100.0   100.0        -         -    - - -    200.0   115.5   125.3                          -     241.3
I.  11M         DU"ITIlM                          a-                                            -                  3.0    35.0        - - - - -    30.0                 21.?    31.5                          -    0.2
re CIVIL - now KM135
E-11113F  Jn IsE a)            1 -  VI01                76.5  102 76.    -   -   -   -  20              16  1P224.143.0      1,nhI224.0    -   -   -   - 4,110.0  1.413.7 .2.0507 1,655S    -   -   -   - 5,12.9
Su-Tutal CIVL  MS- KMiIF            355                                                                         1.224.   l63.01,24.    -   -   -   - 440104 1.413.7 2105.-71,05.5                    -       -.5?2*
to CIVI 0111C3 - NP          VIU3n
1. WEw~ - PA
IIm3oI ESCTOMMI! (47 63) - PA            100N33   262.5 262.5   -                         30--S      21   5.512.5  15412.5                           11--,025ir.0 6,366.9 6.936.0                        -  33.
SbTIda  WIIM   - PAN                                                                                         5,512.5  .512.5-11.2.06,6.9  ..3.?.                                                       - -  3,339
2. SI1I
Raw  MAKES                                  Is          5    5   -     - - - -   to                 130    650.0   650.0        - - - - - 11310.1   750.8   3131.0-                                - -1.07
VW*    inKi   INB                           U         6.5  6.5…-- - - - 13                          100    65.0   M530-- - - - -lw1,3.    710.31   31.0                                                     MM -156
R65 M    035BT6                            a         2.5  2.5  -          - - -           1         00    200.0   200.0--- - - - 4100.0   M2.0   251.                               -              - -         .7
NR=  a  mmN                                 Is        0.5  0.5…-- -1                              2.70    1,0,0  1i.30.0-- -                            -2,70.0 1,559.3  lo"1163I- - - -33.
h-Tdl SINTLIM                                                                                               2#10%.0  IM5.0…5,-700.0-3,291.3-  -.-6-4-6.PO.2
hhTOtu Celm  NME - LUT-M     -OU                                                                                3,362.5  0,362.5…- - - - -16,725.01 9.6.7 MUM                              -        -.…2-   -      -
E. CIVI MM  - ISIFIATIUU A IWUINM
111C53 110 3 FT. I 4FT.)                       U         0.6  1.5  0.9   -   -    -   -    3         1,100    660.0  1.00.    99.0   -   -   -   - 3.306.0   762.3 .2.076.4 1,33.9.              - - -        4,1i7.7
111C15  (IV 5 FT. X 6 FT.)                     No        0.4     1 0.6    -   -   -   -    2         2,000    000.   MOM0. 1,200.0    -   .   .   . 4,000.0   92.0 2,516.3 1o.230    -   -   -   -53.
9*b-Tota CIVImm  -  UIATC6IIU   3ZuUIITE                                                                        1,460.0  MWA0, 2,10.0    -   -   -   - 7430.01 WSJ6.  4,593.2 2,962.1    -   -   -   - 9,241.5
F. eiUSIU  a AMIIEUMTIE                            t                                                  ur321,3.6  1,640.2  409.7   -   -   -   - 3,370.6 1W35.0  1.66.5  503.    -   -   -   - 3,77.2
oTal                T                                                                                             12,500.1 15~409.8 3o02.7    -   -   -   - 31,73.614C 3.  1',204.1 5.121.3   -   -   -   - 3.6235
Total                                                                    12,500.1 15,409.3 3,323.7    -   -   -   - 31.733.614.293.119,204.1 5,121.3 --- --- -----------  ---  3,6----.5
Is  MPUTgCI  FMg FULWs, CICLIC 93015  MM SLIMIhT  IhTWI  910911  FM A 6O096 MDt F 780 NA (NET 570 NA)
Fbnonv  5.  19 0 115



tmble 5. EIMILIATIDU UES I 9111         I WMSTUL rUUW1IIT I'UEC   MM  55/I Is
hUtaled Cost Table
(TX '00)
bmut4t                                                kws  cuts                                    Totals Iowlu&i,rt Cmntianft1as
Unit   M1   M1   PY3 PT4 P15  PY6 P1? Total Cost   P11    P12               PY3   PY4 P1  M1  P17  Total          "11     M1       P3    P14 91   PY6  PY7  ITdal
1. UNEIfE3  cam
A. LiE  AUMBIS3I                                  NA      5.7  13.3     - -            -    - -  19   75   427.5   997.5         -     - - -   -  19425.0    493.3  1,255.3                                      IOW
3, gimEIS    MU ITINTIUI                         Iu                                    -                     50.0    50.0                     -            100.0     57.0    621.9                           -     ".
C. CI VIL mS - WOE'YS? WUM~
W-UCABTIONW       14.5 IN) - FF9            1000 ill    17   34   34   -   -   -   -   35   16   272.0   544.0  544.0               -   -    -   -  1,360.0    314.2   604.6  735.8         - -   -   -    1.734.5
WUJCITffw  PIKEIILMT                           ND        3    6    6      -    - -   -        15   60    160.0   160.0  360.0       -   -          - 9000    20r.9   453.0  466.9           -- -114.
A-Total Cwa       - Kamisw          i ms                                                                   452.0   9004.0   40        -         - -2,260.0    522.1  1,313.6 19222.?                            2.36.3
i. CIMa  ElS*wIin SEwMC
El11  EMIOST                                1000 NI    42   -3       -    - - - -  140   21   062.0 2#=9.0                                        - 24.900  1,010.7 2?.56.                                   3,4.
hCIUEIUAIUENT                               10015       10   10    -      -    - - - 20   21   210.0   210.0                                       -  -420.0    242.1   264.3                              -    mj.
VWA   LINHU    (46 KR)                      I060NS   1.5  MS1,5- -                           63   21   661.5   161.5                               -  1.323M8    764.0   332.4                            - 1.596.
EECTIIU.        nowhEto 1033                                  72     - -       - - -    72   21              - 1.312.0                  - - - - -1,512.0                1,902.7                 - - - - -1196.7
VW I31UAEIJirnNo   4.5 4.5 -                                                - ---9  95  427.5  W2.5-----                                                  . MO0 43.0   M 5.--                    -    -      1-.- 31
M"UIIE SIP LO03 BY 11CL LIrT BATES   U       3-37--                                                75 2,775.0         -    - ----2.715.0 3,20.1-3.21.1.
30E3333*1L31 MU                                          7-                -----7  66 462.0    -   -----462.0  533.6                                                                       - - -J
59P3  FUUIM  UJCET                             M         0    3  -        - - - - 16    39   31    2.0 312.0-6- 24.0    360.4                                               .6A             -   -   -   -   753.
WLAC SAlES FOR OK                              N 93            I  -           - - - - 16    35   20.0  M.13.0…                                -   . 560.0    323.4   35.4-615
"-Tota  CIaVWL=i  - SMIlE, UwI                                                                            6.0nAv10.0  5,461.0…- - - -                  1 I41...0  6,941,6  6#37.1-1.A
E. CIVI lEE  - EHKATBIh   S IUW NSM
91.311  S.IMS                                  Is      1.4  2.8  2.6    -    -   -    -    7  90   1P260.0  2L120,0 2,52.0          -   -    -   - 6.300.0  l.435.3  3,171.2 3,43.          -   -   -   - 3i63.9
VIMJ TlUIVS                     .                        - 115.2 115.2 57.6    -    -   -   26      4        -    W60.   460.8 230.4    -   -   - 1t152,0                S79.   623.2 333.4    -   -   - 1.96.A
COLWT ICM  aml                                           -  24   24 -              -    --   46 10           -    M4.0  20.0        -   -   -    -   40.0                 32.   a24.6       -   -   -   -   626.
FUAE                               No~~~~ -  9.6  9.6  4.8    -   -   -    24   32                -   107.2  W0.2 153.6      -   -   -   743.0           -    346   415.5 222.3    -   -   - 1,624.4
EAImK EXM3SI                                1000 N3      -    40   40    -   -   -    -   30   16            -    M4.0  640.0       -   -   -   -  1.260.0                M 0.4  U65.6     -   -   -   - It671.1
9d-TOta  CIVIL MM  - IUIFICATIIS  I   UVEIUI                                                              1.260,0  4.163,0 4,166.0 334.0    -   -   - 9,9300  1.M.3  5,245.0 5.43.4 33.7    -   -   - 12,393A
F. EINEuu      I *11N23333T1                                                                                932 - - -        .6  1M.27,   606.6  46.1    -   -   - 2,657.3   979.3  1,452.S.  746.4  60.6    -   -   - 5#X.24.
Total IIASITO   CUMI                                                                                         99132,1 12,350.5 5,68.6 430.1    -             6093.3 10,449.7 U6,02.7 7,606.4 616.4    - - -34.700.2
total                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P#132.1l 2rMlJ 5,66.6 430.1    -   -   - 23.033 10449.7 16,025.7 UN66. 616.4    -   -   - 34,66.2  *I
/a  P661F=1   P11311.005 CM=1O  STNE, M  S 30.11  13M31    F3O13R A  M    MD  F  110000NA MU PID' 056111311111    TO AM06I1600A
FiiAas 5. 199017106



us 171 SEIMILITATIS  CMTl
TAU 6# IMILTTIU           i CTPe      I C6TM. ENIUT  UJE             pan  6411 /a
Mle4bUd Cost Table
(T1K '00)
imtitv                                                 mue cuts                                  TotsEllo   ir~di  C.aiugw le,
rit   m   P   PV3 m         Pf P6  PY7  TOtl [IMt Cut   PI    Pm2           M3   P14 P5  P16 P     ll           pl    P12        n3   M4  ns  In   W    Tt
-      fin   =  tar  fi *ns                     a:   _.-   am           mata n    msantItati                              . am  ts.t_           na
1. DNrI  ara
A.       x    tm                                 NA      0.9  2.1   -    -       -    -    -    3     10O      0.    210.0      -    -    -    -    -   300.0   104.0   264.3                                36.2
. 1         as  TUM TI                          g          -    -      -    -    -    -    -    -             50.0   se.0       -   -        -    -    -   100.0    57.8    42.9                    -            .7
C. cm. _t - Sf_ gauy
It. Em - FM
IEU ION       SNIMT - FFm               10 03   76.5 76.5    -         -    -    -    -  153     21  1606.5 1,-0-.5                           - 3.213. # 115.5 2,021.6                             -  3677.1
MIeTddal  -51191MIC - F                                                                                 106.5 1.4-313-   -  MM0  14M.5  21.6                                      -       -    -    -    -377.
2. SINEUTMS
FEwM   St                                   0      2.4  .2.4    -    -          -    -          600  1440.0 120.0    0.0    -    -    -    - 4s00.   13.2 2416.1 194.7    -   -   -   -                   7
60113AU?o                                  NoN    2.5  2.5…-- - - -                    5        110   275.0  275.0…-510.0-    M                            317.6   346.1…64"3.7
IE 110                                     M       02 0.2     -       -    -    -    -    1   20       540.0 2,24.0       -       -    -    -    - …2,0.0   646.6  2,611. 3---                           5.W
InLa5 U.N                                            I   I -          -    -    -    -    2     too   100.0  100.02            -       -    -    -  0.0   115.5   125.0                -               241.3
-TOtl i1leSei                                                                                           2J73075.0 4,5.0 -1440.0    -   -   -   - 630M.0  2,743.1 5,706.3 1,947.    -   -   -   - 10397.6
M tabt CIYIL MM5 -    5lIS INIS                                                                            3.9 5 6t141.5 1,440.0    -   -   -   - 11,543.6  44.6  7728.5 I;97.7    -   -   -   -t4,W-
5. am on - DaC*T?  a amnis
-CTIE UK  (2.4 M)U - FFV1                  1000N3   3.2  6.4 6.4    -   -   -   -   16              16    51.2  142.4  102.4   -   -   -   -   256.6    59.1    13.9  133.5    - -   -   -   3.5
MM13  (1N 3 FT 1 4 F)                         ID      0.6  1.2 1.2   -   -   -   -    I          2.000  1,200.0 2 Jo.0 2.400.0    -   -   -   - 606.# le.6.0  .30.2 3,246.1    -   -   -   - 7M2.3
-T.tl CIML  -W  - NIF?U TIW   I IWUSMIS                                                                    1,251.2 2,5W.4 2,32.4    -   -   -   - 6,216.0  1,445.1  3,149.0 It314.6   -   -   -   - 7,9.7
C. E    ltESNI  I  Mh SMIWO                     sm         -       -    -    -    -    -    -     -           M…63    043.3  473.l   -   -   -   - 2.50O.3   465.6 lZI93-.5  51.7    -   -   -   - 2,40.6
Total IIEET ccIm                                                                                              MOOM6 9947.2 4.415.5   -   -   -   - 2369.3  67.' 12M3M. 5,913.9    -   -   -   - 25.l6.2                            o 
TOWl                                                                                                           6,06.6 9,947.2 4,415.5   -   -   -   - 2036M   64.71.1 12JR.2 5,913.9    -   -   -   - 5,1.2
/   MIPU II  FME CMl2UIC $TM0 I U1                            FM UAIE   DlF     ID-    SIA W 50tO0 Me NDLTIlD  A1 W 46000. NA,M . SI I. 16E6MO. FE TM   T. N M501               OTE STA  M0  :11L.PU1. VW  hM  W
-1 CJ 231UIOD UAIUhI  ?NWICT.
r4..... a. *_ m*



tab le?
-  STITU MIUTNLATI PSECT
Table T 1 SIUTATIN             (NW    AM  Wt 9n9A ) I
1u lIe Cwe Table
hoe Costs                            FordJnxdom
P11     Pn2       PY3      PY4    Pn5   Pn6 P1   Total        z    Amimt
. IESIT  COSTs
At LN  ACWISITINI                   11,571.0 17,175.0       -         -       -   -   - 207150.0   0.0         0.0
t. hS      l INJESTI6ATIONS            167.5    142.5     25.0        -       -   -   -    375.0   0.0         0.0
C. MIILITATION
1. CIVIL ON
E     _M S                     1277m2 26,274.8 13s660.3 13,73.2 10t500.0   -   - 77n30.0   0.0           0.0
STRUCIES                         769.2 19,116,6 12s677.6  7000.0        -   -   - 153,523.6  56.4  866655.0
EATI_  FFV                       770.0  2,737.5  2,107,5        -       -   -   -  5*615.0   0.0         0.0
PROTECTION No                        -  5,900.0                                      3 1 -   5,900.0   0.0  0.0
sthr-TOI CIVIL 1i                146310.4 54,028.9 142,606.1 20v23.2 10,500.0   -   - 242168.6  35.8  86,455.0
th-Tol   I      LTATIO              14M310.4 54028.9 £42W606.1 2072.2 10500.0   -   - 242,148.6  35.8  866655.0
DI IiUROVEIMS
1. CIVIL 111S
MINMRS                         69622*0 23,243.2 14,014.6  3,410.2       -   -   - 47,360.0   0.0         0.0
STRUCTUIES                     3,21O.0 34,33W.0 426i60.0 41,900.0 15665.0   -   - 139,044.0   0.0        0.0
EARTM   sm FF3                 2,55.4  9,421.2 11,612.2 10,261.2 46522.0   -   - 3,4A45.0   0.C          0.0
FROuITiS 1N                          - 30C000.0 30,000.0        -       -   -   - 60,000.0   0.0         0.0
Sub-Total CIVL ion               12,390.4 97,053.4 98646.8 55,571.4 20,167.0   -   - 2638949.0   0.0        0.0
9Total IveIEm                       12,390.4 97053.4 98,46.8 55,571*4 20t1.0   -   - 2349.0   0.0              0.0
S. E11111M       lllS a  MITM        3,226*6 1M149.4    53.3  ,155.4 3612.4   -   - 636.1   0.0                0.0
TotaW   1IE ET                          41U,6w.9 186562 27P212 5,450.0 34,369.4   -   - 6139.7  14.0  f66655.0
""ital CmttinM    e                   366.5 16W9. 2,176.6l  7,6411  3,068W7   -   - 55U643.0  15.6   8,665.5
Price Cantin ins                      29277.3 28975116 63,257.2 29,384*2 15,265.3   -   - 138M35.6  11.6  16,061,8
Tr al                                   47,623.7 232,223.6 W.65.2 122,475.3 52M7034   -   - 112 .3  13.7 111402.3
_1 aws,             b 1 WM - 1b  . Fe _n. tOum lam1. P    tima _, O h          ldr a,    ar   PumwsoM  NW
t                            _i!JSiE             -"1.1   _          1*             U   W Fod. U



MANKADW                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 
TableIs  NW IUTATM    636 SSTEMS  UMUA TATION PUOJICT
Tabl Sm IMIUATIN ElS -IfTWMU  SUWUOJITSo 50 M. IWKITTIS OM3 810,00  N A
Dukelled Cs.. Table
(Th '000)
For.1*n
kwe costs .
P     PY2      Pm       P4        PTs      P6       PT7    Totl       I  boat
I. IlJESIElNt COSTS
A. L    AClSITtIU                      - 1.6t0.0  .8m.o  104300.0  2M30O.0          -         - 24,000.0  0.0   0.0
.   TS  An IWNTStlATIONS               -   615.0  1,320.0  1,215.0         -        -         -  3.150.0  0.0   0.0
C. MBILIT^ATIU
i. CIVIL urns
EMIS                              - 6,000.0  12.9SO00 13,500.0 13.900.0 12700D.0  6,450.0 6S5,00*0  0.0   0.0
S11PJClUES                        - 6,000.0  14,100.0 15,500.0 16*200*0 141lO.O0  8,100.0 74,000.0  0.0   0.0
EARTM       FF                    - 100.0  4350.0  5100.0  5.700.0  3,900.0  1,950.  22t500.0  0.0   0.0
PIECTI11  RIES                    -       -    400.0    600.0    800.0    200.0         -  2,000.0  0.0   0.0
STotal CIVIL MlKS                   - 13.500.0 31,900.0 34,700.0 36.600.0 30,900.0 16.500.0 1640000.0  0*0   0.0
sub-Totl MIWI ATIU N                   -13,500,0 31t800.0 34.700*0 36,600.0 30,900.0 16500.0 164,000.0  0*0   0,0
Do INFIOUCIN
1, CMVtL N
EARTHIS                           - 5*533.0 19,366.0 23,U660 24,U660 21,666.0 183433.0 113*330.0  0.0   0.0
SlIS                              - 7M50    23,400.0 27,200.0 27800.0 26,000,0 21,100.0 133,000.0  0.0   0.0
ERIUs       FFm                   -   900.0  6,300#0 Ih8tOO 10,000.0 10O900.  14400.0 54,000.0  0.0   0.0
PROTECTIW  EIC8                           -    400.0    600.0    800.0    200.0         -  2,000.0  0.0   0.0
Sub-Tot..l CIVIL OIMS               -13,933.0 49s466*0 622660 641066.0 58,666.0 53,933.0 302,330.0  0,0   0,0
SToUal Imrs                            -13,933.0 494 66.0 62,266.0 64,066.0 58t616.0 53,933.0 302,330.0  0*0   0.0
F. FWIjM..dU.IEI      WSIMTI           - 3,65.8  9,850*3 11661*7 i11i9?9 101627.9  8;272.0 55W7M.   0.0   0.0
Totl NAELIE CUST                           - 33013.8 10292363 1209142.7 114,925.9 1001193.9 783705.0 S59217.6  0.0   0.0
Phwsical Contintuins                    - 3*301.4 104223#6  12*014.3 11,492.6 10*019.4  7,870.5 54*921.8  0,0   0,0
Price Continmrin                        - 5,229.4 25481836 41,7154  51,546*7 55#m97 52,960.7 233,070.4  0.0   0,0
Total                                      - 41544.5 138,273.5 173872.t4 177,965.2 166,013.0 139.536,1 8374209.9  0.0   0.0
- -            ue m m  _ mrn=um ..mom= .
/a     14  .  p ldlmK PC A m tf.ilti.." to 50,000 ha.
N8 moo. providing pu'.tms I    ains  tol.o    Salnity ltrulom  a"d luprovd dreialp to 76,000 ha.
lo      providi 1 =M P=       =       and lerlgtioo  to 160,000 ha.
s mm. providing Kc,     ad Ilrrlptis to 45,000 ha.
ll m. providing Irrigmti  to 12,000 ba.



X.. !t   D W      CE T
~~.V  ':::4...~~.         '-'~-~~,--.~*.~o         Pr'   Ff    P74       P-!       '          '     7t       P              2     P4         '       "4         '     Tua
C. Nam        :,m.
A.- PO     &U       M  C34 ES P      1  F.IUE MD FM       C 2315
t.-    7 j                                                                            15.553.5 i2.ose.s  1303.5 7  I  7    00     36,23' ,w;M. 3M. 19,1;3.0  21,270.J nb3M7.
2.                                                                             .... .,masc.rso7
EM1l~~~~s-PPI                               .,..40       -   .   -            P7   40   40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3f 3  -  -    -    ; 17, .0.3'?    "500  ''505  135b3.3 o                         39004.2  qIM.o's.  41'36.11 07.M.3 173.191.
9*Tot.!      mi ff3mfl    W8I0 0. 27M.                                                                                                                                                     42.M. 1305000                 .     -6046    41,810.1 40,3.9 115 ,14.3203,112.4
-    9*-Totapl PU          UEILE    (14   050010019 FACWTIES31 FM0 OM-                                                                                          -       --150.      - -                      -      -  --- -                 -                  -,04~ 36,6.   5,.1357.
1. IMt C05TE
2. UWTI  -mn                                                                        PA .im Mss o.- 2,500.0  5053.0   7,50,.o  15,0M5.5                                                                            -       -             -  3 t1.3  9214.6  13P.M1. 2t,40'WS
SilEilES       M7 POW                                                                                                                                                11A2Y l031   -   -  -e    *, _ 5   ±1 e  -    -30  - 1   -1,00.0  26,e20.0    -  t. -  -  r26.3.5  424.4
£3I    - m                                                                  15314        -                                *   -    '2 '3 '.!30 -     -                 5               -3040550                -                     -3.1.              -   ,j.       3 3
-*-Total -CIJ  -xm~  >                                                ge- s-    -     - 33750.0        -  03,eDe.e 5.?0COO.C  rxot 35,7520  *  -    - 305  -a.0  *X tn712.=4  -?7tt.6 132441.
M-Total ,MM              UT  C M  6 "M                3 C!T FOR M                   ¶                                                             ---  -  -                                      -*-'-'-  -    -   ' '-                                          -        1-
OM':  R  'SUM - M0 TEEST4 I ?MM  ssi !"MIA!                                                 .          .    .   .       .     .     .     .-                     6,060.0 *.7.0 D    2- e .o  13e,*0.0 ^SI        .         .          .±3,1MU -4.. e3,034.2  111404S
2. P&MIC        WACE                                                             5 M     .                      " g  .    .o :S                 -       -25 ~.o    ss  2,s. 1    oo. o      hS1o O   O.   1,.eO.  -   49.0   *1 1.111.0 2- 32.1  2,154.0  2,304.1  t071.0
E9*-T Uta   -    WM7                                                        ion0 4O'                                           le I-   .   .  - 3     -500.5  -     - 100.5           - 4 :        2-250.0      - 3    -.6    *       -.1      -2  ,4.             -  17,70.4
.A-Tota3 WSLPIOl.SUP04J.. Ostx 1155's  A00J~3                                       n            2         2         3-     1."'d          IM:               3: o               7 35/C7 ±4230050 4*1.0.
kb_latal CMooRWrSWMU-- W- Mrt  WI f.V- HA'                         3,3-.0 -50.5 *,4'.0   W1          MM22,s0o.0   -*004.1 123 0.4              .:  7.02! 2* -- .53.1010.1   2,34.8  3 04J
Total SEA          Ltr mT 15
- 3  -3.0   -C 63   A.0 -,  e.oto.o  ?trO.C              -142 -:1   2         0-.1 -329 3.7t        ± -   0.3 3S    t.4
- 332,560. 5t 62,53!.O 23,345.3 :3-.7.D 1327,100.0 331,731       - 4,1 -.2          1 rS .o  '.0 ?74,26S.5  3,6t.23 5        .4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . ..... ... . .....
I00   1O1,  Ml ON 1'M 5NM  CMlyI5TO3 -F043   174um   OF A rw=r,
Jumaro 12, im   1ots-                                  - -- ---        - --    - -- -O                                                         - -  - - - - -- - -  - -------  -------.-  - ------  - ---  - ------ - -
11, ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~ ce -9    0                        t     - :   0t-33.                                      ,o.o         -axo               - 7so0          le?E            *3.                4tft        ~      1-J.



11070102 I 227 -1121.'12099214
0601. U    E 7  10±7120  420a 06t    .08!00b6(3
~17 000
(bit P12 Pr2 P15 94  M0  P14 707 TOW1  colt   M0           Pr2     M0      f74     972     PI,   1-   40t.-       9        PY2    M1       Po4      M1     P76   P77  T.
1.     T  001
6,omrous/a
FEB1 I Slm611 3660*73                        GM      - --3                           -           6122.0   612.0   6121.0   412.0   5M6.   MO.    -  ,600,        706.9   M7I.   WU74      0.7    95.    954.4   -       M$64
(387660322331  COW  0M4(100                  73 m    - -                             -           4401.0   4018.0   440.0   -0. 0   104.0   004.0   -2,4119,      471.2   503.4   Z02*   593.3   594.6   6242J         2.317.1
360f mum0 (M200m                                     . .               .         .73.     .       040    04.0   3004.0   4.      192,0   292l.0   -1,20.0        23.6   254.7   225.9   295.2    MI7   311.1   -2631.?
M.b-Tot.     00T3 /a                                                                              t,224.0 1,224.0 1,22i.0 1,224.0 JA112.  0112.0       .24.       1.413.1 1,549.3 2.49.5  2,77.4 2,.73.  2,403.0       13,370.
FENI I 9 6WZI 5733738                        so(7..22. .                              .          22.    122.    222.    122.4   115.2   225.2         7 720.0    242.    154.3   1604    177.0   170.4   2491.    -2,47.4
RMS  Nrnu                                    0 m          - --u                 -    -           510.0  512.0   520.0   520.0   *.o1   430.6        2,42.0       39.1   6,42.3   61R.13  731,2   742.2   7f531.      4,117.)
IM .A  mOWO         I CL. 11  (0 (to  1      so      .-                                          244.0   244.8  2144.8   744.0   230.4   230.4   -1,440.0        233.7   343.1   332.2   354.3   356.0   31.0    -  2,004.7
6C0 I=  420 0 t13    RIM11)                  73            . . .                .                612.0   622.0   612.0   612.0   576.0   576.0   .3.442,0        706.9   773.1   W3.811  0.7   891.9   454.4   -  5I2.8
9*-7Tu2 95I3705  011111INC lb                                                                     2,44.2 24.2  t,409.2  1,439,2 1,.01.6  1,102.6       8,760.0    2.3414374.4  .2.   .32220427.                         23.
C.  M*o      PEu1i111C am. it
FM2 0 ON01  333173                           73…2- -                      - - -                  021.0   10O.    102.0   202.0    060.0 0IA           600.0      127.8   12.4   2118.0   147.6   143.7   150.21         .335
M0066 mAE, I 0.    3M  (20 IN)- P21   73-1           .                    . . .       .          204.1   204.0   204.0   204.0   IV2.    192.0   -1.2300.        23.-6   256.7   2M39   290.?   M0.3   213,1          NM,60.
WAWA   70   301.0497 RV6200 U)               so03-. .                              .  .        5,216.0 5,200,0 5,100.0 5,200.0  4,110.0  4,110.0   -3.36.4.    50010.5  6.417.1 0.497,  7111.38.  7,42.9 7,9150.2  - 1.9n2.2
tam  N      (20 (2 a 33o3m 0)             73-- . . .                            .  .5,440.0                       -  ,200.0       -5,400.0   - 21,030.4             6.795.4        13,420.0       - 3,917.4   -  02&H.7
W31LLC93±         N   M M8431302 114 1K  El J 73-11... .              1..30.I.0                                          II?3.0      -      .0    -    38.0              227.31      -   27365       - 47.5            Va92.9
W2131118                                     am      -        - --22-                 -.,2.0.0  2,18.0 1.021.0  2,4201.0 (.344.0 2.3*4.0   -  ,400.0   t.44.3 2I73.0 2,01.  2,346.6 2.321.2 2.3b6.9   - 20.73.
93-040.01*0 M3  MINNUo  NW. /C                                                                    6,814.0 12,422.0 4,034.0214,222.0 4,42.0 02,4*.0   -31,11K.0    7439.325.433.  9,243.2 20,.97 0f,968. 228,4.2        IN131.73.
3. 51131(6  1199  731021
=W- 5121                                 FM-3…25-                                     -      13.0   153.  .0  0L   152.0   144.0   244.0          " 10.      274.7   192.5    46 21  221.4     3.0   231.4   -1,73.2
11110111        n   i                     o      - - - - --- -02103*320.0   (42.0   102.0   1202.                             96.0    04.0   -   69.         127.3   2204.4 IN       247.6   10,7   (38.1   -       111.51
33403                           73~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- - - - - - -          -          61.2    61.2    62.2    62.2    57.6    57.6   - 24.0           737    77.0    32.8    3.6    89.2    95.    -    W.7
WY"10423266119mm,9063/                                                                              314.2   226.2   316.2   314.2   297.4   27.4       I 2,7.0      368.2  237.9   427.7   437.6   666.    4922         2.6112.3
E. TOWE? 09M2  F60U31T1 it
931.W7313s2-6--4-21-0 -3-024.4  1226.4   36, 26.4                                                                                37,W2    W87.2   -1,93.9        277.6    do6.?   441.1   42.4 475.    39".8         2,666.
elm                                   so33.3.0.0.73-459.0 459.0   4                                        59.0   439.4   45.0   432.0     2,710.0         wt.  5774   434        664.    66.9   7134          2777.4
73-Ost  ol 10     OF3FICE 051.020  Ia                                                               705.    73A    73.    700,    7592    M3.2   -4,60.4           9I8. 1 .43.  I2.46.  t2,M6 2,244.7 10.124         -  04a1.
431(142  2 7M$ /                             g 7  -           - - - - - -             -         204.4   204.0   204.9   204.0   J92.    292.0   - 2,01.0         23A    226.7   275.    29.2 2.2 273   22.2    t- 0.
FM   /                                       so 7 -29- -                            -12.0   124.0   120.0  202.0    96.0    96.0   - 666.4                       1(74   2284   13.0   247.6   20.7   259.               W.1.5
FM8 93 230. Km0.110111100.  /0.           OM3            --'..200.0   2,0.209,                                                    -         -   2,440.0          - 2,514.1 1,2.0L         -       -       -      - 320.
Ih-o42 119.10                                                                                       V06.  (.526.0 0.006,.0   326.0   38.0   28.0   -4,214.0         3.4 1.3M.2 2,336.9   462.    446.    47.2   -5,5.5.
LOIWOED 73383                                SW.03. . -24.6 '.6   3106.3   246.6   W2.]   23.2   M7.4   -  ,916.3                                                3443    WI.   11.1   424.2   J3.4   658.7   -   ,6.
9202.1313E(3  0107 (COMP I OM0.)             gm      ..3-5.. .                                    74.0   374.0   274.4   374.0   222.    352.0   -  ,200.0       432.9   470.6   311.2   340.1   56.2    3.2         347.0.
FM  out8(. 0000173007                        S 02 -7--3,0-                           -            M      23.0   220.0   23.0   224.0   224.0   -  ,440.4         274.?   299.    22I.    344.4   It6.?   37.2    -  0.I3
9000M070Jin26090-7                                                          -        -2239.9   395.0   59,    595.0   160.0   164.0   -   3.500                  63.?   743.7   IN..3   112.2   36.2   W2.,   -  439.9
Pih  NM2  09126 0107 I 5510113,              s       . . . . . . .                    . 73126.0   234.0   126.0   226.0  1270.0   120.0   -   30.                157.    572.1   (32.9   196.    2.2   232.1          1,219.2
WY"o21  007to22(n  003  /2                                                                       (.2094  2,729.3 1.30.4  (.774.3  .496.I  2,417.4   -9,026.1    1.336,  2,176.2 2t.23.  2.5474  2,316.7 2,723.2         2.5,
TOWI tom , 020(0                                                                                   02,344.1 9,473.1 22,744.4 20.1.1.t 21.36.  (7590 -9.62 1,1.24.38.4 (3W.39   2.25,2 ( 34 29,161,4                      1 34o43,.7
1.4.2                                                                                               22544.4t9.473.113,744.4 .0,110.21 306,5(709.8   -95,20.3   164281431124,38,11.589429,213.20,.492.4                  -422.
lb       738886a6006674a66932600I222
/vIc     A  N833   300M138  N94 dl 8  3*0A
IdM/6M9 M                       rW     rM1                O 233(0210830082025*3375803)MM4W4N18350  KM/    0214611
I.M           N M C314M  W 700*0005 C.00±  2 OF71CE
/0      M MW  T            1310312036   COW. 33260 CO11  00G607T94150, IOU± M14
/6J031131E001W0OF1004019300471095006OF0OATS   10 FFICE AC110                                                                                                                                                                         -
*MM03111FOR393C01(16C6 00 F 6733
/6  000r 9231130 03*0350 10150   1m72.125916



T. wmnmw C
"DM7  e        m                           to0.            .0.       .    .0.      -  0. 29           M1O.    me2.    02.4   102.-  1,5.2   -      20.0   14.4   M1.:   18.4    421 7.0       234 01.2       21341A
U5146R                                    SN  .433.43.                   .41 .               3.6    74.0   40.4   40.6   39.4        M.4         2404   70         01,13   31.2    3.4  0 41      8.4         1111
126NA2am   f.2E0)                        gm      .-                                         22.4    NA.   21.4   21.4    1942   09.2            13.0    22.      2L.7    27.4    2.5    29.7   10A            WA9.
lm mm iin mO                               so00..1 .1 .                            .10.0 SIL                130.0  511.0   4610.    WA4          2.46.6    WA 6  .1 44.4 4.8   73.0   742.    76.2            4,R97
sAIoutOPENOM  is                                                                              1010.2  1.43.: 10.3.2- .1,3.2   9494   007.4         6.6.0  1,09.  0.32.4  t.N414 10,9.9 1,131A404 SAW              46.4"
4. "0111W              00A
FIOT rin1i1n11                             FM      - ---                           -         160.0   1404.    624.0   16o.0   78.0  '81.0   -  7.30.       941.  1.31.9  0.03.7  0,.   ,0,4  0.275            4.,70.
wam       IR m                                                           .f6. a.             264.    204.0   21444   244.0   042.0   142.1-      1,264    131.4   256.7   270.    3.2   047.    36.6          4.83
0)"im     I -VA                            - - - - - - -    -                       2.18.  2.435.0 2.430.0 2,130.0 2,4404.  2.064       9 5,446.0  2.96.2  .36.9  &W.46 1.4  ,.4 1,716A  .4.4A        3.46.
glm   Q044                              Ma                                     -           022.    022.    0.4   122.4   105.2   I6.2           730.4    06.4   t54.4   1M$   077.    623.    03.9   -  20A
in2io mu m   i.i                           63               - - -                  -          44,    244.    204.   2144   210.9    WA6.        0444.4    30.    In.    A.J    as    as    JR4                tow4.
lmf  El 1m 11 D M M    3                   II                   -    -        -a -54 E  -    104.0   002.0   002.0   04.0   94.0   II.1-          46.4    26759  226.    W26.    24.4   M6L?   09.2             Wm
44-44.  MWIS06 WI[l                                                                           4,039.2 441.2  4,039,2 4.010.2 531wA .011,3.4    -   05,76.  4,4.3.  5..9 1.40.2          " 146.4  2. 6.4  433.    - 312.
C. 11M41MI mm  .m,  IC
Om46 OUNIEW                                 3                                                        34.04           3106.0      -    4.0        1,44.4             w ~ e           4m             41.7   -  046
.3 mm11 1141.01111143.4                                                                                                          -               6.36.,    73.4        -           4.         -       -         ,8.
Rl   W     W4     WMD-404A6                                - - -             -46466  30          -               -,0.    46.4.   464.  2-0    S-WA 6 .4        -       -,1.   ,3  46.    890.74.7-.    -  3.3
lm  -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -  4.713.0  SAW3.  641.03 4,.0 6.1,4h 4,514.0      574.4-   WL 7,00 n0.$6.09.04     4.707 9,46.424SAW           NANA4
mom3                                      -a                           - - -       -        2.46.0 2,46.0 2.46.0 2.40.0 23.36   2.36.4      04440.0  5.A.42.4 4  6.,31J.4  .3.4M  3W51 1 .1   -3.46.
44-14442  46462325 46N  74                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii2u.544,44 02,1A;-44.42,44.02.1.12,272 Ez--2 ~ --                        Z 77442.494234444.33 1,3.6313 A.   wow79.
ma                      30                                                 264,0~~~~~~~~. .      . .       it  36.    244.0   36.0   097.0  1924.6    0,3145    34A    M?.   M5.    mu    mu    3.s  WM#a.
mOD                     46.~~~~~~~~~~~- - -              - -    -          0.9 0.4         02A 2.4  012.4   *15.2   2052        WA73    141.    j24.4    WA.   07.1   OM6.    0PL9           WA.4
4633                             a.202.0   03.4   002.4 M60.2..4. .   . .          304    1             .4 I,   A  94    944            46.9    W27     23.4   23.4   04.    6.    46.2 -             4
44.14411130         574316341id                                                                 43.4   4264   620.    43.4   460.2   62.2   -204                0448   SW.I   V9.4   464      AX 4 6.4   030     26.
0.  7A 64646 MO        5151201to
93.4                                       M                             a.247.    01.9   01.9   511.    4401.2   4901.2   -  14.                          40.684. M"         .    53.1   74L . WA    .9       4.33.
mm     3 1011W                      a.714.                               ..              .0  S16O 110.  224.4  460 .0 0                  2464.0 0M     .  440.4  845  73.0  ?42   WU0   . 4.3
61463546333/9                    a.204.0o - -           - -           - -             O         HA '... 204.0 24.0 3.4 69.    6M.4    1.-46      43L4   216.7   2Mt   293.   147.    506.           043.9
33,,.                 a.7,414.0  7,904.0- - -                -                NM    7,90.  7,44.  746.0  7.41LO   - 6464   9,5.2044*.1 14,704 124400.36.J02.41O.4    - 8.3
v=                                         a..  - -                                                 2,460.1A21.4                                               . 2,514.6.5.45
111135FMm 4I466. kWh640T2I1mo   a  .                        .54.0...6.4. 2.7.VMSM2.8.732
44-144.16403                                                                                  41404 42.0444  4,1.06,00.  746.0 7,444.0    -s 51.4464~M 94;456.*.1.716414  42273.0h                               70.6
L  S61.n1411111 11
~INIONTNMDSM                                       .                             a.44.'.    6.1    10.4  405.4   42.4   426.0                    2,724.4    16.4   577.7  414.9   70.4   472.   7MA            SoNla
nas atmisma                             .      a .544.0   544.0   104.0  564.0   512.0   112.                                         3 .340.0    4U3.   46.4     M$.  14.1   MM4    6 9         -  %4.
91534mm1I033W740gm a.73.0   235,0    3.9   MA.   242.01   2.0-f    1.34,4    244.2   W3.,   144.    36.4   V704   317.7                                                                                        2046.7
ron,                                       o       . .3. .                . .3 a.424.                 MO4.   61.0  414,      7.    740.0VA        .60.4     0.04  ,046.9  0.0.   ,5. 0.1 11f   10,272.2M       4,73.
9251  0      I2 ANOMB mOS..T                                            . . a.1100,    012.5   000.1   100.5   004.0   044.    -    4.4    127.4   01.1  1044   IN.,   2404   172.                               MA.
44-0.44  EVIUIN      732ClI/                                                                  2,102.4  2,0142 .71  2,210.9 2.1,   ,2.               24.       ,5.   ,4.   ,4,   .).    . 3742.1                  SAW46
to -1113                                                                                 70,99.2424122.47,20,42.3.11,3.00                    120,224.l  0,44.942, 032346.144.34f.93,0401 .-M04--o          3046l4
lo                                                                3I.71.1            '-   ;-1.  1 -2I-                    …      …      …      …      …      …      … -    - ;-W  :-,M01.
Is4.                                                                                             2204.54WM.294a.20,on02.000  9.0'.6a,"14. 1M74.4270.2946Me,3.92.144.2gm,.4
/.     ma 3134m U     ICT :,019.07090269.646304
/d 4A 313A023 V MM V93140007IV I I1I041FM0M M W20213011 '2.-W4' OrrX754
/* WM.I  N031O7     mm WI 1002015050105
It 31m07W  F  M33W   AS            . 3M,5RI, Mm! 0  305421.91001. 73  .1..
/0ILMW M1034  AlEISA WIS W 4mum
A C30 3113646KAM1IF9.t474674710MUM 10 S. EE012005 107221'



N!O !L IDlltA.Xll:
VM.     :.2t  1: at 4172471   -          41r3
. ~~~~ :^.::a n . : ... ..               -       -----------
VA't Pq   Pr  m    P.-.  Mb l-      J    t   OT  s-;               -T             P-'  V.    O        n       2     M      F"      M1 ?           PO      W
1. KMUM cum~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1131471 2*
*.a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
"m  , , S. ... .                                     114N.    3.0    !. M                       22.: -2.3 Aa   4 MA   m  l ?4   -
m m       2tv NE                              so     -    -   -   -  -    -   -    - .    404            01.0   401.0  40.0  31.0    NU   - 4:.0     lt. 1.2   D}.0           104       MD lla      bm- 
FlAll MOM   1143 On              J             3      .  .    .    .    .    .    .     .    t22.472474fl247,Pt47,4- :1. 1225 22.2 2    '141.4  I4.2.4      2MU  474               3      *     7 ?t.
-V.--  -,1) -.  -- *-   - - -. ' -
L. uENm        _3z         m /1>
*   -   -at                                                   *                -        412.2  U2.2  224.2   3.2   '1.&  mi.             AIM    3.    32.         .   41 4J.    4l..   - 11       _4
6123 127 ml@                                                                                 42.-* - - - * * 2   424.7  423.2    4.2    34.2   34.1   - A,41.0   4   322   43.4   .3    304  b23  -Sam
110n    _t 11021 W                             O2** **2.411.22,SI:  2.4  2.4 hY2J2  212.2   *   74.   241.4  234.4   24   3.1;-                                                     3.4 2. -         23 ?1  Ul  -
FN I1U     11143  3) GM                                                                       .22  2#.40 221.4  222.4    1.2  3I4 12.          117.0   2 42.4  3544   23.1 *   .   13.4 124.4   -SAA.
-tW         EII a1.     2. . . . 1.                       .                                     4.3   434    13.4       .    242.4   44   -  3114   ,            4.2  .I 3O  7.
C. 3llle MFIE311111
NN     a mms mn.______                                                                                                                                              X      7,s,*  _  -  *D -  - -171.  SW7A
4423543.1?        m                                                                          1245  222.2    2.    2.    44 244 - 3.                    3632.2   234   284   2124    34   -               1 34 U4%1b
e6      22 W                                         -7 m.o  *2. *7                                                    *     -  -.    2 421e1 1024 .2  102.2 3. 31- a4.aa m  h71 .  s m4a  .114   -    MAJ
42  DMi     4242 M3.M2e3.                                                                  1     0. 2,31.2  ..12  2,31.2  241   2        . 24,3L.M   233  32,437 1            '1A  b .? &M4 2_32
OK EMM  22243 ND-                               3.37    1.4 327.   374  37M.4  334.4  3342                                                 232324    422416   34.24  4L23M 2.  33         2-3.   - N.43
ininl2461.2l2.0   * 2|2.0s  2|2.2   71.4 2e4 l                                                                                      2.     . *  MA    W3      644    M#    ¾.    4.    243    774 4
k-Tad 332432224 243I,3                                                322424~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,X    2,722 1.6 2732,7211.6  1,34.1  1443.3  A 313 .44.16443".  3,W.4  t,?*M  3,3111314 .6.   -  .22,
"41421i34mm2a  mm           N w=/                2.m.4  -                                                          7,MA2       .           .  7A314    -                  -3.3. 43                  .24
mu  i mom              61.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~122.4  142.0  14. 0 242.    44P1                  14 .&   23,4   W3.4  23.4   2.    204   224    342                      WIS3
_l2433          o         o2                                      -3 -    -  *  -    - 2.2.2M2M 32                .2       .1 2    24          0       W7.4 ,   4      .  37IVA   SOL3    2     -1      WIS.7
k-tad 37*322343232:  33!  14                                          3.32.4 3,37.43,33.4232742.47,74347,742.2   - 34.3244.34424.32.438.31.23.76.mm3M441.4132NA*    - 3"A          3.7
-.231.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~V   242.   2424    42    444                        4.           4      1,    3.       34 3.          2.      4 
_     3f                                   33.43.   3, 3-2    24. 4-. -4- -                                -                               34,      32,4o U2. t3.    34   342    3. -               23*.   7s  s  Ol w
. M44M                                                -    -    -   -    -    - *4   1*3.2 4.2   1.2   4 33.                               23111*       W       7A     . A       4 3.       M". -4SOA7
k-_        _ t min    413/                                                                      1.2   21f24   2432   22.2   2444   24.6   -  3.34    31.    33.7   34.?   354   -1.    42.                .
0=111111131213i                                                                33224.4  234.4  124.4  2244 3.0                     2340.     3.43.     3.1  &*.I  34,    73.2   76.    Ms             4.34.
k-td112      1F432346E.11,111   4o3.2   042    432 4.2ft    422    WU2.   -  323    SA4W3  1,W.&                                                              3. 1.1131   22,33,40.4424 t  .-S  P7.1
F. OIR M
U341 23135                                    U.224.2 224.4 24.0 24.4 142.4 1.2,4 . 1.31                                                                ,   .7 |233. 34. "2 3.0 In. -     3   - 2.34s4
ml -                                                20;023  33.124.4  714.2 7e 24.   714.t   72.4   02.4   -                                   "a u.334  4.7  9784   23.7 _  33.32,442.4  2,3224    
mm                                    IlltmIVE1113     -    -   -   -    -    -         -t.            -      -- -                               '7                --  -                   'AN  7,1
9*  84 R                                                                                       S  .O 9a " 33.- 2,444.4.,2.#,4                         w    4. 32 1341.3,31446.4 ,44                    M
m 1422422.27934.    E 332t    33.                                                           ---  - 3_,024.4..2.                                   _    3,_-  31.4.**    _t11U
kTad   4W                                                                                       424.  2,40.  4no.o   4eo      Ue4.024. 24.   -  433.4   2       h4.3.  2,23.4 2.2   337.4 3WU4   -   U23.
6. u _rtm       con /a
E.4      131i   1                              so3                                                   3-   -    -    -    -  .. 1S.2 ?J1.2   3.22   51'.?  2204   330.4  -    13.u  M4   3  4a4   7413J   2.  2.4,  -  b,3.
1 E          SW                                33.43.l 4-.0 4-.   4-.4 M-.    3*4.4   -   2,2.0    471.2  222. t.4                                                                  -J? W44 43         b ?
nu am 3237                                     33.420.  414.   4130   412.1  144.4   1, INI                                                  241.43,0   .3 1.2,M32 2.241421,304  1.Wt7.424114     7.33.
4M31 M234 ff                                   2...40    M4    2tt0   20.t   12.4  342.2                                                      ,24.4    23.    2?   VL.   31411. W7.3  31.1             I-Mg4
k-Tad  i7lt2       O    Jo h3                                                                 2.2 2,73.2 2,74.z2 2,.7 2.434,2.1ttJ              MD.t I ,23.4 32440.2 2.237.? 4.242  4.46       h      * 2     4
dll)   -   fU                                                                                   17,MO  24,14 17,D3l42 ,1U.43 U.4 474t.4   -132344.1  2N,P74 2.22 4                 32.-43.8 2a.4t2 27, .4  u Wl
.~…. ..…                                                                                                                                                    -
hC  swa  ot 01110    flu  amb f1  t
ft  Mm0 erw    Wlm          Eti ERtEt to          M171* low  W Pl-MDlJII !  to v-ea
toh       NUAMCIM  VD=I                                                                                                                                                      -                  -       - f'l
n2  m       VW f2l4 t1 _4 tal WR3 lSLtA
Ta. 24321a2313343e               .5  i xor
42~~~~~~ _ .35,4453353.41            ..  _3 _242 ............  _18 _  721. __._.  .... 
1.3 2, 2   l2   OrU



ml b20112  00811L0T6!23  PP*EI
T.01. 10  nWp.si., 196703  WNIDM   - "AW016j 130 107115  fM~W0
0et2jh4- Cc3t %b01i
i T0. W.. 
b.mUtot                                              too   oti                                           TotUls OelvOM t.tsiwi,
mKAMinr cams
A. 931A123/a
Am  (2212                         mm VA81.6   31.6   L.c   01.6   76.3   '6.0    -                                                         W.~       94.2  181.7  110.4  113.213.   127. 3             67.6
sum       (in   363)                 13                                        -           6.2   63.2   a1.2   61.2   0. T..J      A         W6.'.    79.    77.0   81.8    U6    81.2   95.4   -    in.?
FLMP   8r3O   (A  I)                 gm                                        -           40.3  1 8    49.3   00.    3.4   38.4              4. 0     47.1   SW.    3.       .9P    3.5    62.6         3m5
.TOtul 931132  /a                                                                           1NU.   ff.6  181.6   13.6  172.0  372.0      1.23.0    M1.1  221.9  2434  263.7  2W7.   216.3                  I 1l21.0
K 61.S (12 233                    gm                        - - - - - - -    -         234.6  234.6  234.6  234.6  '-20.8  229.8         1 ,=A.      734.0  295.2  317.3  3139.5  341.9   63.8        IM143.
Im  I   (613  )              W a               - - -                   -         204.0  294.0  204.0  294.0  192,0  102.9          1 ,289.0    MA.   3.7  2VI.   205.2  297.   313.1   -   .678.
nJ, mOBA   (28633                    am                    - - - - - - -       -        I" 1,07 0.0 3,029.9     1,0290.0 3,020.   910.0 96. i 608.t  1.2)8.1 2.2.6 1,7.m.  2,076.2 2,606.6  0A 1,8.  -8394.6
SotTota 0313011  Ndiii         /b                                                          I.68.6 3,68.6 3W,40. 1.43.6 1,372.812,272.9         .8.     364?18.  ..   .1.  ,2.  .7,    -1212.081.
C. W791   a  30031  8913T         fC
3666033L123)                         SM      -    - - - -   -   -2 06.0  206.0    6.9  3W6.   208.0  23.0   - 1.t9.                                   353.4  13.1  413.   442.8  089.   077.2   - 2,5181.4
NNW2  EIM  (60 PM -I)      Ngm               -         -73- 1-3                -        1,330.0 1.270.0 2,52.0 2S330.0 1,440.9 3,440.0     9.000.-   ,6.  .34  ,6.  .1.2221926.                      - 2392.52
F1.OW   mmosM In8 0) - 018                         - - - -                          am…1402.0 3,02.0 1,0290.0 3,020.0  96.0  f00.0   -  ,000.0  3,338.1 1.33.6 1.17f.6 1,0762 2.186. 1I58.6    -   .34.6
hlb-Tata3 07m   No P0131  891811         c                                                 2,16. 2POU.4 2.361.0 2.006. 2.63.0 2.031.0    - 6,880.0  3.211.7 1.4".9 3,86.8 4,11.2 4,162.4 4.43.8     23.35.9
amin                                 M    -2-- - -                                         0.0   29.4   10.0   290.4   39.2   19.2   -   19.           23.6   2.7    V7.    NS.   29.?   31.8   - 16.9
MMOU     1IBm                                                                              10..,  10.2   39.2   10.2    9.6    9.6   -        0.0      11.8   12.913ILI            14.8   14.9   15,      3.9
MssumS                                                     -m-19.    5.6   20.6   30.6   29.8   28.3                                         IN19.     3.3    X.5   42.4   $4.1   404.64.7   -    00
.96-Tota      111AM 6633  53W53/ id.2   61.2   01.2   61.2   57.6  51.6   -   36.0                                                                        33.7   77.0   81.    89.    89.2   95.    -   3.?
E. iinr  m  FFs ovISunIo 
1431 LmT                             M2                                                     0.6   20.6   36.6   W.6    2.8   5.3    -   1.0            33.1    X.5   41.4   *44     44.6   47.7   - 20.1.
ensm - 313131511 u                   9m-. .31 . . .                                          .0   31.0   51.0   51.0   6.9    41.9            We9.     31.9   64.2   69.9    Me.  74.3   79.5   - 419.?
M-Taal NIIPT   W3 mm00  933IT113 I.                                                           92.6   81.6   93.6   81l6   76.8   76.8    -          e.    94.2  132.7  1184  328.1  008.9  3lV.3   -    7.6
F. Uft5
891111. It                           M    -52- -                              - -            .0   51.9   51.9   32.9   48.9    Wo9           380.0     3.9    64.2   69.9   73.    74.3   7.5   -   41.7
MD   M 33  93      MI73              M. -             - - - - - -               -          15.2   15.3   1S.3   15.3   14.4   24.4   -    9.C           17.7   19.3   28.?   23.3   29.3   21.9   - 12.9
SeTota  18U156.3   64.    663   66.3   62.4   62.4                                                                                           3- 390       76.6   3.4   8I.7   96.    964   14A.    -          M?
8. 0ITOKIUUIW 3128
IW M fAW                      a.-110.  234.0  214.9  124.8  287.3  107.3   - 6'0.5    132.7  143.4  154.2  laA.  166,1  177.3   -   03.1
rmi 11IMPI010              am-48.0   481.9  418.0  406.0  34,0   30.0    -24.c                                                               472.2  U134  S3.8   199.   3144   6363   - 2.37.
0,9Tota  MU111 1   CMlS                                                                      322.0   22.0  522.0  52.9 41. .3 Z3                         - ,79 M66.   _616.   706.9  13.4  _769.   824.0    - 4206.9
Total          cam31                                                                         5,229.3 322t.3 5,229.3 3,22.3 4,921.7 49.! -30,740.5   6,0.8 6,11.3 75872.1 7,37. 7,21.3 8,154.    - 4,1.2
rr___ ,-..m  1----- m---           r m        m    n,--- - --I                                             -      ---
T0131                                                                                         5,229.3 5,229.3 1,229.3 3.229,3 4,021.7 4,921.7   -30,766.    6,089. 6.30.3 7,972.8 7,W6.91 7.62141 8.054.8     aOU.02.'
/b 1300 1313MKt333073 !M  A
ft  231801681C1130OR  0 FM
Ort*ff 12, I93  302                                           11



MBARA
47tlS mwaazratnul NIET
TabW 14   t rF   K.M        iT  P Mi Is
kW.1d Cot t7601
418t '0010
OS~~~~~~~~~lawh CostsTal rad                                                                                  _ui..
IMIt m   Pr2 rnJ Pt4 P5 P1S  M7  T4a1i Cst   "I    Pr2              n3    P4    n15            P r6   m    Ta    m      m        m       P4       1       nu    P7  T708
ma  ma -m   -         --~-   ,-a  -,.sm                  a--. ~~~-.-ma    -.................                       . ,.m, -r lw-....   -.  WS      a t     .....       . ma   ma_
A. n _WM¶3  - inTs 4 m
mm  sn- fmEU e     sAg                                                    -    -    - -          -       -                - 21200.0 2200.0 M,20.  M0    2,2.0    - 1s.0               - 2.71s 2975.6 3e1.  S4A.  3,65.2   - U57.9
-  UNA 10TM9- flISU B            S                               SW       -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -             - 2,400.0 2M400M0 2,400.0 2sM0.4 240.0   - 12,000.0          -      .2  3246.1  3,073.3 3.71.  347.6    - MM2.6
rTOa-I MtwS1I II   -    Um        is  S 63 3                                                                                - 4.600 40     460.0 4o600.0 4,600.0   - 2300.O              - 5766  6,22.7 6A67.2 7,23.2 7421.1   - M3412.5
*. _   T r                                                                                                                                                                                            .
-                                                                 s       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -        579o    57.0  578.0  5.0  54.0  594.0   - 3,46O.0             0.9 r   U6.2  7n.7   70.4   75.    W19.4   - 4,324.5
0     lI A Mii                                                            -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -     1,7M.0  1,735.0 1,7M5.0 19745.0 1,3.0 1660 .0   - 10,50.   lV74.3 2,62.0  2,10.e 2430.4 2.MCAe 2M.                - 13#.ZL
964"tl W STE                                                                                                           2,363.0  2,36.0 2363.0 2363.0 '- 4.0 2,124.0   - 139M.0   2.45.2 2,304  2,4.5  316.9 3M.$ 3435.0    - VoMA
C. WM  in        TW. 0 1 tl WrFI   t lE8ff123.15, . A t91m
mm  u/                                                                   -        -        -              -        2,60.0 2,930.0  960.0  960.0  90.0   60.0   - 9,600.9   3024.6  3,294.7  1*161.4 1,263.0  I351.4 1,49             -  1si3A
3  lESWA N1T11                                                    g-                                       -        1,260.0 1,260.0  420.0  420.0   7o.0  420.0   - 4,200.0   am3.  1,41.4   516.4    =.6   5n9.3   62.6   - Sff7.3
1Tota  ff=           1T1, 01 6 NWlEf      I OfLEB, IMEL I S3STS1                                                       4,140.0  414,0 1,380.0  31.30.0  ,30.Q 13,30.0   - 13,3.0  4,347.0 40,3.2  0,66.5  1:515.  1,942.7  2,e73.7   - 16619
TotIa DE T  5S m6503. 1103.0 8,343.0 M3A43  0.204.0 8s204.0   - 5,730M.0  6,0.2  3223.1 10,324.0 U#,U1.7 12196.7 u.3e.5    - V77t.1
TOW                                                                                                                       693.0 11,103.0 8.333.0 MC33,0  ,204.08 8204.0   - sO794.0  69,.2 1321.1 10,04.3 111.7 12,1n.? 13.33.5    - 67739.
/a mmum AffmT1                                       a                                                                      l          r    r          - .ar, 1- ITIll   -   mamaa



BMW
_       3 AS M1311  MI  r WF  lv9fl?
L-t-le1o Calt %ble
Ubat1tv                                                 Dosew :Ws                                             TtlS twig"  c.ltijt1.ss
_~~~~~~~~~~i                                                  . ...
aIht m   P2 mM   94 m   m   Pm? TOW   Cot   P1              Pr.2    n3       nY4     91!    P11    Pr    ltuI    PI        P2       m73    PY4      m      n,    P7   TOW
a.su  m swwu TiRiAD _w
CII. 11S                                                                           -         , 3,250,0 1,250.0    -        -      -      -       - 6:300.0 3753.1 4.3-1           -       -      -       -      -
ElENi                                                                              -        4,350.0 4.350,0       -        -      -       -      - 0,700.0 4,357.3 51m.1 *                        -             - 13,6.
FPll                                     am       -                      -                  1,600.0       -       -        -                        I,6.0 1330            -                                           t.
'11  M3I*ML                              gm                                                 6,500.0  400s.0       -        -      -      -       -13000.0 7n47.5  3.152.3         -       -       -             -
Lam 1    ti0                             S        -   -    -    -    -    -    -              9 0.0   P80.0   900.0  9M0.0        0    9.O       - 4SyO0.0 1,11.9  1,33.2  1,325.5  14183  73,   311.9          -  6,67.6
tort B IN"                                        ---                                       3,070.0 6h140.O  61440.0 6340.0 L        3070.0 3,070.0 30,700.0 3545.9 7,726.6  1304.6 h 15.9 46734.0 5,A.7 5,442.3  43074L4
t m                                                                                                               .0   405.0      -              -   97.0        -        -    2.1   670.1        -      -       -  1,299.7
lie-ta  33         MS 637     m3*1  ra                                                        19,750.0 212420.0 7,605.0  7,605.0 3,560.0 3,60.0 3,070.m 66.370.0 2m74.3 26492.9 1O,259.2 10,974.3 5,512.7 s5m39.6 542.3  M7U15M3
L. IWNIE MU TIU 8IEN3TIN I
EIlRlTlX                                 O        -   -    -   -   -   -                      325.0   32.0        -        -      -      -       -   65.0   370.4   3.3           -        -      -      -       -    7u.7
Urn  rAB1                                a        -                      -                    160.0   400.0   48.0   48.0         -       -      - 1,600.0   184.    604.0   64.2   694.7         -      -       -  24132.7
31EV tiNS                                91-1                                                             -   161.5   161.5       -      -       -    M.0         -       -   209.5   223.3       -       -      -    432-t
FIIO 33217  (32 NA)                      SW           -                                     2,325.0 2,i25.0 2Y825.0 2,325.0       -      -       - 11J30.9  J262.7 3!,55.0 3&QD.9 4t003.4         -      -       - 1b727.2
1*-Ma! t B*313 UIlOIS S               l  ,N32D. 3310.9  3,0.0 3J466.5  3466.!                                                        -      -       - 13,873.0  3,18.0  4554.3 4,679.  5,006.3       -      -      -3
C. sTif FUZEEC
EL                                       SUI     -   -   -   -   -   -   -     -                      9.*    7.   - -      -                     - 11M9.0  1,105.4  1179.         -        -      -              -  22153
313  I33                                 f        -   -80.9    00.8    80.8    8O.S                                               -       -      -   323.0    92.0    n.2   104.7   111.6         -      -       -    406.6
FM=13 I1.  (12 WI                           --                                              1212.5 1:212.5 1,212.5 1,212.5    -   -   - 4.U0.0 1. 1, l,474.3 1,572.3 1,676.5    - *                              - hs.3
MiTotal .W  ELIIMIVNT                                                                          2463.3 2,2633  s,293.3  1,29.3        -      -       - 7,113.0 M I  .?  2,752.  1,677.   ,73.1        -      -       - 6M.7
tOW  ZIESW   mm11                                                                                25,323.3 27,21J.3 I2I364.8 1234.8 3,560.0 3,560.0 3,070.0 r8736.0 2P9131.5 33,300.1 16,16  17,769.2 5512.7 S,m.6 5,442.3 114,17.3
tOUl                                                                                              25,3.3 .7,113.3 .12,4.9 12,364.8 3,560.0 3,s60.o 3,07 3.0 ro35.O 29,131.5 33800.1 U,616.3 !?,759.2 5,512.7 S,39.6 5,42.3 114,172.3
-  lb M e MU 3 



Pp.t
00?? ""in .F¢ 'o 9p-!
1i4.U *l ''-: sA 71o11o4ll:
.VP 0.ofa. tut0U.? 0106? J60t
an.... *... ..            00   '160I.    r72              Pr2     00      "4       071     026     V-     !.W6       "¶l    002      9        924     P-,    926      92?    tow
1.                                                                                'nfl  S. inS~Xt t.a...essins. tan.,. .n..- S.nr  , .-.a                            ..    a,n       n .tn.,..  fUeSl  t_d
L NOW mmllt
a. Cy. .n. FM_        00.1  g?. w I=   AO =m
nm?0 0U3             410 KM)                                                      P  f        . 2s.s 9.S 20.    -   -   -  :r   420   1.075. 122.07    12.171. t2,075.0      -        -       - 40.10.?   3.'a.' 1'.6?.2 0 2.0. 0,60-.-                          - 6b0 .
UUtWm, 01007 SW                                                                                                    -        0    o    3*0t0.0 3.tO.?  3.00.3 0 3.00.0         -               -  :,.t       3J0.0 I.770.2  &.VA  44.6 t              -           -    .5
*7su ses tr e sI -.M0e. 2.00e; 2.00.  '.ow?          2-2-0                   .O  2WA.t.  244   2745.L  2,344             --                      ;
Wll t   Otr.  iE. FMet            0 _ttT  . o0r N       . t4                                                              *.                                   .-o
e.    L0T KM. FM itEN a MM .. Cuna OF AM                   I WM.   ..M.    2-Mrs.130.? 2                                                                  =5?.?    *2   .                    *     9700      5-.   7 0.0070. 7t        S.29a    ..             - -  -0U
.TT0  LEl  IE                          - ao Nip46.021.2 1.2 0.2 0200.2    ?   2c    2                                                           4,284.2  4,3.   4..? 4*2t.0.  4.20..  4-214.0 20.35.   320Y.7  5X2SJ. 53         J9  I5T    0 .   .7).  7.0.  4
Ut=Mgi  SMT 7. IK                                       t                                      20 ZO 74      0? M 7t       200 1 0    4O.? 0.e.  ..                  .? t-200. 0 t.200.  0.60.? t24.0 1. S0. 1.4.                                          .0 17,13.7 03.   11 2,U7.1 U70
01.t M. I LIM   0Y,  g 1                        -W  . . gM,MUo)   4,                        -        *-                                 1 .'.-  1 -.000,0  0.0 1  6.06?0 1?0260 ?.? 10.600.?  000 304.?   1.03.?  2,6.42  2.228.? 2,37.9  2.30.1  2.7*0.9 o.J  I . 47
M- ;c4..0             T t.  z".   tral  nS Tl .             W .tJ.                   El                                                    0.16,? 5 .e 3.0  2.28?.? 2,e.280   3,280.? 2.280.? 2.0..?  17.000.?20.o  .6.. 30.o62 tuo.  3o.0  t., .2 -   .67?.wf h .  *4.t    449 4-     00..
C. b 0   III? CM 3 MM.      0 U # r    M   FT oauNM. 8                                                                                      ,66?&,660? 904.  9.00.  .00.  9084.?  9-.64.  -64.060.   7.411. 11,1004 t206.4  0.?1046.00464  U.700.  *0.003
0. .0 .01101_
tun- fa000104 M        i Am                                                     001    U.S 60  10.?g 10.0 000       - 0   470    '.016    7.0%00.  '.6.?  7,66.0 7.66.0                        3 - 28.60.   0,.O6.  10.312.3  ?,=     "M.106.0030.                4m.91.
t onI, 01. W  0l3  T           0    MM ICIC. Mt.                                VPt. ....6..?  2,.   240.  2,6tLt t                                                                            16. S  OD   204.9  3o.9.2-   30J2.2  1.746      0 t7.4
MO'o.00 4 060330541
2. t It a 00                                                                                                                                9.606.? *,6506.U ,00.   .65. 9.606.?       -       - a 20.0 1,0.0.001,0.34 a2.64   z3t0. 5 2a       14         -       -  3.46.
tM?. 01102409  wo                                                              0/9am  P          1 0   0   9 9           0   10       9,a00.?  N9.0?.  5,46?.1 4M.29.  3.0.0 3,0.?1.        -  6.4.?00.0 011 0.'149.  74.62.  s.3.2 11431.2 s0610.               941047
OM?. XI        l 319 AM)
PR t0t  .  r. M  u    TL a     to ttU no t3 _w.                                 */9                 ?2   6                                 e - 90   4?  3..  30 t.0 G 2.3?.? 0r ".5 t.400.     10,800 0.0  4.034 4,429.4 t.3 IMSt  4t.1  21  0 292 2,  .0          21,
01...00. .                                            2.126.  2,139.? 2.3??3..0 2,=*.     ?.?.  2.021.  2,20.0 0106.0    290.0   3,090.2  0.'34.1 0.672.?  Vf.03.1  3.32.   WC14? 3.30
3. elfgtttTt-tt*-7. FM.t MM.t ?0t.*.  '7'0.0  N3.0n   2 42L G   ,-Mt.0 a-,.3 !t1r3?. §. HAVA 13,.i^                                                                                                                                            1I.Ma.2 f^tUO    3-74L  fbff.3
tTmlUm  to NM)
.?. LM4. 0M2 wo                                                                         -   3 N  P  V   1       * ?  9   *2M     4,20t.?  ,4?.?  8,40.O 4,620.0  *.2t?.e 4,200?.        - 26,36?.?  4.0  0.28.'102        ..t S37.W   0.1179.  &.1l        -  1.36
Fe330. on,  ?. W UK   T1m   U.no  mm. IV                                        so       ? e              t   4   4s  e' 6   4?       1.9e?   ',9.?  1'.920.  0.0  0,610.0 0.60?.?           - 1004.   2'17.6 7;t   2.196.9  ',770? 2.601.3 2.t4               t-       0.4
tm  .    .    .    .    .    .    .      11M~2,30.C 23?.?  2401?2,9.t 2. N. 2.V2.              -'.044.  0,328.t 3,611.I 1,901U  0,192.1 4,212.  4.16.?               28.3.793
*-?o0.0 330.0.549.93 hUm  Oto  11066                                                                  9,01?.! 0~~~~~~.31?.? 12,212.! '.93?.?  0?!!.?  0.60?.!  62,t  0 M0 .' 01,2C,0.917370, 0.11?f 4001.012.0 13 003.4013 ..e 1.66.053S313
05400.0001)~~~~~                                                                  ~        ~    ~~~~~~~ *-r. -::*  ao. aJ.    w.t. -a .  r: *¢ 3..   e. .,f -*tw  - "6.2 *Jo      -2.   9.J .62.0  5.300
IOU? 03303*10300 M. FM-0 2 If M   M FA                                                                                                     ........ .....            . . .   . . ..... ....... . ....    -  .    . . _
OW.FN MO R*.VAAMm 40 pat (lo FORWM)                                                                        04~~~~~~~~~~~~.?.?;.?1.  3-61.002 60,71.2 21=."  *! 21,62.2 1'2,34.:1 33,2.0.06? N 0.-   1301.2 9?.1 O.N 32,?1.1   42,346d.0293,912.77 .0
TOW   ~~~~~~mlwl Mm                                                                                      .....~~~~~~~~~~~~... ln..rf. ....-...a ,n .*  .n...  .......  ..  -.-   ,a     nn.r...                               n 



T.b*. 17 PPO015E0r OF E50I. I Ma.
51tz,1:8 C. t '.021
1. DVEP" cam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. 4
1.~ 0 1
a.s CMSD                                                                   NO      -  .t 0.8          -   -    -         850          Me.  rn.0         -           --u   .- W         1,010.8   SOL.0        -   -       1- 0.
MI3Ca                                                                      N 00       0.'.3    - - - -               1  3100      : 10.0 9          .00- ::::            M              2M.3   II.' - -                      7.
311M. 031130?                                                                           -        -18--- ----230.0  150.0                                                5010.3          427.2   115.4   -   -   -   -    W2.8
ft-Tota 0 @   i 3111107118T                                                                                                        -   ,470.0  43.0    -   -   -   - 2,0100.              WMI74.    0.08    - - -             ,3.
2. Brm 03 0 
LM  am330S                                                                 ND      -.4 0.6                                M       85  - 01.0  310.0 - -        -   - 1,300,0        -1,115.6   53.0   -   -   -   -  W,11.8
FUR09 Ws                                                                    N         2.1 0.9                        3  100         0,050.0  430.0    -   -   -   - 1.530.0            I .31.5   38.2    -   -   -        1I,10.7
434a  10.0                                                                 00         3.5  0.5 - -                   5   O00    - 1A.O60 80.0   -   -   -   - 2,000.0                  1,706.7   731.5    - -   -   -    2,490.2
gm0  MATS a BlomS                                                          No         2.1 0.,-        -              1  80o          651.3  270.0         - -           -3   7914.5   143.4   -   -    -   - 1.J50A
38.  .100                                                                  so      - 0.1 8.9    -           -   -   23   35    -    63.5  241.5 - -   -   -             00. -           437.7   314.8    -   -   -   - 10042.1
raw00                                                                      No      -104          - -- --        -101             -   291.0038.0    .-.. .3M.3   16.1   -   -   -   -                                          29
Sub-Tato1 INmib a I M                                                                                                                 4,388.5 2,0116.5    -       - -1,5.             -594.2,2.             - -   -   -       .5.
3. M0FM  3E%U003
LM  a33I3                                                                  M0         1.4 0.8                        2  650    -    10.0  390.0 - -   -   - 1,300.0                   1 .110.8   500.0      -      -   - 1,808.
iSam9M                                                                     00       0.?'0.3    -                     1-80 -          210 t.010.0--    -   -3-1 l                   - 254.1   11'.2    -   -   -   -   373.
uinI miTS Elm OEM3                                                         go         2.1 0.0    -                   1    310    -    31.0  279.    -   -   -   -    303.0         -       .395   383.    -   -   -   - 0,037.9
3115, 1317S0.0                                                                                   . .       . .?      .               /M5. 0   105.    -   -   -   -   850.0        -   30.3  234.3    -   -   -   -   00.3
flu-Io0*1 ON FAW  303014                                                                                                              2,228.0  114.0    .   .   .   . 31100.0         -2.716,3  1.22.    -   -   -   - 3,S.4P
1.*TOW  FM 193390 M031000  MM 00 1                    f 330 MOMENT018                                                                 -0561.513,80.5            -         -2,223.3                             - 042, *3.   -      -   - 15,343.3
3.9FO FtMMIioT  S13.   1T310  AO gAIiv C3133ff 01. 4000[in. on
0. 93N FESgisouY SM
LM  M0S033                                                                 No         2.8  1.2 -   -   -   -    4  850             11820.0  750.    -   -   -   - 1,600.0           2- 22.3  2.908.0    -   -   -   - 3,23.3
*4 moms50                                                                  no         3.5  0.5   -   -   -   -    5  400    -  ,400.0  600.0    -   -   -   - 2,00W.-              -   .700? 730.5   -   -   -   - 2*49.2
mm1  ClOD                                                                  ND           7   3   -   -   -   -   13   35              214.010MA    -   -   -   -   350.0                  MO29.    M3e.    -   -      -      43.
2. 93I MM0. ADlE.t. 03131
4 00 0000.0                                                                No         5.8  2.4   -   -   -   -    3   4in          2.2140.0  960.0       --- -   20.                  2,733.9 0.353.5    -   -        - -,5.
mm001.0                                                                    0          5.82 3- -                          35      -10 .0304.0--                                            230.2109.-    -   -   - 30 .1
000-*4I FOR  1IT.  gAM  l, C3733                                                                                                      2.436.0 0,0*4.0    .   .   .   . 3,48C.0           2,173.1  1,350.9    -   -   -   -  ,3.
3. FM  ME  F100.0193013
400o 113130.5                                                              NO         5.8  2.4   -   -   -   -    0  4M            2,240.   080.0 - -   -   -    120 -                2,735.9  1,230.5    -   -   -   - 3,434.
Wm  dUS                                                                    le        MI 22.4 .    -   -   -   -   32   35            734.3  3M8.    -   -   -   - 1,120.c                 69         . - 9380-               - I..3, 05 .5
9000 81A50 00A E0345 M                                                                  7   '                       10  1.10    - 2.73.0  -30.0.           .       .   -30.      .   2*84.4 0*201.4    -   -   -   -    0.
Sub-Total Fgk M3  F111. 3031115                                                                                                       5:194.0 2M2.0                       ?.M- ,42.   -   ,333.1  2,1.    -          - - 2313.7
0.8-70*09 FM    S100t0TY. M15.18NM""0mm gaUlY 10073a91541. M  P"9.01on                                                                  1,- oo5.0 i0.75    -   -           - 35,50~ I    -1341.1 6,11.7 .              .        .    0 -IM .
low*  03098 mll-:089.5 0,125.5                                                                                                                                    --                       -233.99. IN.oil.    -   -   -   - 34.080.?  I
- ------ -.. ----- -t,                                           t   a    m   .asts    .
YoO.4                                                                                                             - 10,659.5 0,425 1   -   -   -   - 20,90          . 23,--1--1-1.1----- ----13--.-"----4----------------  ----34,--9.3...
Ortab" 12, M    DOW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  -.5,5.                              ~     n n , n -,a                a, nt t *f



Fla.ol  nu be Sim    ~ins
umm
66 8m            , I brd 2       wAt       I2    hmt    X2   Aauia        I   For. Euh.    lpa")         ton
A. LW  ACUflIT1U-                                                                                    -                                2,467.2120.,0   2.467.2  2.22,7.                             -
3. Re"  No8 rM11106T1N                                                                 26.210.            -                -                            116.1  0.1                     MI6.
C. 06268L1?T106O
1. CIV&i os
OdflS                                                                          5.60i.7  89.1                     3.9    S.8    2901.4  4.7  6o.m.i  1.7                -       6.333.1 
111001119                                                                      4,77.2 V7.6 &                     113.4    7,4    01.0,  4.6  11.119.?  10.1    2.33.l          7,246,4    330.0
E    9114 Fr-                                                                                                              2,066.1 106,6   2.016.1  2.0           -      2,006.1
990T1CT206 VMS                                                                   294.0  77.0        -     -       79.6   19.0      01.4  20.9     414.0  0.4           -         372.6     41.4
Sub-TOtal CMVINM S                                                               11.71.9 79.                  -   2270.1    6.4  2,044.0  14.6  I0020  26.0    3.45.1            11,971.5    199.4
Sub-Tat"  EO0ILITOUImN                                                              11,700.0  70.2        -          227.2    4.4  2,094.0  14.6  19,913.2  11.0    3.330.;        1,971,1    540.4
1. CIVIL  SM
EMAlMS                                                                         6,60.5104.2          -              7.4    0.1    147.8  1.0   7,014.21  6.2                     ,2.
1I10C01R391                                                                   11.163.0  V7.,        -             64.4    7.1    475.2  1.0  13,503.4  22.2            -       2,022.2    675.2
E68NTRIORK 4                                                                         -     -                         -       -  5.0d2.6 2060:   1,062.6  4.6                   5.062,6 
PROTECTION4 Ms                                                                 2,217.0 47.2         -    -     2,47.4   42.7    460.5  10.    4682I.0  .2              -       4 214 .    46.23
0,h-Tot3l CIVIL 181                                                              20,609.  486.4        -           ,019.7   22.0  6.53M.l  .117  30,202.9 27.2                   29,110.5  1,143.4
1,t-Tot~~~1 11980WJ114T1                                       20.619.4  60.4        -    -    3,019,7~~-3,  71.0  6,.152   2-1.7  l0 2629 7.2                 029.    .4.
E. EN830601AS 821111N6I00I                                                           1.0425.2  04.0            -                  -     566,o  20.0   5,600.7  5.1                  3 5sml7        -
F. ON FAN6 DEVEOPINT 00136
fERSM  L- SAL. OF FIELD STAFF Ad2 AfALMItM                                          410.6 06.0         -                              04.7 70.0      521.1  0.1           -         22.2 
011  0116. ClOt - 0 II P O TOMSPCRT,11MCE DUIIlI                                    249.1  06.0        -                       -      9.8  20.0      400.0  0.4           -        40.9 
Sub-TotU1 06 FM  000016048900ROEM                                                      017.0906.0         --                      -      04420.0   1.022.2  0.09                    1.02122
I. TOOIIICAL 6SS0STNa
CM0.1. 001 FOR (NKAM UV. MONi  1MINP. 0 1 a2                                           -    -  7,107.6 100.0            -      --                           A.V .6    .  4.2170. 2  2.9I0.3
CUlL?. 02220115FOR FE"ISIIL2T9 51228OF960 S22800CTS                                     -              -    -    3,409.2  200.0          -         3,409.2  2.1    1.921.?        1,167.5 
£0030.. WV,0 FORMN 45.    QUALITY Cmi  OF 806W    220M.                                 -        2,713.0 100.0          -      -         -    - 2,713.8  2.9    1,211.4          1.472.3         -
CMSLT. M02. FOR MOD W68, EVALUA1TION 1100I101        M2041101 T1110  hOT                -    -     746.7 100.0          -                      -     76.7  0.?        146.7        402.0
$J*-Tatal T0012o20 6S11STNL-                                                                    -  060.  7.3    3,409.2   24.7              -         4,147.3  12.?    7,6.         6511
9. 106212106 060 I'NF 10V02.MWST                                ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~474.3  13.09      2,040.3   06.1         -    - 3,436.6  !.1          705.3        72.
1.00002000624 OF0CO1P. 81M.
qRFE 904518L1T 1102100 MM2 19012010  MM1 lY NO8                                                     06.5  22.4      206.3    7.6    224.1  39.0      602.4  0,5       129A          V3.      234.5
FM 06 FA4 10V01014 FROWN                                                                -           7.6  61.0           -      -      47.1, 3.0      122.7  0.1        66.2          7.5      47.1
FOR I49Rl EIOTIE I 06IFTENOCE                                                                      209.6  61.6          -             34.0 31.0      243.6  0.3       206.3         21.3    234.0
Sub-Total 931.82114  OF E022. I 001.                                                      -     -      34.7 341        206.3  216.9    421.6 39.0   1,242.6  1.0         5.0           66.1    415.6
TOWPtal 61514  COST                                                                    42,943.6 33.0  11.021.8  14.1   1102.7?   14.1 132105.6  14.8  70.096,7  70.4   12.120.5       62,707,7  2,100.4
11. hWR404T C0115
6. 120081  IFUTIEm NM2 061811
1. SAL.. OF 191E2. STAFFI 13221A225NM. W62. I 06891M                             4,006.3  06.0        -    -                  -1,247.2  20.0   1,235.4  1.6                     621,23         -
2. 0l1I2ENA1C VORK
P0151  HANITINC- EA0T1118S 956                                                         -           -    -           -          622.3 100.0   6.229,3  1.1             -       6,120,1                           -
900084110 NM2 OM01 9010010 46121121                                                          1 -    1.156  20.6    2,666,6   67.2    31043  2,0   3,406.4  4.9     69.2       5.419,2        -
0a0-ota 0618T01     WORK                                                               -         .9.   1.7    3,66.         t2.8  -6.1.3  5-4.15 24872.                02      2.3,
060-Toutl 1Mr12  WOMTIE E 0611T88                                                    ,6.  2801591.6  8.             1,1666.6   20.7  7,1776  42.1  27.812.  14.2         79,3     27,274.9        -
8. 062l41221  Mm31   IfTwiE
9EgtSU00 63 93      C10101IsOUNlo W9 811TRUCUR8                                1,097.1  7.6         -    -        0.2    2.7  1.497.2  19.7   7.196,9  6.0             -       759,71-
9320610 06141. imoim   "v                                                              -    -                                     7,421.3 106.0   7,421.2  6.7           -       7,421.3
90TOtal 06AIIfA4  M4M1  CUIUETIU                                                    1,897.1  39.2 3                   102.2    1.3  8,910.1  10.4  11.020,2  23.-                 2S.028.         -
TOtW  EUT  Mm0201.  3-3.2  0401.6 -4.8l    2,86.6    1,  16,406.2 00.2  32.4624  0?.6                                                                                       14.2      32.79.1         -
Toal ftblgba,mo                                                                        53,129.1  48.5  12.623,3  11.4   14,014.5130.12 29.602.7 26.7  12.19,W0 120,2   12,2097         46,000.9  2,200.4
Jai. 12,.113 08134



-114-
ANNMX 9
Table 2
BANGLADESB
BVDB SYSTEMS RECHAILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Credit Allocation
Percentage of
Expenditures
Category                          Allocated       to be Financed
1.  Civil Works                           32.5                95S
2.  Surveys and Investigations             0.1              lOOS
3.  Engineering and Administration         4.5               100l
4. Operation and Maintenance              11.0              1002 through PY95,
80S in FY96, and
501 in FY97
5.  Training and Staff Development         0.4                100l
6. Utallocated                             5.4
Total                               53 9
September 29, 1989



-llS-
ANNEX 9
Table 3
BANGLADESH
311D  SYSTIS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year          Semester          Disbursements           Disbursements
-------------USS million------------
1991                        I                  4.0 1/                   4.0
II                 1.0                      5.0
1992                        I                  3.0                      8.0
1I                 2.3                     10.3
1993                        I                  6.0                     16.3
II                 5.7                     22.0
1994                        I                  6.5                     28.5
II                 5.5                     34.0
1995                        I                  4.4                     38.4
II                 4.0                     42.4
1996                        I                  3.0                     45.4
II                 2.3                     47.7
1997                        I                  2.3                     50.0
II                 2.0                     52.0
1998                        I                  1.9                     53.9
1/ Initial deposit in the Special Account.
January 18, 1990



BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS RtEHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement Schecdij for Civil Works
AFPM     SUMPNT5M
WIt     ai an cam  (4MM)      Los    5.2
2 Cw4k.b
3 m
3   b.m&int-                 LCF    2.5
I Cu*dra
Nm  S ~~~tm   M              LOS    15.9
2 Ckwhiac (P3)                  C      266  
P ~4   Vs                      La      .1                                                                                                                           -
I COMMA                                                                                                                                                              i-aiiwi
3. WMS  KA  TRAUWG 
ab Imusmi Vfdw a (kum*   iam      2.8
1 Oa*                                                U          a 
I C.*t....,
4.C   OLM 64 VsB
Rwoflim- Sbuct,-g (2  o.         Lam    6.9
6 ca*acta
& CEP PM am MALm                   9.
al M w Mim6,eoe (65 Noe.)    Lam    6.2
6 C.*tII.I 
bi~~~ E~~~~~t ~Lam    1?7
3 com*btI      111
we M-  6kiuvs Om5 NML)           Lam    11.0
6. CEP   6A
ft*skw,. (is Ng                LCB    10.4
3 Caf~tea
POCL0ArT ACTOiS                                                                                 %Th0 Or0Mr"
2'*dwnsdigIaN.&N  aqnms            7C dawing -A  0010.0"to             CA IIO cC=m. 1= 5 a
3 OA  iwne fspeagm  WeN ac  to 7A    S   I  - of reamrvtft  o t.sg.mo VAA   Icar6  SOO    o=b L  La i.u    m
4 i~ mnam fo as                    Sa fmo 0at8                            12 Comwbucoga  o om



BANGLADESH
BWIDB SYSTEMS REHABLUTATlON PROJECT
Procur*ment Scheduleo for Clvi Works (contd)
N -~~~~~~~~AN
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  N-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ui~                                           ..       
PLO   COMN. &* RM
1 -. i
OSftum  I vm eS 
I Oi.81.d
FLOO   a ONeOM  AKW   aIIM
ebU,ti                      LOS   200 
MP 2 Cm*=%                                                         I S   24
ENSI,aoo                     LOS   81 S
t~~~Wine ~~~~~LOS   2468
* ooks                                                                                                                                    4  
LOS  5843
60 cIulkof
WaaOm. AMC                                                                            AnNTOW OF  S
It =                   :~~~~6114=n    mm mm S mBom O"meA I 0 2"FASN8Im M eavibM  LW I l
a                     ~~~~~~~7 A  Gm.  recl  Bdm  bDA     It comuikn 7IB
4   ld                            6 wd1 0.ubolm BOm                                                                                             f



BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABLITATION PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Clvil Works (cont'd)
WSAIM  S ~  ~     WN                              IOlmlw                                    M
n ~      ~_ vi"Go1i-LI I                               10     I w -1 A i  I             =;L  I           ._L  I  L i  -  iLL._ I-    .      I
two sfwucumum    ara
1( 1 t 411i  iiii
flbl
adm  !!z=                                                                    2n^!m Y  !w !m  .  I
_n GuSa
INS  .,        -CB   0 2e.2                     *^_        r_Xe  o D                         XL
IC OSoSwm                    CBJI
s m   3 MVrsbC                        8
LaB U Gsflo                 LCS    W9O"m                                                                                   N
E=s"l_Tei _dr,              L_   17361 _ Tete|a
mo c canC
.inominwwnmrn                                                       n~~~~~~~~~~~~roe m pcaa
US Ss.  sues..a a aces.f    ? CA eas.  reoouflAsIs f CA         I I                                                                             ImS  SeS
I. na                      a Auem.iWOsam COMO"                               saisAhOO
k*w/.4880bW



ANNSE 11
-119-                             XAb1e .
BANGLADESH
SWOB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS /a, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION /b
Subproject: Buri Toesta Irrigation
Area, ha           Yield, m.t/ha       Production, m.t
Crop        P       W              P              W      P    a/c       U
B.Aus.LV  2,290  2,061  2,290   1.20   1.20   1.20  2,?49  2,473  2,748
TAusLV      340    306    340   1.30   1.30   1.30    442    398    442
TAusHYV     250    225       0   2.80   2.80   2.80    700    630         0
TAianLV   2,660  2,394  1,740   1.70   1.70   1.90  4,522  4,070  3,306
TAranLIV  1,410  1,269  2,240   1.80   1.80   2.00  2,538  2,284  4.480
TAmanHYV    290    261  2,090   2.80   2.80   3.50    812    731  7,315
BoroHYV        0      0    100   3.00   3.00   3.70        0       0    370
Jute      1,620  1,458    990   1.40   1.40   1.40  2,268  2,041  1,386
WheatHYV    250    225  1,000   1.80   1.80   2.50    450    405  2,500
Pulses       60      54     60   1.00   1.00   1.00       60      54     60
Potato       190    171    190   7.00   7.00   7.50  1,330  1,197  1,425
Vegetable   290    261    290   6.00   6.00   6.50  1,740  1,566  1,885
Tobacco     630    567    630   1.00   1.00   1.00    630    567    630
Kaon         150    135    150   1.00   1.00   1.00    150    135    150
Total    10,430  9.387 12,110                         18,390 16,551 26,697
Note:  P - Present
0 - Without Project
W - With Project
________________
/a Cropping intensity increase from 1.72 without project to 2.00 with
project and change from paddy local varieties to paddy HYU and crop
diversification is estimated to occur in seven years
/b  Without the project it is expected that the production will decreasu
2X the first year, 4X the second year, 61 the third year, 8X the
fourth year and 10X starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.
August 21, 1989



ANNE 11
-120-                             Table 2
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS /a, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION /b
Subproject: Pagner Haor Boro Protection
Area, ha           Yield, m.t/ha       Production, m.t
Crop         P              W      P       W      W       P      I/c     W
B.AusLV        0      0    150   1.30   1.30   1.30         0       0    195
T.AusLV      750    675    450   1.70   1.70   1.70  1,275  1,148    765
T.AmanLIV   200    180    200   1.80   1.80   2.00    350    324    400
T.AmanHYV      0      0    300   2.70   2.70   2.90         0      0    870
B.Aman    9,570  8,613  9,670   1.60   1.60   1.60 15,312 13,781 15,472
BoroLV    6,000  5,400  4,500   2.20   2.20   2.40 13,200 11,880 10,800
BoroHYV      520    468  2,520   3.00   3.00   4.00  1,560  1,404 10,080
Jute         540    486    540   1.40   1.40   1.40    756    680    756
Pulses       150    135    250   0.70 8.70   0.70    105           95    175
Oilseeds    150    135    150   0.60   0.60   0.60         90     81      90
Potatos      300    270    300   9.00   9.00   9.00  2,700  2,430  2,700
Vegetable   240    216    240   5.00   5.00   5.00  1,200  1,080  1,200
Groundnut    90      81      90   1.50   1.50   1.50    135    122    135
Chillies    100      98    100   1.20   1.20   1.20    120    108    120
Total    18,610 16,749 19,460                         36,813 33,132 43,758
Note:  P = Present
W - Without Project
W - With Project
________________
/a Cropping intensity increase from 1.08 without project to 1.13 with
project and change from paddy local varieties to paddy HYV and crop
diversification is estimated to occut in six years period.
/b Without the project it ia expected that the production will decrease
2 the first year, 4% the second year, 6X the third year, 8Z the
fourth year and 10X starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.
August 21, 1989



ANNEX 11
-121-                             TablW   3
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS /a, YIELDS AND PRODUCTION /b
Subproject: Polder 55/1
Area, ha           Yield, m.t/ha       Production, m.t
Crop         P      W       W      P       a      W       P    W /c      W
B.AusLV   2,079  1.663  2,079   1.10   1.10   1.18  2,287  1,830  2,287
T.AusLV     794    635    500   1.60   1.60   1.60  1,270  1,016    800
T.AusHYV      87     70  1,000   3.00   3.00   3.00    261    209  3,000
B.Aman        45     36      45   1.50   1.50   1.50       68     54      68
T.AmanLV  4,212  3,370  3,212   1.73   1.73   1.80  7,287  5,829  5,782
T.AmanHYV      9      7  1,009   3.25   3.25   3.25        29     23  3,279
BoroLV       288    230    288   2.00   2.00   2.00    576    461    576
WheatHYV       9      7       9   1.80   1.80   1.80       16      13     16
Pulses       959    767    959   0.70   0.70   0.70    671    537    671
Oilseeds    279    223    279   0.60   0.60   0.60    167    134    167
Potatos      109     87    109   7.50   7.50   7.50    818    654    818
Vegetable   100      80    100   5.00   5.00   5.00    500    400    500
Chillies    120      96    120   0.60   0.60   0.60        72     58      72
Total     9,090  7,272  9,709                          14,022 11,218 18,036
Note:  P   Present
W = Without Project
W - With Project
________________
/a  Cropping intensity increase from 1.17 without project to 1.24 with
project and change from paddy local varieties to paddy HYV and crop
diversification is estimated to occur in six years period.
/b  Without the project it is expected that the production will decrease
4X the first year, 8% the second year, 12% the third year, 16% the
fourth year and 20% starting the fifth year.
/c  Crop production without the project in the fifth year.
August 21, 1989



-122-                              ANX   11
Table 4
BANGLADESH
BWOB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS /a. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION /b
Subproject: Polder 64/1A
Area, ha           Yield, m.tlha        Production, m.t
Crop         P      W       W       P      W       W      P    W/c        W
8.AusLV   1,3SO  1,080  1,320   1.17   1.17   1.20  1,S88  1,264  1,584
T.AusLV      650    520    900   1.25   1.25   1.50    813    650  1.350
T.AusHYV    S00    720    928   2.00   2.00   2.00  1,800  1,440  1,840
T.AmanLV  1,400  1,120  1,330   1.86   I.P,    1.90  2,604  2,083  2,527
T.AmanLIV   980    720    920   2.20   2.20   2.20  1,980  1,584  2,024
T.AmanHYV 1,150    920  1,730   2.80   2.80   2.80  3,220  2,576  4,844
BoroHYV      450    360    458   3.20   3.20   3.20  1,440  1,152  1,440
Pulses       380    304    400   0.61   0.61   0.61    232    185    244
Oilseeds    200    168    258   0.61   0.61   0.70    122          98    175
Potatos       70     56    100   8.00   8.00   8.00    560    448    808
Vegetable   200    160    108   6.58   6.50   6.50  1,300  1,040    658
Total     7,650  6,120  8,420                          15,658 12,528 17,478
Note: P - Present
W - Without Project
W - With Project
/a  Cropping intensity increase from 1.66 without project to 1.83 with
project and change from paddy local varieties to paddy HYV and crop
diversification is estimated to occur in six years period.
lb  Without the project it is expected that the production will decrease
4% the first year, 8% the second year, 12% the third year, 16% the
fourth year and 20% starting the fifth year.
/c  Crop production without the project in the fifth year.
August 21, 1989



ANX 11
-123-                             Xable 5
BANGLADESH
SWOB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREAS /a, YIELUS AND PRODUCTION /b
Subp.oject: Polder 64/18
Area, ha           Yield, m.t/he       Production, mt
Crop         P      W       W      P       W      W       P    W/c       W
T.AusLV   i.140    912  1.140   1.27   1.27   1.30  1,448  1,158  1,482
T.AusHYV  2,575  2,060  2,575   1.87   1.87   2.00  4,815  3,8S2  5,150
T.AmqanLV    850    680    850   1.58   1.50   1.90  1,275  1.020  1,615
T.AmanLIV 1,160    928  1,160   1.80   1.80   2.20  2,088  1,670  2,552
T.AmanHYV 3,660  2,9Z8  3,660   2.60   2.60   2.80  9,516  7,613 10,248
BoroHYV      510    408    510   3.20   3.20   3.20  1,632  1,306  1,632
WheatHYV      10      8      10   2.20   2.20   2.20       22      18     22
Pulses        90     72    285   0.60   0.60   0.60        54     43    171
Potatos       70     56    170   8.00   8.00   8.00    560    448  1,360
Total    10,065  8,052 10,360                          21,410 17,128 24,232
Note:  P - Present
W - Without Project
W - With Project
________________
/a  Cropping intensity increase from 1.78 without project to 1.83 with
project and change from paddy local varieties to paddy HYV and crop
diversification ia estimated to occur in five years period.
/b Without the project it is expected that the production will decrease
4Z the first year, 8X the second year, 12X the third year, 16% the
fourth year and 20X starting the fifth year.
/c Crop production without the project in the fifth year.
August 21, 1989



-124-                                                             =
Table 6
M  SYSTJS MMIUMTL80 WilECT
ra  WRiET: in  Teesa IrnrphtiuSbprojeci, 1 hectare
i. iusT. hu 1. us    T. bu T.  m nT. kmw   oro  Jute  litu Puises Pota- Ueg- Tobicco U;.N    Totul uiW-(A   Ca  J/a
L    iU      i.   UV    INU    tU WutU                   toes  tables                           Cost
Percenage   P 21.86   3.26  2.d  25.50  t3.52  2.78   0.00  15.63   2.40   0.58  l.2   2.7i  6.0S  I.    100.00
1  18.91   2.80   .00l   11.57  18.50  17.26  0.83  8.18   8.26  0.50   1.57  2.39  5.20   1.24   I00.00
Orea, hI    P  0.38  0.06  0.01   0.1   0.23   0.05   00   0.27   0.01   0.01   0.03  0.05   0.10   0.02          1.72
u   0.38   0.0d6  0.0   0.29  0.37   0.35  0.02  0.16   0.1?  0.01   0.03  O.S  0.10   0.02    2.0d
Production Costt, k A
.Ator       P  1,11J   187   153  1,461    77    177        0  1,    160    22   171   212   692    50   6,269   4,388   1,801
'! 1119    186      0    957 1,232  1,3f1    64   6        672    22   198   230   693    50   7,132    5,20          2229
Dulloca     P    05   105   103   822   136   12G           0   672    103    19    7d   120   260    46   3,519   2,512    1,077
'    709   105      0   539   691   66i    47   `109         32    19    id   131   260    17   4,342    3,039    1,303
SeeW        P   30       20    17    13    79   17          0    28 1            3   25      38    57       I      7(                777
I   307    20       0    93   112   136         6    17    I75      3    25    38    57         1   I,021             1,421
Pesticide  P       0      0     10  107    57    12         0      0     10      0    11    16   51         0      273               273
iJ     0     0      0    70    90    Si         i     0     i0      0     11    16    51        0      406               06
ikea        P   79    21    39 2             22   10        0    11     21       0    20  30        7       0      832               d32
U     79    21      0   181   233  326         17   86    191       0    20    30  87           09,271                I,271
liP         P      0    11    IS   139    73    21          a     12     16      0    l    15    19        0      392               352
J      0    11      0    111 11611                  269    31        0  90  9S  49              0      673              673
MP          P      0      0      1    I2       6     t      0     i      2      0      5      5    23      0       71                A
I      0     0      0    16    10    31         1     9      Is      0     5      5    23       0      I22              i22
Irnrtion  P        0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0      0      D     0      0        0                 0
l       0   0      0      0      0      0      3     0       0      a     0      0      0      0       a3               83
Total       P 2,202   31t   337 2,913  1,518   390          0  9,952    360    1    322   437  1,219       98  12,206   6,901    5,305
U  2,215   313      0 1,970  2,5t7 2,918   231  1,213  1,698    t1   356   166  9,220          98  15,350   8,242    7,108
Prodution ialue
Prdueizon    P    151    73    3   716119 131               0   376   7t  18   219  287 10                 25   3,000
(kg)     4    451    73       0   516   710 1,208    61   229    413    90   236   311   904    25   1,109
6ross  alue P 2,57    108   46  1,175  2,3t1   750          0  2,710    435    51   193   689 2,337   121  17,U08
(TkO     U  2,542   408       0 3,058  4,11  6,766    3t1  1,619  2,416    3t   530   746 2,310    121  25,119
Mei ram Inom,  k Ic
P  324    65   12 5,262    79    360           0   717   75    10   171 252    1,119    26   S,301
U    326    61      0 1,8   1,597 3,818   113   437    718    90   I73   279  9,i26    26   9,770
/a hred labor and bullock 30E of total cost
Ab laor, bulock, sees, fetlizs, pestiide  ad ouput pces ein m                     92 Table 2. iiwy of fiunci  and Eco        Primes
lc Eiludng n-  cab cost.
Includg the faul  laor ad faers  n iulloci tfart im  is 1k IZ,202  ,im   present (P) ad ik 98,011 vath the prect () conditions.
' 21



-125-                                                           ANNe 7
Table 7
IULESi
UM1  SYSTB    I  IHi    liT MOKETI
fill NMKI: P w   r Ibre ProtectiLm Subproject, I nectSre
h. nu 1. inT. ihwT.   udW. hfn  6ere  foro  jute Pulses   Oil- Ptr-  Uege- 6rowd-Ehillie  iTo               l m-a   Cash /a
LU     L      U V  W                    IU                 Set   toes      tbli mas
Percte   P  0.00   4.03   1.07  O.bO  Sl,t2  32.24   L79   2.90  0.1   0.01   1.61   1.29   0.18   0.51   100.00
ii  0.77   2.31   1.03   1.54  49.69 23.12  12.95  2.77   1.20   0.77   1.54   1.23   0.16   0.51   100.00
Area. is     P0.00   0.04   0.01   0.00   0.56   0.35   0.03  0.03  0.01   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.01   0.01         I.08
U   0.01   a      0.01   0.02   0.56   0.26  0.15   0.0   u.01   0.01   0.02   0.01   0.01   0.01      1.13
Production Cait ilk lb
Llbor        P      0O30    39          0 1,fi  1,04       112    129     13   2i    976              12     12   3,329   2,331        999
U     23    7d    39    65 1,6777O   546   129   22    1 9 7 97                          12 13   2   3,66    2,%        1,670
Bdiock       P      0     02      2     01,01    6f3        75     70    16    16       49    26    10    11   2,0a0    1,456          624
U     16   19    22       *  1.5 ,6h        0412      70    27      I6    19    26    !0    Il   2,302    1,611           691
ee           P      a     It     4      0    451    113    II       t      2      4    30       0      2      0      653               653
U      7      0      4     7    156    eS    55        4      4      4    30       0      2      0      683               683
Pesticdes   P       0     3       I     0      042           ?      B      0      0 a           3      0      0       67                67
U      0      3    3       4      0    32    36        0      0      0      0      3      a      0       89                09
brea         P      0    23      6      u      a   103    32    26         0      0    11      12      3      3      290               29d
i      2     14      7    22      0  266   230    26           0      0     11   12       3      3      535               535
TS          P      0     14      I      0      0    110   14        7      0      0      6      6      2      1      164               164
U      0      8     5   11        0   103  10          7      a       0     6       5     2       I     253               253
1U           P      0      1      0     0          I19       2      3       0      0     3      2      0      0       30                30
U      0      1     1      2      0    29    24        3       0      0     3      2      0      0       63                63
Totai        P     0   269   76         0 3,I11  2,160   255  255         32          205  125    20         27   6,6U    3,786   2,035
U     is   161   0s   154 3,196  1.721  1,407    255          53    40   205    124    20       27   7,492    4,10    3,304
Prodution Ualue /e
Production                74    21      0    89   766    90   14            6     5   156    70        0      7   2,136
(k)    U      11     *      23    Sr   890   627   585    44           10     5    157    69       0      7    2,540
iross Wlue  P       0    414   116      0 t,976 4,290       06   316       33    79    430   167   117    76   11,520
(Tk)    1      63   219   130   203 5,031  3,511  3,270    316        51     70   431    167   117    75  13,703
Ikt fa  Inm, Tk 'c
P      0  116   41         0 I,825 2,130  251    61            1    39   226   43        d      494 ,99
U     15    87    50   129 1,H5 1,787 1,871           61       2    39   226    42    89   4t   6,291
/a kred labor and block 301 of total cM
lb Lar, bullock, seeds, fertilizers, peticides and output pries ae in Aex 12 Tale 2, Swvv of f'nmncl and [comc Pice.
/c Excluding mn cas cst.
Including the talrly lar and fres am bullock tm uome is Tk 8,685 wider  rst (P) and 7k 10,399 vith the project I) conditis.
eIust Z2, 1969



AMX 11
-126-                                                          -able -
1 S%STISi i MIIUTI. RwOEiT
r1  UNO: Polue 551 % Arject, I hectare
i. lvi  T .AN  fUs O..ih n.m  r.&M    bra  uet Pulse   oil  Potr- Vegr  bille  Total NM-Lash CI {              Ia
.U    LV   MI             L    IWU      L    NN          ses  toes  tables                       ot
Percentage   P 22.67   873   0.96  0.50  46.3$   .10  3.17  0.10  10.55  3.07   1.20   1.10   1.32   100.U-
U  21.1I   5.15  10.30  0.46 33.00  10.39  2.97  0.09   9.M8   2.6?   1.12   1.03   1.2  1:00.00
srea, bi        0.2?  0.10  0.01   0.01   0.51    .00  A0.    li   0.12  0.01   0.01   0.01   0.02       1.1?
U   0.27  0.06  0.13  0.01   0.41   0.13  0.04   .00   0.12  0.04  0.01   0.01  u.02         1.24
Prodaton Lost, Tik A
Labor       P   699     W            15  1,417      I    97       I    2768  0  79    72            5   2,5 9  ,IOS         774
"   69    191   ??        15 1,072 13    96          I 71         0 0       81 W     ,52   2,977   2,N         893
bullock     P   SO    192   28    11 1,01?          3    70       3    231    67    35    24    42   1,121    1.275         546
i    498   120   319    11   769   322    69         3    230    6?    35    24    29   2,108    1,175         632
Seed        P   218    33       I      5   190      0    12       1    31    16    31        8      1     462               672
U   216    21    51       5   162    45    12        1    34    16    31         d     0      511              511
Pesicdes  P        0      0     3      1  132       0      9      I      0      a     a      5      0     145               211
U     0      0    31       1   100    31       9     1      0      0      0      5     0      173              173
ike.        P    56    3d       9      1   199       1    lt      I      0      0     9      8      9     31i               162
U    56    23   107        I   151   108    14       1      0      0      9      8     6      460              40
isp         P      0     20     I      1   12d      0 1         0        0     0      3      $      I     16$               239
U     0    13    45        1    97    16    10       0       0     0      3      t     2      212              212
P           P      0      0     0        015         0     l      0      0      0      2     1      0       16               2t
U     0      0      4      0    11      7      1     0      0      0      2      I     0       23               23
Total       P  1.,75    587    91    35 3,0         9    i22    10    52   164   15   122   131   S,507   3,080   2,928
U  1,163   367 1,034    34 2,361   J92   211    10   538   162   167   131    90   6,'64    3,559   2,901
Productin Value
Prodcion  P   29    163   34             9389       4   7         2  111       22   105    64    13   1,516
()    U   22   102   383           9   738   419    74        2    116    21   101    64        9   2,017
6ross Waue P 1,648   915   189    495 ,253    21   $15    12    578   323   290   154   116   8,191
(TOk    U  1,6;5   572 2.116    48 4,135 2,345   412    12    593   320   286   153   100  11,293
let fTn Inc., 1k /c
P   174  32    9    1        2,155   1220            2      56   160   131    32    16   2,981
U    172  2051  ,111      11,7731,352 2I51 2         i      S     l 119         22    11  4,830
a lhred labor and bullock 301 of total cost.
Ab iAr, bullock, seeds, fertilizers, pe     des and outp  pnces are in nex 12 lable 2, Saway   of fnuiai and Ecuc Priecs.
/c Excluing m cash cost.
Including the fauly labioad fw s ao  bullock la  in c n 1sTi 6,064 umer praent (Pi and 1k 8,389 vith the prject () conito.
2iZstz2, 198g



ANE  11
-127-                                                         Table 9
UI  SYSII  EIIIuTTISI NOJEI
f11 M6O: Pold  64/1  iproject, I hotae
0. &   1. iun 1. da   T. Ihal.h  1. hw    ero Pisr s   Oili- Poit   kge-    otai IonCasm   Csh ia
Lu    LU  lik  LU    LIV WiI         NIU          xesas tOs tais                  Cost
Percentage   p 17.65   .50  11.76  18.30  11.76  15.03  3.88   4.97   2.61   0.92   2.61   100.00
U  15.68 10.69 10.93 15.80 10.93 20.55  5.34   4.75   2.97   1.19   1.19  100.00
ira  ha    P  0.29  0M1   L.i0  0.30  0.20  0.25  0.10  0.19  0.04  0.02  0.04    1.66
U   0.29  0.20  0.20  0.29  0.t2  0.38  0.10  0.09   0.05  0.02   0.02          1.83
Produchon Cost. Tk ea
Labor       P   766  41   619  907   656 8               364   169   97    97   162   4,572   3,200   1,372
U   7r0   58    635   863   672 1,263   365   17d    I2    138    81   5,132   3,593   1,540
Oullack     P   549   265   4        570   366   624   2"    155    el    38    Si   3,105   2,174            932
U    538   367   S00 SW   4    375   940   24    163    102    54    41   3,507   2,455   i,052
S           P 23   46  7   9963   7  37  23  19  34  26    640                                                648
U    233    64    8       94    65   132    37    24    24    48    13           704              701
Pestcides   P      0      0   24      74 s4        1      24      0      0     0 11          230              230
U     0      0    24    70    49    92    24         0      0      0      5     259               259
thea        P    61   52  1        159    102  157    61          0      0    11    27       747              747
U    60    72   157   152   105   23?    62          0      0     16    It      844               6
TsP         P      0    28      6   72       54   79      39      0      0     4    14       318              ;Se
U     0    39    47    69    55   119    39          0      0      5      7     367               376
I'          P      0      0     5      8      5    14      5      0      0      1     4       3d               38
U     0      0i     5     8      5    21       5     0      0      2      2      45               i5
Total       P  1,615   812  1,415  1,i9  1,295  I,860    77    3147   197   185   324   9,658   5,374   4,204
U  1,581  1,125  1,449 1,790  1,326 2,803   775  .365   248   263   163  10,85    6,017   4,811
Productio  Vlue
Poducion  P   343   176   390   U665   49   699   312    66    26   122   282   2,915
(Ka)    U   344   254   400   549   440 1.053   313    70    38   17    142   3,354
6ress alue  P  1,920   90  2j186  3,164  2,405  3,912  1,7Pi    355   396   336   67   16,324
(TO)    U  1,928 1,424 2,240  3,076 2,464 5,89? 1,751    374   571   479   348  18,781
iet tfanlf Im, ki /c
P   305   176   m   1,275 1,110 2,0Q    97           a    199   151   352   6,666
U   347   299   791 1,2m   1,138 3,094   976         9   323   216   177   7,923
a tired labor and block 30  of to     ot.
A  LAor, bullock, sees, fertlue, pesticdes ard  u             pnce rem a hn i x 12 TWle 2, ew y of fin uc   and Ecic Pnces.
ic Ecludng am  csh cost.
Iocludiqg tl tfly labr and fars-  b llock ta              e mm    7il2,H04  aier present (P) and Tk 13,970 uath the project (U) condition.
_st 22, 1909



AMNE 11
-128-                                                         Table lO
No
&Ii SYSEI RHS16iLItATiWOi P80JLCI
FMI hiT: Poiiwr 64/18 Sbproject, I heire
T.Pis    i. i     T.Pe i   i .&wn T.t.i &        dro       Un eat   Pulses Potatots      iotal Hon&C-h  Cash a
LU      iV         U        IIU      Wu        iwU       WYU                                   Cost
Perceuta    P     11.33    25.58 i     .45    11.I3 6..36          5.07       0.10     O.9       0.70    100.00
U     11.00    24.86      8.2v    11.20    35.33       4.92      0.10      2.S      1.64    100.00
Are  ha    P       0.20     0.46      o.1s      0.Z1     0.65      0.09        .00     0.02      0.01      1.78
U     0.20      0.15      0.15     0.20      0.65      0.09       .0       0.05     0.03       1.83
Production Cost. ik /b
Labor       P       602    1.360       19        613    2,171       337         7        33        70     5,512    387s9   1,663
U      601    1,359        18       612    2,172        33b         7       103      168      5,535    3,875    1,661
BulloC      P       378    1,138       282      38      1,618       226         4        30       31       ,031     2,2.2    1,209
U      377    1,137       281       381    1,616       225          5        94       75      4,026    2,819    1,288
Sd          P        66       182       19       70       22.7                  2         i        27       629                629
U       65       182        49       7C       226        34         2        14       66        628                628
Pestides   P          0       55        37       so       158        14          I        o        0        3"                 311
U        0        55       37        so       157       4f          I         0        0        344                341
Ore         P        74      287        79       86       107        57          I        0                 991                991
U       71       286       94        86       407       57          1         0       19      1,005              1,0is
TSP         P        10      126        36       57       179        36          I        o        3        473                -i7;
U       t40      1f        tl        81       255       36          1         0        7        598                5s9
IIP         P         0        12        t        6        36         5          0        0         I        63                 63
U        0        12        4         6        35         5         0         0        3         63                 63
lotad       P     1,160    3,161       935      ,266    4,798       738         16       67       It0    12,074    6,701    5.372
U     1,158    3,176       9W5    1,289    4,870        736        16       212      338    12,199    6,693    S,S06
Production almue
Prodectin   P       256      851       226       369    1,683       289          t       13       100     3,678
(Kg)     U       262      910       285      451    1,810        288          t       40       26O     4,010
6ross Vble P    1,t34    4,769    1,263    2,069    9,423         1,61?        23        68       274    20,598
(Tk)     U    1,465    5,09S    1,597    2,525    10,138       1,613         24      217       660    22,457
Net ram Inc, 1 k Jc
P      274    1,6         328       803    4,625       879          7        2       134      8,524
U       308    1,919       642    1,237    5,268        877         7         5       32     10,258
la hred labo and bullock 30 of total cost.
b Lsbor, bullo, seeds, fertilizs, p esticid  and output pric es are in Am   12 Table 2, S5wy of finacia and Econc Pnces.
C Excluding n  casb coi
lwluding the faul  lbor and fanwrs co bdlock fam tow  is Tk 15,225 u_r jwesmt (P) and 1k 16,951 uith the project (U)
_.t 2, 19



-129-
ANNEX 12
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SWOB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
DERIVATION OF ECONOMIC PRICES
Rice    Wheat       TSP       MP
Import Parity                                            (USS/n.t)
Projected FOB 1995/2000 Price a/        227.10   148.92   193.12   100.00
Quality Factor                            0.75     0.90      1.00      1.00
Adjusted FOB Value                      170.33   134.03   193.12   100.00
Freight Insurance b/                     38.00    70.00    66.00    66.00
Value CIF Chittagong                    208.33   204.03   259.12   166.00
(Tk/m.t)
CIF Chittagong, US$1-Tk.32.30          6728.90  6590.10  8369.58  5361.80
Port taxes, handling  c/               1120.00  1120.00  1120.00  1120.00
Transport, storage, handling d/         319.00   319.00   319.00   319.00
Value, market, store                   8167.90  8029.10  9808.58  6800.80
Transport, handling e/                   96.00    96.00    96.00    96.00
Sub-total                              8071.90  7933.10  9904.58  S896.80
Processing Ratio                          0.62      0.90     1.00      1.00
Farmgate Price                         5004.58  7139.79  9904.58  6896.80
Export Parity                             Jute      Urea
…---- - (US$/m.t)
FOB Chittagong                          291.72   250.28
(Tk/m.t)
FOB Chittagong, USSI-Tk.32.30          9422.56  8084.04
Port taxes, handling c/                1120.00  1128.00
Transport, storage, handling d/         319.00   319.00
Value market, store                    7983.56  6645.04
Transport, handling e/                   96.00    96.00
Subtotal                               7887.56  6741.04
Processing Ratio                          M.S       1.0
Farigate Price                         6704.42  6741.04
------------------------------------
a/ Source: World Bank Commodity Price June 26, 1989. Averages
of 1995 and 2000 projections in 1989 constant prices.
b/ Between Chittagon and source or destination
c/ Average of Take 1400 converted to border valuea by SCF 0.80
d/ Average 300kr  Tk.1.33/w.t/km converted SCF 0.80
e/ Average of l5Sk Tk.8.00/m.t/kn border value SCF 0.80
August 17, 1989



_130_                          AMNEX 12
Table 2
BAN6LADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices /a
-------------------------------------------------------------------_
Unit       Financial           Economic
Output$
Paddy                Kg              5.60               5.00 /b
Wheat                Kg              5.85               7.14 /b
Jute                 Kg              7.20               6.70 /b
Pulses               Kg              5.38               4.30 /c
Oilseeds             Kg             15.00              12.00 /c
Potatos              Kg              2.75               2.20 /c
Vegetable            Kg              2.40               1.32 /c
Groundnut            kg             15.80              12.00 /c
Tobacco              kg             25.00              20.00 /c
Kaon                 Kg              5.00               4.00 /c
Chillies             kg             10.88               8.70 /c
Inputs
Labor                Day            37.33              28.00 Id
Bullock              Pair Day       62.58              50.00 /c
Irrigation           Ha/Yr       4,150.00           3,528.00 /e
Urea                 kg              7.35               6.74 /b
TSP                  kg              8.91               9.90 /b
MP                   kg              6.56               6.90 /b
Pesticidea           kg            487.00             390.00 /c
Aus B.L. Seed        kg              8.13               6.50 /c
Aus HYV              kg             10.00               8.00 /c
Aman L.T. Seed       kg              8.13               6.50 /c
Aman LIV.T Seed      kg              8.50               6.80 /c
Aman HYV Seed        kg              8.75               7.00 /c
Aman HYV Boro Seed   kg              9.38               7.50 /c
Wheat Seed           kg              8.13               6.58 Ic
Jute Saed            kg             16.25              13.00 /c
Pulses Seed          kg             11.00               8.80 /c
Oilseeds Seed        kg             11.00               8.80 /c
Spices Sead          kg              7.50               6.00 /c
Potatos Seed         kg             11.00               8.80 /c
Vegetables Seed      kg            188.88              80.00 /c
Tobacco Seed         kg             11.00               8.80 /c
--------------------------------------------------------------------
/a In conatant 1989 prices. Currency Unit - Tk.
/b Derivation of Economic Prices. Annex 12, Table 1
/c Adjusted by the SCF of 8.8.
/d Market wage adjusted by CF for labor of 0.75.
/e Adjusted by CF 8.85
Source: MOA
August 17, 1989



ANNEX 12
-131-                           Table  3
BAN6LADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Economic Rate of Return and Net Present Value
(TAKA 000)
Year ---------------------Incremental Net Benefit…----------------------
Buri    Pagner Haor  Polder     Polder     Polder       Total
Teesta      Boro       55/1       64/1A      64/1B    Project
Irrigation Protection
1      (1,253)    (1,921)    (5,978)    (3,970)   (10,009)   (23,131)
2        (246)   (11,545)    (9,142)    (6,729)    (9,416)   (37,078)
3      (8,284)   (13,162)         10      1,102      6,059    (14,275)
4      (8,898)     5,970      7,906       1,425      8,584     14,987
s         525     15,299      3,186      3,293      10,346     32,649
6      13,034     21,349      4,482      3,518      10,346     52,729
7      17,743     21.349      5,792      3,5!8      10,346     58,748
8      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10.346     58,748
9      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
10      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
11      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
12      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
13      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
14      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
15      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
16      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
17      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
18      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
19      17,743     21,349      S,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
20      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
21      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
22      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
23      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
24      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
25      17,743     21,349      5,792      3,518      10,346     58,748
/a       45.06Z     4S.00X     26.51X     23.13Z      37.94X     37.41X
/b      60,247     82,673     18,099      9,560      43,046    213,625
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--
/a Economic Rate of Return
/b Net Present Value
August 18, 1989



-132-
ANNEX 13
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Related Documents in Proiect File
1.       BWDB System Rehabilitation Project (UNDP Project BGD/82/023),
Prefeasibility Study, Master Plan Organization/HARZA Engineering and Planning
Consultants Ltd., October 1984.
2.       Rehabilitation of Water Development Project (TCD Con 9/88 and UNDP TA
No. BGD/841010), BWDB/Engineering and Planning Consultants Ltd., in
association with HARZA Engineering Company International and Sir M. MacDonald
and Partners:
(a) Feasibility Report Rehabilitation (21 volumes), 1987-88
(b) Operation and Maintenance Manual (21 volumes), 1987-88
tc) Supplement to Feasibility Report (6 volumes), 1988-89
(d) Special Report on Organization, Training and Management, May 1989
(e) Final Report Rehabilitation of BWDB Projects, January 1989
3.       Bangladesh Water Development Board System Rehabilitation Project,
Operation and Maintenance Component, World Bank/Euroconsult, September 1988:
(a) Volume I : Improved Operation and Maintenance Program
(b) Volume II : Experimental Activities on Beneficiary Participation
in Operation and Maintenance.
4.       Draft Irrigation Water Rate Collection Ordinance, 1989, MOI, April
1989.



BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization Structure
C  BOI
I    I    D            I Ib                                        OW                            I     -
ATAF:A Os) IP9                T
(c.  slgnhr                    &A*=UarUWM  :'          E C;i~z-                               n ;       cmam*r
p_ Ifni                                      T Wr                             _ ,                             ¶
ft=aNW:rO " l lrDnT b Coton                                                                .OM I"_1 
1rkin                                        .k. T=.i       I 
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Om
Takbe                          |        4 PSd UX ~~~~~~~~~~~~emftw  CeZ  *1 60_0
T==                            Umft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.
SW ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     r TM*"                           E         .  
4 ~~~ FaM vkf        or       Cd                 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
A'bWd     AssWtA
Nm DWCE
TcSuW~~~~~~~~~~~~M~DrU Agmi



MAP SECTION



+;    1at X   ,                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~B A N  G  L A D E S H
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
,14 t<<>u  '<s N D I A                                N  App               pra S
B /     '.        <          \                                                             *    Nwi
-26/                                                                                                  A                       SAPcu  t26d
L %                                              Primary Roads
A  _          t  ;    ) \v  y1l$)                                          -^-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ift ..Nnntl Bondorim
2C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 
,  ,  c ( 'D\, ,R  )8\ ,<]r~~~~~~~~~~~~rarc .i
swh"i~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
I5  ;J D    yBIA                              [e                                              oki _ .* !_ 
.\ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      rie £bg\l $\<.s,f                                                   \      &
K'   \  / ½.>>E                                                                             r
BAGADS                                                      Baye        ofi         Bega                                                     A   n '       f4 t
DMa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
INDIA ¶    S. o    a    2IA
MF  Sadn   ~ \ ~          t      - PS,¢       ) ;e~:~  =a OT n              --
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s  -00                                                                                                          I    
Vt  .                                                                                                   ''S       'N        . 
MYA, INDiAR                              '.Bay                 of         B   ngal
'    BANGLIADESH                                                                                                              iodr6 5 
'.DHF HA                                                                                                                     .    MYANMAR
INDIA                                                                 0 '-;9e   .......  ti 20   30   4,    o X%,
| . ' . ~MYANMAR ....     



