Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17906
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2099-BD)
May 20, 1998
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
At appraisal (1989) US$1          Tk. 32.3
ICR 1997 US$1      =      Tk. 43.6
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
1 July to 30 June
ABBREVIATIONS, ACRONYMS AND GLOSSARY
beel     Low-lying area subject to flooding by rain or river water
3oro     Rice planted in December to January and harvested during the period April to June
BWDB   Bangladesh Water Development Board
CEC      Commission of European Communities
CIP      Chandpur Irrigation Project
CMG      Canal Maintenance Group
DCA      Development Credit Agredment
EMG      Embankment Maintenance Group
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
-FAo     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FCD      Flood Control and Drainage
FCDI    Flood Control, Drainage and Irrigation
FES      Final Evaluation Study
FY       Financial Year - FY94 = financial year ending 30 June 1994
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOB      Government of Bangladesh
GON      Government of the Netherlands
GPP      Guidelines for People's Participation
ha       Hectare
haor     Low-lying river backswamp subject to flooding
HQ       Headquarters
HYV      High Yielding Varieties
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IO&M    Improved Operation and Maintenance
khal     Natural channel
KIP      Karnafuli Irrigation Project
LLP      Low-Lift Pumps
LV       Local Varieties
MEF      Maintenance, Electricity and Fuel
MIP      Muhuri Irrigation Project
MOP      Murate of Potash
MOWR,  Ministry of Water Resources
MUV      Manufacturers Unit Value
O&M      Operation and Maintenance
WFP      World Food Program
WUG      Water Users Group
Vice President: Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director: Pierre Landell-Mills
Technical Manager; Michael Baxter/Ridwan Ali
Staff Member: S. A. M. Rafiquzzaman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE ..................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................  .                                             ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................1
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .................................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .................................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT .................................................5
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ..................................................6
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ..................................................7
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .................................................8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ..................................................8
H. FUTURE OPERATION .................................................9
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ..........................                                                   .........................9
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ................................................. 11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................ 11
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ................................................                            13
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................. 14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................       ................................ 14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ................................................. 15
Table 6: Key lndicators for Project Operation ................................................                  16
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ................................................                           16
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................. 17
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................................. 17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................ 17
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .........................                                              ;  18
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements.              .......................... .............. .  20
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                              20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................. ....... .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT (Credit No. 2099-BD)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Bangladesh Water
Development Board (BWDB) Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP) in Bangladesh, for which a
credit in the amount of SDR 40.8 million equivalent was approved on 6 March 1990 and made
effective on 20 June 1990.
The credit was closed on 31 December 1997 as planned. When final disbursement is
completed, based on applications received prior to 30 April 1998, SDR 18.2 million is expected to
have been disbursed. SDR 9.9 million was cancelled on 31 December 1994, SDR 4.82 million on 11
March 1996 and SDR 7.88 on 22 December 1992. Financing for the project was also provided by the
Government of the Netherlands (equivalent US$ 11.9 million), the Commission of the European
Communities (equivalent US$ 16.0 million), the World Food Programme (equivalent US$ 22.5
million) and the Government of Bangladesh (equivalent US$ 4.6 million).
The ICR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, following a
mission1 to Bangladesh from 20 October to 10 November 1997 and revised by staff of the Rural
Development Sector Unit, South Asia Region. The Borrower and other financiers have provided
contributions that have been included as appendices to the ICR (Appendix C). The draft was
reviewed by Messrs B. Ateng, Economist and M. Ahmad, Sr. Irrigation Engineer as peer reviewers.
Particular mention should be made of the Final Evaluation Study by an independent team carried out
in 1997, with separate funding from the Government of Netherlands. The summary of this studies
findings is included in Appendix C.1 as the comments of the Government of Netherlands.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission. It is
based on material in the project file in Bangladesh. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire (Appendix A) and by
preparing its evaluation report (Appendix B).
Mr. R.G. Paterson (Irrigation and Drainage Engineer, Mission Leader); Mr. T. Lohavisavapanich (Economist); and Mr. M.R. Islam (World
Bank Consultant Agriculturalist).
i



APPENDICES
A.        Mission's Aide-Memoire
B.1      Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
B.2      BWDB's Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plan
C.       Co-financiers' Contribution to the ICR
C. I Government of Netherland's contribution
C.2 European Commission's contribution
C.3 World Food Program's Contribution
D.        Financial and Economic Re-Evaluations



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 2099-BD)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        During the decade before the project, IDA had worked closely with the Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) to devise a comprehensive strategy for developing the country's water resources
and had financed a number of BWDB's flood control, drainage and irrigation projects. IDA lending
to Bangladesh had emphasised the agriculture sector, in recognition of the country's needs and
priorities. Within the sector, particular emphasis was placed on developing water resources,
strengthening agricultural services and developing complementary infrastructure in other sectors
such as transport and power. Consistent with GOB's priorities, increased production of food grains
had been the main target of IDA's lending in agriculture. The Bank was the executing agency for the
UNDP-financed National Water Plan Project and was leading an international effort aimed at
designing an action plan to control annual flooding in Bangladesh.
Project Objectives
2.        At appraisal, the main objectives of the project were to protect and increase agricultural
production and incomes and to raise standards of living, particularly of landless people and women,
through rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance (IO&M) of BWDB's existing flood
control, irrigation and drainage projects. Subsidiary objectives were to (a) increase financing and
encourage more efficient use of funds for operation and maintenance (O&M); (b) improve skills and
motivation of BWDB staff for O&M tasks; and (c) increase involvement of the farmers in planning,
construction and O&M, particularly of on-farm works. These objectives were to be achieved through
(a) rehabilitation and improvement (R&I) of about 80 subprojects covering a net area of about
400,000 ha; (b) introduction of IO&M in BWDB's projects, starting in four schemes where
infrastructure was still in reasonably good condition; (c) on-farm development works and IO&M in
two subprojects with farmers' participation; (d) training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries,
particularly for O&M; and (e) provision of technical assistance to assist BWDB in planning, design
and execution of rehabilitation, improvement and O&M works and to help strengthen its organisation
for O&M and staff development. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) required that
allocations for O&M works, electricity and fuel be increased by 10% per year in real terms until such
time as all financing requirements for O&M are covered.
3.        The main objectives were clear, realistic and important for the population affected by
the water control infrastructure that was to be rehabilitated and improved by the project (Part I, para
4). However, the project was complex, involving several components, the need for cooperation
between many institutions and four external financiers, and with a large number of subprojects
scattered around the country. It was too complicated for the capabilities and management capacity
of BWDB. Moreover, in the early years of implementation, BWDB gave major emphasis to the
ii



constructions elements with little progress being made on the O&M components.Consequently the
objectives were twice revised in order to have a better chance of achieving sustainability. In 1994, the
main objective became the development of the capability within BWDB to introduce sustainable
IO&M to its schemes with a strong element of beneficiary participation. In 1996, the development
objectives were again revised by limiting them to ensuring that schemes completed would be
sustainable (Part I, para 5).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.        Agricultural production and farm  incomes. The project protected and increased
agricultural production and incomes and raised standards of living but not to the same extent as
estimated at appraisal. In spite of cancellation of over 50% of the original IDA credit amount,the
cropped area was about 70% of appraisal estimates. Incremental paddy production is estimated to be
about 56% of the appraisal estimate. Annual net farm incomes are estimated to have increased by
between 21% and 80% over the pre-project levels This is more than estimated at appraisal (Part I,
para 7 and Appendix D). There is no evidence that the substantial increase in irrigated area, which it
was hoped on-farm works would achieve through improved distribution of water, has been obtained;
this is mainly due to shortage of water. Financing for O&M has been increased and there has been
some improvement in the efficient use of funds; however, establishment costs still amount to more
than 50% (and sometimes more than 100%) of the expenditure on maintenance works, electricity and
fuel (Part I, para 8). There have been some improvements in the skills and motivation of BWDB staff
for O&M. There has been some involvement of farmers in the operation of sluices but little
involvement in planning and construction and almost no involvement in maintenance of the works
for which BWDB is responsible. The SAR envisaged Cost Recovery only in irrigation projects but
this failed, largely due to the lack of any effective sanction for non payment or adequate safeguards
to make those who collected water charges from farmers pay the money collected to BWDB (para
14). The overall quality of construction of R&I works is reported to be good and the maintenance of
embankments is now entrusted to maintenance groups of landless laborers (mostly women), which
work conscientiously and effectively. However the inability of the BWDB to transfer any
maintenance responsibility to the beneficiaries and recent breaking of a covenant concerning
allocation of funds for O&M (para 19) give cause for concern. The sustainability of SRP works, as
well as other BWDB schemes, must therefore be considered to be uncertain.
5.        Impacts on the environment. At appraisal it was agreed that all potential adverse
effects of the rehabilitation and improvement works would be assessed during the feasibility studies
to be carried out for all subprojects and provisions would be made to remedy these effects, where
necessary. The Final Evaluation Study for this project (Draft Report, November 1997) suggests that
"there are issues of concern in the fields of wetlands and aquatic ecosystems in particular and it is
clear that these have not been taken into account in the planning of either the specific interventions
made or the consequences on local land-use patterns, hydrology and ecosystems of these
interventions. It is essential that such factors are taken into consideration in the future, for in many
cases the negative impacts found could have been mitigated by either minor adjustments to the
design of the interventions or other measures. An overall assessment of the environmental impact of
SRP would be that it has been important, but that there have been both positive and negative effects
and that there is no over-riding environmental impact which has affected the integrity of investments
at either the sub-project level or for the project as a whole." During supervision, this was often
discussed by Bank missions with BWDB and Implementing Consultants. However, in cases of
iii



simple repairs of the infra-structure (restoring the original situation) not much attention was being
given to mitigation against harmful effects of past investments. Nevertheless, in particular during the
last few years of the projects, and as a result of demands by the affected community and Bank staff
insistence, major structures are now routinely equipped with fish or boat passes to restore fish
migrating routes and navigation.
6.        Participation. One of the areas in which the objectives of SRP have changed most over
time has been in the field of participation. These activities were marginal at first, but in the project's
later stages have become one of its central objectives. The formulation of participation process was
inadequate in the SAR, with some reference to the need for beneficiary involvement. It is widely
acknowledged that the formation of Water Users Groups/Organisations (WUOs) in most areas was
largely a paper exercise, with consultation of a few locally influential people only. There are no
examples within SRP of fully functioning, effective WUOs which have taken over responsibility for
the operation of the systems. The problems in large measure stem from the Guidelines for Peoples
Participation (GPP), which have now been recognised as fundamentally flawed. New guidelines are
being developed to replace them. The problem with GPP were discussed in detail in the September
1996 Aide Memoire and the approach which will be adopted in the future should recognise that the
development of effective participation involves far more than the simple attachment of top-down
organised groups to an agency with the characteristics of the BWDB. Fundamental to these process
is the need to integrate participatory development into the wider framework of local government
agencies and civil society. What is clear at this stage is that the development of the participatory
component of SRP has failed to its objectives. The project is far from unique in this. It is a
characteristic of similar attempts in other water sector projects.  The issue is how to make
participation happen.
7.        The estimated total project cost is US$78.2 million (Tk 3193 million), 70% of appraisal
estimates (85% in Taka terms). This has been financed by an IDA credit of US$25.5 million (SDR
18.2 million), a grant from the Commission of European Communities (CEC) equivalent to US$13.8
million and a grant from the Government of the Netherlands equivalent to US$12.1 million. The
domestic contribution, equivalent to US$26.8 million, includes the equivalent of US$15.9 million
allocated by the World Food Programme (WFP). The cancellation of IDA Credit by an amount of
US$ 28.40 m (55.39%) was mainly due to: (a) decisions to reduce the number of subprojects to be
financed, in view of slow implementation and capacity constraints, and (b) exchange rate changes
substantially increasing the taka equivalent of SDR. The project has been completed in the time
allocated but targets and achievements have been reduced. The economic rate of return (ERR) has
been re-estimated to be about 30% (SAR 37%) (see Appendix D). The reasons for the lower ERR
include higher unit costs, delayed accrual of benefits and lower incremental cropping intensity and
paddy yields. Calculations of the likely effect of reduced production due to inadequate maintenance,
would reduce the ERR to about 20%. Data to measure the loss of capture fisheries or navigation is
not available, but deductions for these losses would not be expected to decrease the ERR below
acceptable levels. The benefits of protection from floods and the positive impacts on road
transportation and potential for culture fisheries were also not quantified.
8.        Key factors affecting the project include invalid assumptions made at appraisal: that
the subprojects selected for IO&M would not need rehabilitation; that the implementation schedule
was practicable; that BWDB was institutionally capable of successfully implementing the project;
and that BWDB was committed to improving O&M and beneficiary participation. The emphasis on
iv



the various objectives of the project has changed during implementation, with emphasis moving
progressively from construction towards O&M and reorganisation of BWDB. Rehabilitation and
improvement of subprojects were much slower than anticipated at appraisal, due not only to the late
appointment of CEC-financed consultants for feasibility studies and design, but also to delays in
acquiring land for construction, protracted procurement procedures of BWDB and unfamiliarity of
BWDB staff with required project procedures due to rapid turnover of staff (paras 15 to 17). Since
technical assistance requirements exceeded the capacity of a single source of grant finance, it was
decided late in the preparation of the project to split the TA among two donors and two consulting
firms, which complicated procedures and coordination. Budget allocation for design work was
inadequate, leading to limited field work. In some cases, designs contain flaws. The project was an
enclave, with limited coordination or exchange of views with similar activities under parallel
projects. This reduced its potential influence for institutional reform.
9.        The Bank's performance (paras 20 & 21) was inadequate in appraisal but generally
satisfactory in implementation. The targets set at appraisal were not wholly realistic and the
implementation arrangements were very complicated. It was well known that land acquisition and
procurement frequently delayed project implementation but the commitment of BWDB to overcome
these risks was overestimated. The SAR did not adequately define how to increase farmer
participation and did not foresee that rehabilitation would be needed for the proposed pilot IO&M
subprojects. Supervision missions generally performed satisfactorily but gave too little emphasis to
providing a meaningful role to justify the formation of water users' organisations. Supervision
missions were instrumental in having the project restructured to put more emphasis on O&M and
twice to redefine the project's objectives. The Borrower's performance was affected by the
institutional weaknesses and lack of commitment in BWDB to the O&M and participatory objectives,
which seriously weakend implementation progress. The initiative of the Ministry of Water Resources
(MOWR) to reorganise BWDB to emphasise O&M, although not specifically a requirement of the
appraised project, demonstrates a commitment to the concepts of the project. MOWR appreciates that
BWDB in its present form is unsustainable and already there have been substantial reductions in
staff. However, there is no evidence of commitment, particularly political commitment, to recover
the costs of O&M of irrigation systems. Budget for O&M works, fuel and electricity was increased
by more than 300% during the project period, but continued increase in accord with the covenant did
not take place in FY97 and 98.
10.      . Outcome: The project achieved the objective of increasing agricultural production (Part
I, para 7). Even though sustainability is uncertain (para 19), deductions for likely losses of production
due to poor maintenance and for damages to fisheries or navigation would still be expected to leave
on ERR at an acceptable level. In addition there are unquantified benefits from protection from
floods and improved land transportation. The institutional objectives included in the SAR were not
reached. However, through dialogue during project supervision significant progress has been made to
reduce institutional weaknesses and to increase commitment to O&M and beneficiary participation.
Recent GOB actions to reduce staff levels, to prepare a plan for further reductions, to adopt a new
statement on BWDB's role, to produce participation guidelines and to contract with NGOs to help
increase beneficiary participation are some of the indications of progress and commitment to further
change. More difficult to document, but nevertheless real and important, has been the gradual
movement in BWDB attitudes and perceptions of its role. While progress on these issues has been
slow and frustrating, what has been achieved would have been unlikely without the continued
v



dialogue fostered by this project. On balance this project should be considered marginally
satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
11.       Findings. There was a need for this project and there is still a need for further
rehabilitation and improvement of existing systems and for improved O&M. However, ensuring that
rehabilitated and improved systems are sustainable in the long term should be the first priority in
design of any such project. No new project should be started until the long-term sustainability can be
assured. BWDB needs considerable encouragement to continue its reorganisation, reintroduce
irrigation service fees and develop people's participation. The processing of the proposed Water
Sector Improvement Project has been made conditional on achieving adequate progress in each of
these fields. This conditionality should be maintained. Maintenance groups have been successful and
should be replicated wherever practicable. One of the project objectives was to increase incomes and
to raise standards of living, particularly for landless people and women. The preventive maintenance
work for the embankments were taken up through maintenance groups, which consist of women
labourers generally from landless or female headed households. This approach has ensured better
embankment maintenance as well as provided a scope for a better life in terms of empowerment, food
security, and health to the group members themselves and to their children (SRP Technical Report
No. 43, April 1994). It is important to ensure that the maintenance groups that exist do not wither
for lack of resources to pay them under the Recurrent Budget. The field research by the FES Team
demonstrated both the desire of local people to be involved and their capacities to organise
themselves and mobilise resources around water management issues. It also showed the need to
integrate participation into the process from the beginning, and that any project needs to have an
organisational structure and relate to institutions which are compatible with such participatory goals.
12.       Future Operation. BWDB is relying on WFP to finance most O&M earthworks. An
operational plan for the future O&M of project works has been prepared by Chief Engineer SRP,
BWDB. Careful review will be needed to ensure that adequate allowance is made for O&M of
structures and works not covered by WFP's contribution.
13.       Key Lessons: (i) Institutional change requires finding the real cause of problems. In
this case increasing budgetary funds for O&M removed excuses and revealed more basic problems of
incentives, attitudes and institutional structure;
(ii) Reform of BWDB requires a new mandate, emphasizing tasks of national interest and
technical complexity, and provision of technical services to other agencies, at local or regional levels,
more suitable to beneficiary participation and service;
(iii) Establishing a project as an enclave reduces its potential influence for policy reform;
(iv) Increasing involvement of beneficiaries requires more time and careful planning of
the roles, responsibilities, and interactions of various stakeholders within proposed beneficiary
organizations;
vi



(v) Realistic project planning is essential, recognizing institutional constraints, proposing
solutions where possible, and allowing adequate time for procedures that can not quickly be
reformed;
(vi) Government insistence on grant financing of technical assistance, when it leads to
complex multi-donor and multi-consultant structures, can be very costly. Joint-financing should be
preferred over parallel financing;
(vii) Routine maintenance by groups of the landless poor can be very successful, and the
experience should be replicated;
(viii) Successful irrigation cost recovery requires adequate rule of law to ensure funds
collected from farmers are received and that sanctions are enforced on those who do not pay.
Alternatively a more incentive based approach of transferring greater responsibility for O&M to the
beneficiaries may be more likely to succeed;
(ix) Future water sector rehabilitation projects should be made conditional on adequate
reforms to ensure sustainability; and
(x) The success of a project in fostering dialogue on issues and a recognition within
government and the implementing agency of the need for reform may be its most important long-
term contributions.
(xi) Future rehabilitation projects should routinely address environmental damages that
may have occurred as a result of the original design and provide for mitigation measures, rather than
simply rehabilitating according to the original design criteria; and
(xii) Future rehabilitation project should ensure stakeholders participation in all stages of
the project cycle, starting from identification through operation and maintenance.
vii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2099-BD)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.        The concept of the project was to support a series of interrelated actions designed to
upgrade the level of services provided by irrigation, flood control and drainage projects. First, water
control infrastructure, which had deteriorated due to lack of regular maintenance, would be
rehabilitated and improved. Second, improved O&M would be introduced gradually in all projects.
Third, on-farm development would be carried out in selected schemes to encourage farmers to make
better use of the infrastructure, particularly for irrigation. Fourth, BWDB's organization for O&M
and for staff development would be strengthened; staff and beneficiaries would be trained,
particularly for O&M. Fifth, measures would be taken to transfer part of the financial burden for
O&M of irrigation infrastructure from the public sector to the beneficiaries. Sixth, arrangements
would be made to involve disadvantaged groups such as landless persons and women in the
maintenance works of the projects.
2.        At appraisal, the main objectives of the project were to protect and increase agricultural
production and incomes and to raise standards of living, particularly of landless people and women,
through rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance (IO&M) of BWDB's existing flood
control, irrigation and drainage projects. Subsidiary objectives were to (a) increase financing and
encourage more efficient use of funds for O&M; (b) improve skills and motivation of BWDB staff
for O&M tasks; and (c) increase involvement of the farmers in planning, construction and O&M,
particularly of on-farm works. The project was also to help determine BWDB's staff requirements
and training needs and establish a technical unit at BWDB's headquarters to improve planning,
budgeting and implementation of O&M.
3.        These objectives were to be achieved through (a) rehabilitation and improvement (R&I)
of about 80 subprojects covering a gross area of about 600,000 ha (net about 400,000 ha); (b)
introduction of IO&M in BWDB's projects, starting in four schemes where infrastructure was still in
reasonably good condition; (c) on-farm development works and IO&M in two subprojects with
farmers' participation; (d) training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries, particularly for O&M; and (e)
provision of technical assistance to assist BWDB in planning, design and execution of rehabilitation,
I



improvement and O&M works and to help strengthen its organisation for O&M and staff
development; and (e) increased Government budget allocations for O&M
4.        The main objectives were clear, realistic and important for the population affected by
the water control infrastructure that was to be rehabilitated and improved by the project. A final
evaluation study (FES)l has shown that the hydraulic structures rehabilitated and improved by the
project have been important in the development of the different areas and are valued by all: over 80%
of those surveyed, which included all sections of the population, rated the infrastructure in their area
as having positive benefits to them. The coastal polders had particularly high ratings with over 90%
rating their benefits as positive. Protection from floods, storms and saline intrusion and access to
irrigation have transformed the lives of coastal areas. The ratings in beels, haors and khals, where the
hazards and benefits are not so obvious, are lower but generally positive.
5.       In general, the concept, objectives and components were reasonably well linked.
However, the project was complex, involving several components, the need for cooperation among
many institutions and four external financiers and with a large number of subprojects scattered
around the country. It was too complicated for the capabilities and management capacity of BWDB.
Moreover, in the initial years of implementation, management and staff attention appeares to have
been too heavily weighted on construction with inadequate emphasis given to the O&M components.
Consequently the objectives were twice revised in order to have a better chance of achieving
sustainability . In 1994, the main objective became the development of the capability within BWDB
to introduce sustainable IO&M to its schemes, with a strong element of beneficiary participation; the
number of subprojects was reduced to 35 with a net area of about 310,000 ha. Phased implementation
of subprojects was introduced for ten specified subprojects; this required a sequenced mode of
rehabilitation to ensure that, before investing in the rehabilitation of a subproject, institutional
arrangements for improved O&M of the subproject would be put in place in a timely manner and all
necessary actions for implementation of the subproject would be completed on schedule. In 1996,
the development objectives were again revised by limiting them to ensuring that schemes completed
would be sustainable.
6.        The estimated total project cost is US$78.2 million (Tk 3193 million), 70% of appraisal
estimates (85% in Taka terms). This has been financed by an IDA credit of US$25.5 million (SDR
18.2 -million), a grant from the Commission of European Communities (CEC) equivalent to US$13.8
million and a grant from the Government of the Netherlands equivalent to US$12.1 million. The
domestic contribution, equivalent to US$26.8 million, includes the equivalent of US$15.9 million
allocated by the World Food Programme (WFP). The cancellation of IDA Credit by an amount of
US$ 28.40 m (55.39%) was mainly due to: (a) decisions to reduce the number of subprojects to be
financed, in view of slow implementation and capacity constraints, and (b) exchange rate changes
substantially increasing the taka equivalent of SDR.
A study in 1997 by an independent consulting team under separate funding from the Govemment of the Netherlands to evaluate a wide range
of SRP activities.
2



B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
7.         Agricultural production and farm  incomes. The project protected and increased
agricultural production and incomes and raised standards of living but not all to the same extent as
estimated at appraisal. The number of subprojects was only 44% and the net cropped area only about
70% of appraisal estimates. Incremental paddy production is estimated to be about 222,000 t/year,
56% of the appraisal estimate and 88% of the revised estimate. The incremental farm labour demand
is estimated to be about 32,000 man-years/year, 28% more than the appraisal estimate. The increase
in farm labourer demand is due to introduction of labour intensive HYV T Aman, Boro and high
value cash crops (potato, groundnut, spices and vegetables) (Appendix D, paras 6, 7 and I1). Annual
net farm incomes for one hectare farms are estimated to have increased by between 21% and 80%
over the pre-project income levels for the five subprojects which were analysed in detail. This is
appreciably greater than the 11% to 48% estimated at appraisal. However, taking account of changes
that would have occurred without the project, incremental net farm incomes are estimated to have
increased by between 11% and 32% due to the project. Comparable figures were not shown in the
SAR.
8.         Financing for O&M has been increased and there has been some improvement in the
efficient use of funds. However establishment costs still amount to more than 50% (and sometimes
more than 100%) of the expenditure on maintenance works, electricity and fuel1. The progress in
increasing the budget for maintenance works, electricity and fuel met the covented targets through
FY96, but budgetary allocations decreased thereafter. There have been some improvements in the
skills and motivation of BWDB staff for O&M. The project helped to define improved O&M
procedures and developed a framework to incorporate it. However these improved procedures have
not yet been fully institutionalized for introduction beyond SRP subprojects. The initiation under the
project of maintenance by landless groups, mostly female, (see para 18) has been shown to be
valuable for efficiently maintaining embankments and canals while providing poverty and gender
benefits.
9.         There has been some involvement of farmers in the operation of sluices but little
involvement in planning and construction and almost no involvement in maintenance of the works
for which BWDB is responsible. It was not clear from the SAR how involvement of farmers was to
be achieved. It has been recognized that the approach to participatory development, outlined in the
Guidelines for People's Participation (GPP)2, has failed. The Guidelines are in the process of being
revised, taking account of the need to integrate with local government. It was not a stated objective of
the project to involve people other than farmers, such as fishermen and boatmen. Although the
feasibility studies carried out during the project were meant to take account of their needs, there are
many cases where the requirements for navigation and fisheries have not been adequately taken into
Expenditures in Tk million (Allocation in FY98)
Year             FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98
Maintenance, electricity &fuel(MEF)  211   211  223.7  264.9  335.7  556.0  642.3  748.0  714.7  691.5
Establishment                 260   270   305   330  335.1  306.4  590.8  644.4  746.4  380
Establishment/MEF %           123   128   136   125   100    55   92    86   104    55
2 Guidelines for People's Participation were initiated under the Flood Action Plan and subsequently adapted for use by BWDB at the time of
the first restructuring of the project. They were formally accepted by MOWR in mid-1995.
3



account in the design of improvements to the water control infrastructure. Also, planned excavation
of khals was often left uncompleted due to inability to agree on details of what was to be done.
10.       Impacts on the environment. At appraisal it was agreed that all potential adverse
effects of the rehabilitation and improvement works would be assessed during the feasibility studies
to be carried out for all subprojects and provisions would be made to remedy these effects, where
necessary. The Final Evaluation Study for this project (Draft Report, November 1997) suggests that
"there are issues of concern in the fields of wetlands and aquatic ecosystems in particular and it is
clear that these have not been taken into account in the planning of either the specific interventions
made or the consequences on local land-use patterns, hydrology and ecosystems of these
interventions. It is essential that such factors are taken into consideration in the future, for in many
cases the negative impacts found could have been mitigated by either minor adjustments to the
design of the interventions or other measures. An overall assessment of the environmental impact of
SRP would be that it has been important, but that there have been both positive and negative effects
and that there is no over-riding environmental impact which has affected the integrity of investments
at either the sub-project level or for the project as a whole." During supervision, this was often
discussed by Bank missions with BWDB and Implementing Consultants. However, in cases of
simple repairs of the infra-structure (restoring the original situation) not much attention was being
given to mitigation against harmful effects of past investrnents. Nevertheless, in particular during the
last few years of the projects, and as a result of demands by the affected community and Bank staff
insistence, major structures are now routinely equipped with fish or boat passes to restore fish
migrating routes and navigation.
11.       The economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated in the SAR, based on sample
projects representing 6% of total project cost, to be 37%. The ICR has re-estimated this to be about
29%, based on actual costs and benefited areas for 68% of project costs, and cropping patterns and
yields extrapolated from 5 subprojects out of 35 (see Appendix D, paras 15-18). The reasons for the
decrease in ERR include higher unit costs, delayed accrual of benefits and lower incremental
cropping intensity and paddy yields. The ICR has made the same assumptions as were made at
appraisal when the economic evaluation was based entirely on agricultural benefits: the added
security against flood damage and better access to properties as well as public health benefits due to
improved drainage were recognized but not quantified. The benefits provided by flood protection
works are now relied on much more than was previously the case; consequently, the removal of these
benefits would cause greater loss than previously. The generally negative impacts on capture
fisheries and water transport and positive impacts on road transport and potential for culture fisheries
were not quantified. Calculations of the likely effect of reduced production due to inadequate
maintenance would reduce the ERR to about 20%.
12.       On-farm works were developed in Polder 55/1 and less intensively in Buri Teesta
Irrigation subprojects but there is no evidence that the substantial increase in irrigated area, which it
was hoped this would achieve through improved distribution of water, has been obtained. This is
mainly due to shortage of water.
13.       Training and Staff Development. Over 565 man-months of consultancy were used for
training and staff development. This included training of trainers, designing and implementing
courses for BWDB staff and beneficiaries/maintenance groups, planning and supervising the
4



improvement of a training facility (now being built with funding from CEC) and study tours.
However, the numbers of people trained have generally fallen short of the targets set in the SAR,
particularly for the O&M course for beneficiaries, which was, in fact, used for water users' groups. It
is reported that the training programmes were appreciated and increased participants' understanding
of IO&M and people's participation. However, the FES reported that while training gave BWDB's
staff many insights into better ways to perform, the scope for doing so once they returned to their
tasks was often limited by the failure of BWDB to change the structure and responsibilities to
conform to what had been taught. The institutionalisation of a training capacity is effective with a
well-established training section. A staff inventory and job descriptions were prepared and staffing
plans developed for all field units and BWDB headquarters. Staff redeployment was designed and
training responsibilities reorganized. A personnel management information system has been
implemented. The proposed reorganization of BWDB has not used this information system putting
into doubt the usefulness of the exercise.
14.       Cost Recovery. The Bank accepted GOB's view that it was not feasible to recover costs
for flood control and drainage works and the SAR envisaged recovery only in irrigation projects. The
only targets related to cost recovery in the SAR were the promulgation of revised Water Rate Rules
and their implementation under three irrigation projects. The revised Rules were issued about 18
months later than planned but attempts to implement them failed, largely due to the inability to make
those who collected water charges from farmers pay the money collected to BWDB; after a slow start
in FY94 when 15% of the amount assessed was recovered, recovery reached 37% in FY95: however,
recovery then declined to less than 1% in FY97 after it became obvious that there was no effective
sanction for non-payment.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.       Factors not generally subject to government control. The project was seriously
affected by invalid assumptions made at appraisal: that the subprojects selected for IO&M, which had
been completed for only a few years, were in good physical condition and would not need
rehabilitation; that the implementation schedule was practicable; that BWDB was institutionally
capable of successfully implementing the project; and that beneficiaries' participation would happen
easily. The delayed arrival of the CEC-financed consultants seriously affected progress in the early
stages of the project. The emphasis on the various objectives of the project were changed during
implementation, with emphasis moving  progressively from  construction towards O&M  and
reorganisation of BWDB. The introduction by the donors of phased implementation of selected
subprojects in an attempt to achieve institutional development activities before construction was
authorised was only reluctantly agreed to by BWDB. The added complications caused more delays
without achieving the intended increased attentions to O&M. Multiplicity of donors with different
requirements and procedures, requires close co-ordination, which could not be achieved in some
cases delaying the implementation program. It also caused confusions to Govt. staff and delays in
effective implementation and timely reimbursement.
16.       Factors generally subject to government control. Guidelines for People's Participation
(GPP), which were initiated under the Flood Action Plan and subsequently adapted and forrmally
accepted in mid-1995 by the MOWR, were found to be impracticable, thus contributing to the lack of
participation by farmers.  Increased budgetary allocations to O&M  achieved through FY96,
decreased thereafter. Civil service rules, with over-emphasis on seniority, provide inadequate
5



incentive for performance and inadequate management continuity. At one stage, delay in appointing
BWDB Board members was a serious issue. GOB systems for tendering and contracting make it
difficult to award contracts early in the financial year and often cause the start of construction to be
delayed until near the end of the construction season. In general, BWDB's resistance to the new
procedures for improved water management caused more delays without achieving the intended
increased attention to O&M.
17.       Factors generally subject to BWDB's control. Rehabilitation and improvement of
subprojects were much slower than anticipated at appraisal, due not only to the late appointment of
CEC-financed consultants for feasibility studies and design, but also to delays in acquiring land for
construction, protracted procurement procedures of BWDB and unfamiliarity of BWDB staff with
required project procedures due to rapid turnover of staff. The R&I works were often broken down
into a very large number of small contracts, thereby increasing the work load for BWDB; this also
resulted in the employment of weak construction firms with ineffective contract management; many
responsibilities of the contractors, such as setting out the works, were undertaken by BWDB staff.
Many incapable contractors were employed partly because the system of blacklisting such
contractors is rarely enforced and the Bank was unable to help. Until the Bank's Standard Bidding
Document was accepted by BWDB in 1995, procurement was often further protracted by discussions
over conditions of contract. Most importantly, while BWDB management and staff understanding
and commitment to the projects O&M and participation objectives has increased over time, these
objectives required significant changes in BWDB's initial prevailing culture and priorities.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
18.       The overall quality of construction of R&I works is reported to be good and generally of
a better quality than found in other projects and non-project BWDB construction. This is attributed to
the SRP monitoring system and indicates that major maintenance is less likely to be needed in the
short term. A recent survey carried out by an independent evaluation team has shown that the water
control structures are highly valued by the communities they serve, which have strong incentives to
keep them in good working order. Some flood control and drainage sluices are now operated or
controlled by committees of beneficiaries. The maintenance of embankments is now often entrusted
to maintenance groups consisting of the landless (mostly women), which work conscientiously and
effectively. However, the inability of the BWDB, even with the assistance it had from the project, to
transfer maintenance responsibilities to the beneficiaries indicates the difficulties in achieving
sustainability of the subprojects, which will not be easy and is likely to take time. Revision of the
GPP alone is unlikely to ensure their short term sustainability but will hopefully be effective in the
long term if sufficient funds for O&M are made available and continued efforts are made within
BWDB to build staff awareness of the importance of O&M for BWDB's objectives
19.       The DCA requires that allocations for O&M works and energy be increased by 10% per
year in real terms until such time as all financing requirements for O&M are covered. From FY94 to
FY96 this was achieved, not only in the amount allocated but also in the amount spent. However in
FY97 the amount allocated decreased marginally and the amount spent decreased by over 4% (about
9% in real terms) and only about 70% of O&M needs were funded. This breached the DCA covenant.
The allocation for FY98 is only 82% of the allocation for FY97, or 90% if 10,000 tons of wheat from
WFP (Tk 75 million equivalent) are added to the recurrent budget. This breaches the covenant and is
a sign that GOB lacks the commitment to allocate sufficient funds for O&M. The FY98 allocation
6



for establishment costs is very much less than expected expenditure and it is possible that the
allocation for O&M works will be diverted to meet establishment costs, thus reducing the actual
expenditure on O&M works. The sustainability of SRP works, as well as other BWDB schemes, must
therefore be considered uncertain. However, while still hard to document, there has been noticeable
progress in changing attitudes to recognize the importance of participation and in willingness to
employ NGOs to help achieve participation in both design and O&M.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
20.       When the project was identified in the early 1980s it was consistent with the
Government's development strategy and with the Bank's strategy for developing water resources in
Bangladesh. The Bank satisfactorily helped to organise, with UNDP financing, project preparation
including prefeasibility and feasibility studies, some detailed design and a report on organisation and
training for O&M. However, the Bank's performance at appraisal was deficient. While the concept
and objectives described in the SAR are generally clear, the targets set were not wholly realistic and
the implementation arrangements were very complicated. It was well known and had been identified
as lessons learned in several earlier Project Completion Reports that land acquisition and
procurement frequently delayed project implementation. Although identified as risks in the SAR, the
commitment of BWDB to overcome these risks was overestimated and no specific measures were
included to avoid them. The implementation schedule seems to have been designed to ignore these
risks as if they did not exist. Although a project objective was to improve O&M and train
beneficiaries for O&M, it seems to have been the intention to confine this to training EMGs and
CMGs,I rather than the water users, who could have been given incentives to maintain the systems in
good condition. The SAR refers to increased farmer participation but there is little discussion of how
this would be achieved. The failure to foresee at appraisal that extensive rehabilitation would be
needed for the proposed pilot O&M irrigation subprojects was a serious error.
21.       The Bank and the cofinanciers (GON, EU and WFP) have run 14 well staffed supervision
missions, and mission findings and recommendations have had positive effects on the progress and
direction of the project. The Bank maintained continuity in the staffing of supervision missions.
Composition of the missions in terms of skill mix was also good. The average length of the missions
was three weeks which appears reasonable given the nature of the project. In addition, the resident
mission, which managed the supervision task, maintained close contact with the implementing
agencies between supervision missions. Detailed terms of reference were prepared for each mission.
Performance rating given in Supervision Form 590 are generally consistent with the project's
outcome.The Bank, implementing agency, and confinanciers satisfactorily worked together in
supervising project implementation. Generally, the missions were helpful to project implementation
but often took too optimistic a view of future progress and developments; however, the imposition of
additional constraints introduced by insisting on phased implementation for 10 subprojects when the
project was restructured in 1994 were so general that to some extent they were counterproductive and
thus were mainly ignored by BWDB. A great deal of emphasis was placed on the formation of water
users' organizations (WUOs). However, because of the fundamental flaws in the GPP, the WUOs
were not given any responsibilities. Consequently, although the specified number are claimed to have
been formed, they serve very little useful purpose. Despite the SAR specifying and allocating
Embankment maintenance groups and canal maintenance groups, which may be considered to fall outside the usual definition of
beneficiaries.
7



US$600,000 for a benchmark study and two evaluation studies, the ICR mission had very poor
agricultural data; supervision missions did not ensure that the results of the benchmark study were
clearly presented and allowed the mid-term evaluation study to be dropped. A Final Evaluation Study
(FES) was completed as scheduled by an Independent team of national and international consultants,
funded by GON. Supervision missions were instrumental in having the project restructured to put
more emphasis on O&M and twice to redefine the project's objectives.
22.       The project at preparation was divided into six components, to suit funding arrangements
from four different sources. Due to parallel financing, different management and financial procedures
were used which resulted in delays in mobilizing EU funded consultants. Subsequently, co-
ordination between two groups of consultants were difficult at times (Appendix A, para 28).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
23.       The Borrower employed consultants, financed by UJNDP, to satisfactorily prepare the
main component of the project. During project implementation there was generally no shortage of
funds for project implementation and most covenants of the DCA were eventually complied with,
including those concerning increasing the allocation of budgetary funds for maintenance (which,
however, is now in default) and issuing revised Irrigation Water Rate Rules. However, covenants
concerning procedures for land acquisition and subproject O&M programmes and budgets were
usually in default. At times, delays in appointing BWDB Board members seriously impeded its
functioning. Although audit reports were generally punctual, audit queries were not followed up.
Improvements in quality control were a notable success and the quality of construction was reported
to be generally satisfactory. Although the Borrower showed some commitment to the main objective
of the project, institutional weaknesses and lack of commitment in BWDB, the implementing agency,
seriously affected implementation progress. The inability to adequately plan land acquisition and
procurement, compounded by breaking the works into an excessive number of small contracts,
helped to delay implementation. BWDB often failed to process land acquisition as required by the
DCA, which often caused delay to implementation. Delays in land acquisition and in awarding
contracts often resulted in contracts being awarded in March, just before the end of the construction
season in May. MOWR's initiative to reorganise BWDB to emphasise O&M, although not
specifically a requirement of the appraised project, demonstrates a commitment to the concepts of the
project. However, there is no evidence of commitment, particularly political commitment, to recover
the costs of O&M of irrigation systems. MOWR appreciates that BWDB in its present form is
unsustainable and already there have been substantial reductions in staff. Coordination between
BWDB and other agencies, particularly Department of Agricultural Extension, was often
unsatisfactory.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.       The project achieved the objective of increasing agricultural production (Part I, para 7).
Even though sustainability is uncertain (para 19), deductions for likely losses of production due to
poor maintenance and for damages to fisheries or navigation would still be expected to leave on ERR
at an acceptable level. In addition there are substantial unquantified benefits from protection from
flooding and improved land transportation. The use of landless groups (mostly women) for routine
8



maintenance was successful and also provided poverty and gender benefits. The institutional
objectives included in the SAR were not reached. However, through dialogue during project
supervision significant progress has been made to reduce institutional weaknesses and to increase
commitment to O&M and beneficiary participation. Recent GOB actions to reduce staff leyels, to
prepare a plan for further reductions, to adopt a new statement on BWDB's role, to produce
participation guidelines and to contract with NGOs to help increase beneficiary participation are
some of the indications of progress and commitment to further change. More difficult to document,
but nevertheless real and important, has been the gradual movement in BWDB attitudes and
perceptions of its role. While progress on these issues has been slow and frustrating, what has been
achieved would have been unlikely without the continued dialogue fostered by this project. On
balance this project should be considered marginally satisfactory.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
25.       BWDB is relying on WFP to finance most O&M earthworks. An operational plan to
request a WFP contribution for the future O&M of project works has been prepared by Chief
Engineer SRP, BWDB and sent to WFP for review. This plan excludes O&M of regulators or other
facilities not suitable for maintenance under food for works programs. A full operation plan has been
requested to ensure that adequate arrangements are made for O&M of structures and works not
covered by WFP's contribution. The plan should also show performance indicators which can be
used to monitor operation and development impact.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
26.       Institutional change requires thorough analysis to find the real causes of problems. In this
case it was assumed that O&M could be improved significantly through more adequate budgets and
improved procedures. Increased budget funds removed excuses and revealed deeper problems of
incentives, attitudes and institutional structures.
27.       Changing attitudes in a traditional, top-down, engineering-oriented organisation to
emphasis on beneficiary service and participation is not an easy process. Reform of BWDB should be
based upon a new mandate emphasising tasks of national interest and technical complexity and
provision of technical services to other agencies more suitable for managing and maintaining water
resources and structures at local and/or regional levels. Relatively simple tasks from a technical point
of view should be delegated to the maximum extent possible to decentralised local institutions
answerable to beneficiaries
28.       The enclave nature of the project, with limited co-ordination or exchange of views with
similar activities under parallel projects, reduced its potential influence for institutional reform.
29.       Increasing the involvement of the affected population in planning, design and O&M is
beneficial but requires more time and careful planning. The roles, responsibilities and interactions of
the various stakeholders need to be thought through. The initial peoples participation guidelines
turned out to be unworkable. In the Chorai Shomeshpur subproject, where farmers were involved in
the planning and design process, several improvements were achieved, but it took time. The
formation of water users' organisations is pointless unless they have clear objectives to operate and
9



maintain the works, preferably at least partially at their own expense. Representation of affected
people should include fishermen and boatmen as well as farmers.
30.       The importance of good planning of project implementation cannot be over-stressed. The
time needed for the procedures necessary for acquisition of land and procurement in accordance with
Bank guidelines have been well known for many years, yet still these factors are causes of serious
delay. The fact that rehabilitation projects often only require small areas of land does not detract from
the importance of this. The Bank's new requirements for involuntary resettlement, if followed,
should go some way to avoiding delays due to land acquisition in the future. The use of advance
procurement, larger contracts and employment of design consultants before signing the credit can
help to minimise delays.
31.       The prior policy of the Government of insisting on grant-financing of technical
assistance can be very costly. In this case, since technical assistance requirements exceeded the
capacity of a single source of grant financing, it led to a multiplicity of donors with different
requirements and procedures, causing confusion to government staff and delaying effective
implementation and speedy reimbursement (Appendix A, para 26). Employing consultants for
supervision of construction and separate consultants for feasibility study and design resulted in some
conflict and made it difficult to effect quickly changes to design, the need for which only became
apparent when work was about to start. Also, supervision consultants should take responsibility for
design flaws, if and when identified, and for their subsequent modification.
32.       Maintenance groups (EMG and CMG) have been successful and should be replicated
wherever practicable. It is important to ensure that those that exist do not wither for lack of resources
to pay them under the recurrent budget.
33.       Successful irrigation cost recovery requires adequate rule of law to ensure funds
collected from farmers are received and that sanctions are enforced on those who do not pay.
Alternatively, a more incentive based approach of transferring greater responsibility for O&M to the
beneficiaries may be more likely to lead to improved beneficiary contributions to operating and
maintaining their own works.
34.       There was a need for this project and there is still a need for further rehabilitation and
improvement of existing systems and for improved O&M. However, ensuring that rehabilitated and
improved systems are sustainable in the long term should be the first priority in design of any such
project. The processing of the Water Sector Improvement Project has been made conditional upon
progress on the issues affecting sustainability. This conditionality should be maintained.
35.       Beyond the specific accomplishments of this project, it succeeded in fostering a
recognition within the Government and BWDB of a need for reform, and an open and far-reaching
process of discussion and policy development. This process, if continued successfully, may be the
most important long-term benefit of the project.
36.       Future rehabilitation projects should routinely address environmental damages that may
have occurred as a result of the original design and provide for mitigation measures, rather than
simply rehabilitating according to the original design criteria.
10



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                       ai          Li            Li           Fl
Sector policies                      C           E[1           0             0
Financial objectives                Fi           EC                          O
Institutional development              i                       L            L7
Physical objectives                  C           EC              i           O
Poverty reduction                   L            E             L            L
Gender issues                       E            L                          
Other social objectives             L            L             L            ED
Environmental objectives              Ei                        L           L
Public sector management            LiE                        Li           L
Private sector development          L            L             E            L
Other (specify)                     L            L             L            L
B. Project sustainability           Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
Higl
C. Bank performance             satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                    L                          Li
Preparation assistance            L                          Li1
Appraisal                         L            Li
Supervision                       L                          Li
11



D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                          l          3           F
Implementation                    Fl            al1
Covenant compliance               ED           [ 
Operation (if applicable)                                   _7 1l
Highly                                      Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                 Year of approval              Status
Preceding operations
1. Cr.1215-BD                Extend training and visit system of        1982         PCR 1992              PAR
Extension & Research 11      extension.                                              1994
2. Cr. 1287-BD               Increase food production by increasing     1982         PCR 1991
Deep Tubewells 11            irrigated area and strengthening
cooperative system.
3. Cr. 1384-BD               Strengthen and expand cooperative          1984         PCR 1993
Rural Dev. 11                system and BRDB.
4. Cr. 1455-BD               Strengthen agricultural research system.   1984         PCR November 1993
Agri. Research 11
5. Cr. 1467-BD               Improve water regime to raise crop         1985         PCR 1996
BWDB Small Schemes           production.
6. Cr. 1591-BD               Increase in crop production through FCD.   1985         ICR 1996
Third Flood Control and      Strengthen BWDB.
Drainage
7. Cr. 1784-BD               Increase in crop production through FCD.   1987         ICR 1996
Fourth Flood Control and     Strengthen BWDB.
Drainage
8. Cr 1870-BD                Increase in crop production through FCD.   1988         ICR 1996
Small-Scale Flood Control and    Strengthen BWDB.
Drainage 11
9. Cr. 1876-BD               Protect and increase agricultural          1988         PCR 1991
Flood Rehabilitation 11      production by restoring priority
infrastructure.
10. Cr. 2048-BD              Protect and increase agricultural          1989        PCR 1997
Third Flood Rehabilitation   production by restoring priority
(Emergency)                  infrastructure.
Following operations
I. Cr.2233-BD                Improve impact of agricultural support     1996        Ongoing, closes June 30, 1998
Agriculture Sector Support   services.
2. Cr. 2246-BD               Promote growth in agriculture by           1991         Closed on 31 Dec. 1997
Nat. Minor Irrig. Dev.       increased private investment in minor
irrigation development.
3. Cr.2253-BD                Promote agricultural production, incomes   1991         ICR 1995
Shallow Tubewells and Low    and employment. Deregulation and
Lift Pumps                   encouragement of minor irrigation.
4. Cr. 2791-BD               Protection of river banks and formulation  1995         Ongoing
River Bank Protection        of National Water Plan.
5. Cr. 2783-BD      Coastal  Rehabilitate existing polders              1995         Ongoing
Embankment Rehabilitation
6. Water Sector Inprovement  Increase agricultural production &    2001 (proposed)   Under preparation
incomes. Flood protection. Redefine
GOB role in water sector. Beneficiary
participation. Rehabilitation and
Improvement
13



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project process                 |      Date planned       1          Date actual!
latest estimate
Identification                                                                       Late 1982 (SAR 1.22)
Preparation                                                                          FS Jan 1989 (SAR 1.23)
Appraisal                                                                             May 1989
Negotiations                                                                          January 1990
Board presentation                                                                    6 March 1990
Signing                                                                              23 March 1990
Effectiveness                                              21 June 1990               20 June 1990
Mid-term review                                                                      July 1994
Project completion                                         30 June 1997               31 December 1997
Loan closing                                               31 December 1997          31 December 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY91       FY92        FY93          FY94         FY95         FY96         FY97          FY98
Appraisal          5.0        10.3       22.0         34.0           42.4       47.7          52.0          53.9 1/
estimate
Actual             4.0         5.13       7.46         8.88          11.75      14.57          18.33        25.52/
Actual as % of    80          50         34           26             28         31            35            47
estimate
Date of final     Final disbursement is expected, based on applications received prior to 30th April 1998, by May 25, 1998.
disbursement
1/ SDR 9.9 million (about US$12 million equivalent) was cancelled from the credit on 31 December 1994; SDR 4.82 million (US$7.23 million
equivalent) was cancelled on 11 March 1996 and SDR 7.88 million (about US$9.47 million equivalent) on 22 December 1996. The reduced
credit of US$25.5 million is expected to be fully disbursed, based on applications received prior to 30 April 1998.
2/ Estimated.
14



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.   Key implementation indicators
in SAR                          Estimated in SAR                   Actual
Subprojects Rehabilitated &Improved  80                 35 1'
Area Rehabilitated and Improved   600,000 ha gross      414,000 ha gross
400,000 ha net        253,168 ha net
On-Farm Development               17,000 ha gross        127 ha Polder 55/1  2,230 ha Buri Teesta
Improved O&M Piloted              100,000 ha             112,967 ha
Number of Beneficiaries           700,000 families      460,750 families
Incremental Paddy Production      400,000 t/year        222,160 t/year
Incremental Farm Labour Demand    25,000 man-years/year   32,000 man-years/year
Employment during Construction    100,000 man-years     62,300 man-years
Issue Revised Irrigation Water Rate    31 December 1990  1 July 1992
Rules
Implement Revised Assessment &    3 subprojects(KIP, MIP,  2 subprojects (KIP & CIP), which failed
Collection System                 CIP)
Professional Staff Trained        150                    1 1 l(to 9/97)213 if workshop attendance
added
Support Staff Trained             1000                  313 (to 9/97); 600 inc w/s
Operators Trained                 900                   255 (to 9/97); 504 inc w/s
Beneficiaries Trained             2500                  696 (WUG training)
Maintenance Group Members Trained                        801
Allocation for Maintenance Works,                             Tk million
Electricity and Fuel
FY90                              Tk 256 million        211 allocated
FY91                              Tk 309 million        224 allocated
FY92                              Tk 358 million        265 allocated
FY93                              Tk 399 million        336 allocated
FY94                              Tk 450 million        556 allocated
FY95                              Tk 516 million        717 allocated; 642 spent
FY96                              Tk 591 million        966 allocated; 748 spent
FY97                              Tk 684 million        961 allocated: 715 spent; 70% of O&M
needs funded
FY98                              Tk 771 million        791 allocated + 10,000 t wheat
One subproject has 4 components: total sometimes considered as 38.
15



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR                               Estimated in SAR                    Actual
1. Improved O&M Major 1/                60,000 ha                      60,428 ha
2. Improved O&M Small FCD 2             40,000 ha                       47,789 ha
'' KIP, MIP and CIP.
2' Nawabganj.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study              at appraisal/redefined        Status           Impact of study
1. Feasibility of 60      To recommend eligibility   49 completed plus   Used to select
Subprojects            for inclusion in the project  review of 16 appraised  suprojects for
subprojects          implementation.
2. Benchmark Studies on 9    Assessing project's impact  Completed (1992)  Poorly presented.
Subprojects            and drawing lessons during                     Only limited use for
implementation                                evaluation
3. Mid-Term Evaluation    Assessing project's impact   Dropped, relevant  None
Studies                and drawing lessons during  thematic evaluation
implementation           study was undertaken'
4. Final Evaluation Studies   Assessing project's impact  GON made       Qualitative social
and drawing lessons      independent FES in   impacts assessed. Poor
collaboration with all   economic re-
partners and         evaluation.
stakeholders on 7
subprojects, in place
of 9 as planned
originally
5. Modelling for CIP      Make & validate           Complete             Used for design of
mathematical model, train                     irrigation and drainage
staff, transfer model to                      network
field office for improved
management
6. SSSFCDI Mitigation Plan  Recommend mitigation   Complete              GOB expected to
measures for SSSFCDI                          implement
project                                       recommended
mitigation measures
Thematic studies such as: Embankment Maintenance Groups ( T.R. No. 43), Role of WUO in Water Mgt. (T.R.
No. 54, Local Initiatives in Water Mgt. (T.R. no.55) and Landless Contracing Societies (T.R.No. 56)
16



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign     Total       Local     Foreign     Total
costs      costs                 costs       costs
Item
1. Rehab. & Imp.                70.4        3.4       73.8        37.9          0       37.9
2. Imp. O&M                     17.5        0.1        17.6       14.6          0        14.6
3.Ofd.                           1.0                    1.0        0.3          0         0.3
4. Training and Staff            2.5        0.8         3.3        1.8          0         1.8
5. Technical Assistance          6.6        7.6        14.2        7.8       11.8        19.6
6. Equipment & Vehicle           0.5        0.6         1.1        1.6        2.4         4.0
TOTAL                           98.5       12.5       111.0       64.0       14.2        78.2
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)           Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign     Total         Local       Foreign     Total
costs      costs                   costs         costs
Source
IDA                             50.9         3.0       53.9            25.5          0      25.5
European Union                   11.4        3.5        14.9            6.2        7.6      13.8
Government of Netherlands         6.6        6.0        12.6            5.5        6.6      12.1
Domestic contribution            29.6                  29.6            26.8          0      26.8
TOTAL                            98.5       12.5       111.0           64.0       14.2      78.2
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
r > --                       ~~~~~~~~~Appraisal Estimnate 3tv   ICR Estimate9H
Total Costs (Tk million)1'                Not available                       2,728
Total Benefits (Tk million) Y             Not available                      18,561
Total Net Benefits (Tk million) u            1,145                           15,833
ERR (%)                                       37                               30
NPV at 12% (Tk million)                       214                             1995
" Total for 25 years.
2/ Based on 5 appraised subprojects.
3' Based on R&I of 32 subprojects, excluding KIP, MIP and CIP and 2 river bank protection subprojects
(see Appendix B, Table 38).
17



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Bangladesh
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Agreement                             Original    Revised
Section        Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment    Description of
type 1/  status 2/    date        date         covenant           Comments
DCA   3.01(a)         5,10      CP                                Borrowers           Although MWR is
commitment to carry  committed to
out the project with   objectives of the
due diligence &    project, BWDB's
efficiency.        commitment has been
less than
wholehearted.
3.01(b)        11        NC                                Allocation for     Allocation for FY98
maintenance works &  less than FY97 and
energy to be increased less than needed.
by 10%/y in real
terms until all
requirements for
O&M are covered.
3.02           10        C                                 Works to be selected  First 16 selected prior
according to criteria in to appraisal. Others
Schedule 6.        generally complied.
See below.
3.03          3          C                                 Procurement to be    A small amount of
according to Sched. 3  inappropriate
misprocurement
found in audit of
NCB contracts. A
warning was issued
and no further
problems found.
3.04           10        C                                Rehab. works to be to Generally complied.
agreed design
standard and
specification
3.05           10        CP                                Land acquisition plans Serious delay due to
& funds to DC 12 & 6 frequent non-
months respectively  compliance.
before construction.
4.01(a)        5         C                                 Borrower to maintain
records
4.01(b&c)      I         C                                 Audit reports to IDA   Late in 1992 and
within 9 months of    1993. Audit queries
end of FY (i.e. by  not followed up.
31/3).
Sch.4  Pam 1          10        CP                                Subproject committee Replaced by Project
to be established at   Councils (PCs).
planning stage.
18



Agree                                 Original    Revised
ment   Covenant type    Present  fulfillme    fulfillment   Description
Section        11          status 2/   nt date      date           of            Comments
covenant
Para 2           10          CD        31 July 1990                Consultants to be      Consultants appointed
appointed.            by GON and CEC in
October 1990 and
September 1991,
respectively.
Para 3           10          CD        30 June 1994                Proposals for          O&M plan prepared
improvement of O&M  and approved by
procedures to be      BWDB.
submitted.
Para 4(a)        10          CD        30 Nov 90                   Draft annual O&M       Often late.
31 March                   program & budget to
each year                   be submitted.
thereafter
Para 4(b)        10          C         31 Dec90                    Draft annual programme  Sometimes late.
31 July each                & budgets to be finalized
year thereafter
Para4(c)         10          CD        31 March each               Draft aggregate O&M    Some delay. FY95
year from 1992              budgets to be submitted. received Oct 94; FY94
received Dec 93; FY93
received Oct 92.
Para 5           2           CD        31 Dec 90      1 July 92    Revised Water rate.
Rules to be issued.
Para 6           10          CD                                    For 10 nominated       10 provisional PCs
subprojects. Phased   formed. Some contracts
implementation, i.e. no   signed before land
contract signed before   available..
land obtained, design
completed and Project
Council formed.
Para 7(a)        10          CP        31 Jan 1995                 Remaining subprojects to 26 provisional PCs
have Project Council.   formed.
Para 7(b)        10          C         31 Dec95                    (i) Each subproject to
have trained O&M staff.
(ii) Action initiated to
form WUGs, EMGs,
CMGs.
(iii) Subprojects to have
annual maintenance plan.
(iv) Collect scheme data.
Para 7(c)        10          CP        31 Dec96                    (i) Develop arrangement Arrangements not fully
for adequate O&M.     adequate.
(ii) Collect scheme data.
(iii) No contracts for
works not completed by
31/12/96.
Sch. 5   Para 2          1           C                                      Special Account to be    Some misuse in FY92.
used only for eligible    Money repaid.
expenditure.
19



Agree                              Original    Revised
ment  Covenant type   Present  fulfillme   fulfillment  Description
Section       I/         status 2t   nt date    date          of           Comments
covenant
Sch. 6   (c)           10         C                                   Feasibility studies
confirmns proposals are
sound and ERR >1 5%.
(d)             10         CP                                 Beneficiaries to actively  Beneficiary participation
participate in subproject. generally limited to
Social problems fully   initial consultation
discussed.           during rapid nural
appraisal and some
operation of sluice gates.
11 Covenant types:
I = Accounts/audits; 2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries; 3 = Flow and utilization of project funds; 4
= Counterpart funding; 5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency; 6 = Environmental covenants;
7 = Involuntary resettlement; 8 = Indigenous people; 9 = Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 = Project implementation not
covered by categories 1-9; 1 l = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/regulatoryfinstitutional action; 13 = Other.
2/ Present status:
C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; CP = complied with partially; NC = not complied with.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
I.OP 12.20 Special Accounts                             SA used for ineligible expenditure. Later repaid.
2.OPN 2.10 Irrigation water charges & cost recovery    Irnigation O&M costs generally not recovered from
beneficiaries.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                        Planned                 Revised                   Actual
project cycle                                                                      _
Weeks        US$       Weeks         US$         Weeks         US$
Preparation to appraisal                       na           na                                  99.5       255.1
Appraisal                                      na           na                                  38.8        107.5
Negotiations through Board approval            na           na                                   9.6         28.3
Supervision                                    na           na                                 190.0       299.5
Completion                                     na           na                                  12.7         52.5
TOTAL                                         na      ~    na                                350.6        742.9
na = not available.
20



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of         Month/      No. of     Days in   Specialized IDA staff    Implemen-                  Types of
project cycle       year     persons 2'   field3'   skills represented 4/  tation status   Developmen  problems
t objectives   polm
Through appraisal      1984         8+5                  C, E, T, N
through
May
1989
Appraisal through     Feb.
Board approval         1990
Supervision
I                      Mar 90    Form 590 update only                             I
2                     Sep 90         3          6              E,C                2             1
3                     June 91       5+3         10             E, C               2             1         Management
4                     Feb/Mar       3+3        2+9             E,D                2             I
92
5                      June 92    Form 590 update only                            2             1
6                     Oct 92        2+3         15             A,E                2                        Covenants
7                     Mar/Ap       5+ 3         23            A.D.E               2             1         Procurement
93
8                      Jun 93     Form 590 update only                            2          not rated    Procurement
9                     Nov 93       5+ 7         20            W, 1, E             3             3         Management,
Procurement
10                    May/Jun      5+5         26         W, 1, A,, D, E,        U              U        Management,
94                                                                                  Procurement
11                    Ap/May       5 + 6        32         W,1, A, D, E          U              U         Management
95
12                    Oct/Nov      3 + 3       23              1, E              U              U         Management
95
13                    Feb/Mar/     8+ 5         50        W, C, D, l, E, P       U              U         Management
Ap 96
14                   Jul/Aug        3          n.a.            E, D              U              U         Management
96
15                    Sep/Oct/     5+ 4         89           A, E, C             S              S            IOM
Nov 96
16                    May 97       5 + 4       29          D, E, I, U, P         S              S            IOM
17                    Oct/Nov      6 + 3       20           E, A,D, U            S              U         Institutional
97
Completion            Oct/Nov        4          20             E,C,A
11               ~~~~~97
I/ I = no problems;  2 = S  satisfactory or minor problems; 3 = U = major problems, unsatisfactory.
2/ IDA + other financiers. Some in Dhaka only.
3/ Days shown are full span of mission and not only days in the field outside Dhaka.
4/ A = agriculture; C = economics; D = disbursement; E = engineering; I = institutions; P = procurement; U = audit; W = water resources.
T = training; N = environment.
21



APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
CONTENTS
A. INTRODUCTION ...................................1
B. THE PROJECT ...................................1
C. MISSION'S FINDINGS ...................................2
Achievement of Objectives ...................................2
Project Costs ...................................5
Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................6
Project Sustainability ....................................7
Bank Performance ....8..............................8
Other Financiers' Performance ...................................8
Borrower Performance ....................................9
Economic Re-evaluation ...................................                                    10
Assessment of Outcome .................................. 11
Future Operation ..................................                                           11
Lessons ...................................                                                    11
D. FOLLOW-UP ..................................                                                             13



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2099-BD)
Appendix A
Mission's Aide-Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        A joint supervision and implementation completion mission, comprising Messrs. R.G.
Paterson and T. Lohavisavapanich (FAO/CP), S.A.M. Rafiquzzaman, J. Weijenberg and M. Sayeed
(World Bank), and M.R. Islam (Consultant), visited subproject sites and discussed project
implementation and results with concerned officials, consultants and other stakeholders. Messrs. S.H.
Khan and R. Karim of WFP, M. Alam of CEC, P. de Vries and B. Diphoorn of GON also took part
in the mission. Project files, reports and other records available in Bangladesh were reviewed. The
mission provided guidance on the Government's contribution to the ICR. The mission would like to
express appreciation for the friendly co-operation, assistance and hospitality received.
2.        This aide-memoire was discussed at a pre-wrap-up meeting with BWDB on 9 November
and finalised following a wrap-up meeting on 10 November 1997 at MOWR.
B. THE PROJECT
3.         At appraisal in 1990, the main objectives of the project were to protect and increase
agricultural production and incomes and to raise standards of living, particularly of landless people
and women, through rehabilitation and improved O&M (IO&M) of BWDB's existing flood control,
irrigation and drainage projects. Subsidiary objectives were to: (a) increase financing and encourage
more efficient use of funds for O&M; (b) improve skills and motivation of BWDB staff for O&M
tasks; and (c) increase involvement of the farmers in planning, construction and O&M, particularly
of on-farm works. The project was also to help to determine BWDB's staff requirements and training
needs and establish a technical unit at BWDB headquarters to improve planning, budgeting and
implementation of O&M.
4.        These objectives were to be achieved through (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 80 subprojects covering a gross area of about 600,000 ha (net about 400,000 ha); (b)
introduction of IO&M in BWDB's projects, starting in four schemes where infrastructure was still in
reasonably good condition; (c) on-farm development works and IO&M in two subprojects with
farmers' participation; (d) training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries, particularly for O&M; and (e)
provision of technical assistance to assist BWDB in planning, design and execution of rehabilitation,
improvement and O&M works and to help strengthen its organisation for O&M and staff
development. The total estimated cost of the seven-years project of US$111 million was to be
financed by an IDA credit of US$53.9 million equivalent, a grant from the Commission of the



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
European Communities (CEC) equivalent to US$14.9 million and a grant from the Government of
the Netherlands (GON) equivalent to US$12.6 million. The contribution of GOB equivalent to
US$29.6 million would be partly financed by food from the World Food Programme (WFP) through
Food For Work. The IDA credit was signed on 23 March 1990 and declared effective on 20 June
1990, following effectiveness of the GON and CEC grants. The IDA credit and the grants will close
as planned on 31 December 1997.
C. MISSION'S FINDINGS
Achievement of Objectives
5.           Key indicators for project implementation are listed below.
Key Implementation Indicator           Estimated                Actual                      Remarks
in SAR                       in SAR
Subprojects rehabilitated & improved    80                 35                       One subproject has 4 schemes.
Total sometimes considered as
38.
Area rehabilitated & improved        600,000 ha gross      414,000 ha gross         Revised target
400,000 ha net        280,925 ha net           310,000 ha net
On-farm development                  17,000 ha gross       127 ha Polder 55/1
6,000 ha net         2500ha Buri Teesta
Improved O&M piloted                 100,000 ha gross      112,967 ha
Number of beneficiaries              700,000 famnilies                              To be estimated by ICR mission.
Incremental paddy production         400,000 t/year                                 To be estimated by ICR mission.
Incr. farm labour demand             25,000 man-years/yr                            To be estimated by ICR mission.
Employment during const. & O&M       100,000 man-years                              To be estimated by ICR mission.
Issue revised Irrigation Water Rate  31 December 1990      1 July 1992
Rules
Implement revised assessment and     3 subprojects         2 subprojects (KIP and
collection system                    (KIP, MIP and CIP)    CIP), which failed
Professional staff trained           150                   111/213 (up to 9/97)     Number trained/trained +
__________________________________   ____________________                         workshop
Support staff trained                1000                  313/600 (up to 9/97)
Operators trained                    900                   255/504 (up to 9/97)
Beneficiaries trained                2500                  696                      WUG training
Maintenance group members trained                          801
Allocation for maintenance works,
elec. & fuel:                                                     .
FY90                           Tk 256 million         211 allocated
FY91                           Tk 309 million         224 allocated
FY92                           Tk 358 million         265 allocated
FY93                           Tk 399 million         336 allocated
FY94                           Tk 450 million         556 allocated
FY95                           Tk 516 million         717 allocated            642 spent
FY96                           Tk 591 million         966 allocated            748 spent
FY97                           Tk 684 million         961 allocated            715 spent. 70% of O&M needs
funded
FY98                           Tk 771 million         792 allocated            incl. additional Tk 100 million
2



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-M6moire
6.        Rehabilitation and improvement of subprojects has been much slower than anticipated
at appraisal due mainly to the late appointment of CEC financed consultants for feasibility studies
and design, delays in acquiring land for construction, protracted procurement procedures of BWDB
and unfamiliarity of BWDB staff with required project procedures due to rapid turnover of staff. The
rehabilitation and improvement works were often broken down into a very large number of small
contracts, thereby increasing the work load for BWDB; this also resulted in the employment of weak
construction firms with ineffective contract management; many responsibilities of the contractors,
such as setting out the works, were undertaken by BWDB staff. Many incapable contractors were
employed partly because the system of blacklisting such contractors is rarely enforced and the Bank
was unable to help. Until the Banks Sample Bidding Document was accepted by BWDB in 1995
procurement was often further protracted by discussions over conditions of contract. The number of
subprojects rehabilitated has been reduced to 35 with a net area of 280,935 ha, some 70% of the
appraisal estimate. It is likely that work will still be incomplete on three of these subprojectsl when
the Credit closes on 31 December 1997. The quality of construction is reported to be generally good
but there has been criticism of some designs, often because the design criteria of the original
structures have not been adapted to meet changed conditions or local requirements, which are often
contradictory. Nevertheless the completed work is generally satisfactory and effective. A survey
carried out for the FES2 found that over 80% of the respondents rated the infrastructure in their area
as having positive benefits to them. There is little doubt that rehabilitation and improvement is
worthwhile provided it can be shown to be economically viable. To be economically viable the works
would have to be sustainable.
7.        Improved O&M has been introduced in 6 subprojects Karnafuli Irrigation Project (KIP),
Muhuri Irrigation Project (MIP), Chandpur Irrigation Project (CIP) and four (out of seven planned)
flood control and drainage (FCD) schemes in Nawabganj Subdivision, which were said in the SAR
to be in good physical condition. However, it was found that this was not the case and rehabilitation
was found necessary. This seriously affected the project by delaying the introduction of 1O&M.
IO&M involves collection of basic scheme data, training of BWDB staff, improved planning,
budgeting and O&M procedures and in putting these into effect. Detailed annual planning for routine
and periodic maintenance includes needs-based budgets and an allowance for emergency repairs.
8.        In many subprojects Embankment Maintenance Groups (EMGs) comprising landless
women and Canal Maintenance Groups (CMGs) comprising landless men have been successfully
introduced. In September 1997, 88 EMGs and 11 CMGs were at work. However, delayed payments
(by 2 to 13 weeks) to these groups are reported in 10 subprojects. EMGs are generally considered to
be a good, cost-effective way of maintaining embankments. This prevents small damages increasing
over time until the magnitude of the work becomes such that it is necessary to employ contractors.
Regular maintenance of embankments has also improved trafficability resulting in some places (such
as Polder 55/1) in considerable increase in light traffic. BWDB has made a policy decision to engage
EMGs on all projects. It is essential that the EMGs are maintained after the Credit closes but this and
other worthwhile innovations have not been institutionalised. The mission has been told that this will
be done using FFW, but the modalities of this have not yet been finalised. Other than EMGs and
SMGs, beneficiary participation (despite considerable input from consultants) is generally limited to
sluice operating committees. Although many Water Users' Groups (WUGs), Water Users'
' Chaptir Haor and Polders 64/IC and 73/2; BWDB hopes to complete the polders before the Credit closes.
2 Ongoing Final evaluation survey, financed by GON.
3



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
Committees (WUCs) and Water Users' Associations (WUAs) exist, their only function is to make
requests to higher authority for action. There seems to be no feedback from these requests other than
sometimes implementation of their requests. The SAR did not discuss the formation of water users'
organisations (WUOs) (only subproject committees are referred to) and did not give any indication
of how beneficiaries other than EMGs would be involved in O&M. Guidelines for People's
Participation (GPP), initiated under the Flood Action Plan and subsequently adapted for use by
BWDB ) during the time of the first restructuring of the project, were formally accepted in mid-1995
by the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR). They were then found to be impracticable and are now
in course of revision; a revised draft is expected in November 1997 for discussion at a workshop to
be arranged.
9.        On-farm works were developed  in Polder 55/1 and less intensively in Buri Teesta
Irrigation subprojects but there is no evidence that the substantial increase in irrigated area, which it
was hoped this would achieve through improved distribution of water, has been obtained. This is
mainly due to shortage of water.
10.       Training and Staff Development. Over 565 rnan-months of consultancy will have been
used for training and staff development. This included training of trainers, designing and
implementing courses for BWDB staff and beneficiaries/maintenance groups, planning and
supervising the improvement of a training facility (now being built with funding from CEC) and
study tours. The training facility is expected to be completed following the hoped-for extension of
CEC's existing Financing Memorandum. More management training and training of staff at regional
accounting centres are needed. A staff inventory and job descriptions have been prepared and staffing
plans developed for all field units and BWDB HQ. Staff redeployment has been designed and
training responsibilities reorganised. A personnel management information system has been
implemented. The proposed reorganisation of BWDB has not used this information system putting
into doubt the usefulness of the entire exercise. There were two overseas study tours.
1I.       Monitoring. The SAR envisaged that a benchmark study (in year 1) and two follow-up
impact evaluation studies (in years 4 and 7) would be undertaken on 10 selected subprojects covering
engineering, agricultural and socio-economic aspects with a view to assessing the project's impact
and drawing lessons during project implementation. The benchmark study was completed in 1992,
two years after Credit effectiveness. The impact evaluation studies have not been conducted. Due to
the lack of progress of R&I work, the first impact evaluation, due after four years, was cancelled by
the external financiers. However, an independent final evaluation study (FES), financed by GON
separately from SRP, is in progress, covering three of the ten subprojects selected for the benchmark
survey and four others, chosen for their representativeness.
4



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
Project Costs
12.        Project costs are compared with appraisal estimates below:
SAR      I    Actual           SAR            Actual
Tk million                     US$ million
Land acquisition                       80.8            60.1             2.5                 l
Survey & investigation                  6.5             7.1             0.2
Rehabilitation & improvement         2070.4           1360.6           64.1
Improved O&M                          371.5           526.3            11.5
Maintenance during construction       242.3                             7.5
On-farm development                    32.3             9.6             1.0
Training/staff development             106.6           75.5             3.3
Technical assistance                  458.7           784.9            14.2
Equipment and vehicles                 35.5           145.9             1.1                 l
Miscellaneous                          176.9           16.9
Engineering and administration         180.9          206.3             5.6
Total                                3762.2          3190.0           111.0            78.5
13.        The final total project costs are estimated at Tk 3,190 million (US$78.5 million
equivalent), 15% (30% in US dollar) lower than the Tk 3,762 million (US$1 11.0 million) estimated
at appraisal. The cost of rehabilitation and improvement per net ha has reduced by about 7% in Taka
from Tk 5176/ha (US$160/ha) at appraisal to Tk 4842/ha (about US$121/ha) now. Substantial
increased cost was found in the increased inputs of the technical assistance resulting from the
changes in the project's focus from the implementation of R&I to IO&M involving people's
participation.
14.        Funding and Disbursement. The IDA Credit was revised from the original amount of
SDR 40.8 million (US$53.9 million equivalent) to SDR 18.2 million (US$25.5 million equivalent)
through three amendments. As of October 31, 1997, SDR 13.86 million (US$19.5 million equivalent)
were disbursed. By project closing date on December 31, 1997 1, the revised amount of IDA credit of
SDR 18.2 million (US$25.5 million equivalent) is estimated to be fully used.
15.        Commission of European Communities (CEC). The grant from  EU was increased
from ECU 13.5 million (US$14.9 million equivalent) to ECU 14.5 million (US$16.0 equivalent)
effective from May 1997. By project closing date, a total grant of ECU 12.5 million (US$13.8
million equivalent) is expected to be used. The balance would be cancelled, if not reallocated for
continuing with the training programme during the bridging period.
16.        Government of Netherlands (GON). The grant in Guilders from GON was increased
from Dfl 20.6 million (US$12.6 million equivalent) to Dfl 23.7 million (US$11.9 million equivalent).
By project closing date 2, total expenditures are estimated at Dfl 24.2 million (US$12.1 million)3.
I IDA Disbursement would continue till April 30, 1998.
2 GON Disbursement would continue till April 30, 1998.
3 Exchange rate fluctuations cause the amount in US dollars to decrease.
5



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
17.       GOB and World Food Programme (WFP). GOB was to contribute US$29.6 million,
including WFP's contributions of US$20.6 million. By project closing date, total GOB's
contributions are estimated at US$27.1 million, including WFP's allocation of a total of 92,703 tons
of wheat and Tk 6.6 million (total US$15.9 million equivalent) allocated by WFP.
18.       Cost Recovery.  The recovery of O&M costs, particularly for irrigation projects, has
long been an issue of major concern. In the early 1980s the Water Rate Act was promulgated and put
into effect but without success. The Act was revised in 1990 and a study was conducted under the
project to amend the rules of this act and prepare a manual on assessment and collection procedures.
The modified rules were approved by BWDB on I January 1992 and then by GOB and became
effective on 1 July 1992. The introduction of cost recovery then began in the Ichamati unit of KIP
and later in CIP, and was closely linked to the introduction of IO&M. Charges were based on the
actual cost of IO&M and excluded costs related to flood protection and water supply. Elected
members from WUGs (often pump owners and operators) were made liable for collecting the charge
from the farmers benefiting from their pump and handing the collected fees to BWDB, keeping a
small commission. In practice many pump owners, elected by the WUGs, collected from the farmers
but did not pass on to BWDB, who did not have sufficient powers to enforce this. Naturally payments
rapidly dwindled once farmers and pump owners saw that enforcement was not possible. Assessment
and collection have now been suspended. BWDB are now considering modifications to the rules and
procedures for assessment and collection of irrigation fees but, with the political will lacking and
present social and cultural attitudes, the chances for success in the collection of irrigation fees in the
near future are slender. Privatising irrigation infrastructure, for instance by handing over to the users,
is a possibility that should be explored.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.       The project was seriously affected by invalid assumptions made at appraisal: that the
subprojects selected for IO&M were in good physical condition and would not need rehabilitation;
that the implementation schedule was practicable; that BWDB was institutionally capable of
successfully implementing the project; and that beneficiaries participation would happen easily. The
delayed arrival of the CEC financed consultants, which was beyond the control of the Borrower,
seriously affected progress in the early stages of the project. The nature of the project has been
changing throughout the implementation period, with the emphasis moving from construction
towards O&M and reorganisation of BWDB.
20.       Project Restructuring. The project was twice restructured. In 1994 it was agreed that
further rehabilitation and improvement would not be started because it was pointless if the completed
works would not be satisfactorily maintained. The main objective became the development of the
capability within BWDB to introduce sustainable IO&M to its schemes with a strong element of
beneficiary participation. The formation of three to five tiers of water users' organisations was added
at this stage. The number of subprojects was reduced to 351 with a net area of about 310,000 ha.
Phased implementation of subprojects was introduced for ten specified subprojects; this requires a
sequenced mode of rehabilitation, where a predetermined level of institutional development must be
achieved to qualify for project funds allocated for the next category of rehabilitation works. In 1996
One subproject has four components. The 35 subprojects are therefore sometimes considered as 38.
6



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
the development objectives were again revised by limiting them to ensuring that schemes completed
would be sustainable.
21.       In addition to the formal restructurings of the project, the project has also been used as an
instrument to encourage the implementation of the Water Board Reform Programme which was
introduced in 1994 and included a plan of actions which would trigger further processing of the then
proposed Credits for a Coastal Embankment Rehabilitation Project and a River Bank Protection
Project.
Project Sustainability
22.       The overall quality of construction of rehabilitation and improvement works is reported
to be good, which indicates that major maintenance is less likely to be needed in the short term. A
recent survey carried out for the Final Evaluation Study (FES) has shown that the water control
structures are highly valued by the communities they serve. Some flood control and drainage sluices
are now operated or controlled by committees of beneficiaries. The maintenance of embankments is
now often entrusted to EMGs, which work conscientiously and effectively. With these improvement
and provided the increased allocations for maintenance works made by BWDB since the start of the
project continue, it is not wholly unreasonable to assume that the IO&M that has been achieved will
be largely sustained at least in the short term. However the inability of the BWDB, even with the
assistance it had from the project, to transfer any maintenance responsibilities to the beneficiaries
indicates the difficulties in achieving this, which will not be easy and is likely to take time. Revision
of the GPP alone is unlikely to ensure the short term sustainability but will hopefully be effective in
the long term if sufficient funds for O&M are made available.
23.       The DCA requires that allocations for O&M works and energy be increased by 10% per
year in real terms until such times as all financing requirements for O&M are covered. Since FY94,
BWDB's O&M budget compares well with the projected amount, based on a 10% compounded
increase in real terms corresponding to FY89 allocation. From FY94 to FY96 this was achieved, not
only in the amount allocated but also in the amount spent. However in FY97 the amount allocated
decreased marginally and the amount spent decreased by over 4% (about 9% in real terms) and only
about 70% of O&M needs were funded. This breached the DCA covenant. The allocation for FY98 is
only 82% of the allocation for FY97, or 90% if 10,000 tons of wheat from WFP ( Tk 75 million
equivalent) are added to the recurrent budget. This breaches the covenant and is a sign that GOB does
not intend to allocate sufficient funds for O&M. At the same time, the allocation for salary in FY 98
is about 50% of the amount spent in FY 97, which will necessitate diverting the shortfall amount
from the maintenance budget. The sustainability of SRP works, as well as other BWDB schemes,
must therefore be considered unlikely.
7



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
Bank Performance
24.       When the project was identified in the early 1 980s it was consistent with the
Government's development strategy and with the Banks strategy for developing water resources in
Bangladesh. The Bank helped to organise, with UNDP financing, project preparation including
prefeasibility and feasibility studies, some detailed design and a report on organisation and training
for O&M. However, the emphasis on O&M needed for sustainability of the rehabilitated works was
lacking in the SAR. While the concept and objectives described in the SAR are generally clear, the
targets set were unrealistic and the implementation arrangements were very complicated. It was well
know and had been identified as lessons learned in several earlier PCRs that land acquisition and
procurement frequently delayed project implementation. Although identified as risks in the SAR, no
specific measures were included to overcome them. The implementation schedule seems to have
been designed to ignore these risks as if they did not exist. Although a project objective was to
improve O&M and train beneficiaries for O&M, it seems to have been the intention to confine this to
training EMGs and SMGs,l rather than the water users, who would have had more incentive to
maintain the systems in good condition. The failure to foresee  at appraisal that extensive
rehabilitation would be needed for the proposed pilot O&M irrigation subprojects was a serious error.
Only passing reference was made in the SAR to the fact that the project would affect people other
than farmers.
25.       The Bank fielded 14 supervision missions, which were joined by other financiers.
Generally, the missions were helpful to project implementation; however, the imposition of
additional constraints introduced by insisting on phased implementation for 10 subprojects when the
project was restructured in 1994 were so general that to some extent they were counterproductive and
thus were mainly ignored by BWDB2. A great deal of unjustified emphasis was placed on the
fornation of WUOs. However, because of the fundamental flaws in the GPP, the WUOs were not
given any responsibilities. Consequently, although the specified number are claimed to have been
formed they serve very little useful purpose. Despite the SAR specifying and allocating US$600,000
for a benchmark study and two evaluation studies, the ICR mission has very poor agricultural data;
supervision missions did not ensure that the results of the benchmark study were clearly presented
and allowed the two evaluation studies to be dropped. Supervision missions were instrumental in
having the project restructured to put more emphasis on O&M and twice to redefine the project's
objectives.
Other Financiers' Performance
26.        In general the four external financiers of the project co-operated well. IDA supervision
missions were frequently3 joined by representatives of the three other financiers and agreements
were usually (but not always with CEC) easily reached on such matters as restructuring the project
and Credit closing dates. Co-operation with WFP, particularly on quality of work, declined after
I Who may be considered to fall outside the usual definition of beneficiaries.
2 BWDB consider unreasonable the Bank's refusal to disburse against one contract in Chaptir Haor, started without
the Bank's approval.
3 Always by GON since 1991.
8



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
1994. Differing disbursement procedures from the three main financiers caused some confusion to
the frequently changing BWDB staff.
27.       The Government of the Netherlands financed IO&M, equipment and TA for IO&M
and project monitoring with no major problems. Their approach was flexible and decisions were
made quickly when needed such as to increase the scope of the consultancy services to match the
changing nature of the project. The consultants were effective in raising the quality of workmanship
and in insisting on correct documentation for disbursement, resulting in delays in disbursement and in
non-disbursement for works that did not conform to the requirements of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). The consultants produced many technical reports covering engineering and
organisational aspects of project implementation. The guidelines for the execution of SRP works (TR
48) and IO&M in water management projects (TR 33) and the Water Management Profiles (TR 50)
have been quite widely used. However, they were of limited use for lower level staff and none have
been translated into Bengali.
28.       The Commission of the European  Communities financed rehabilitation and
improvement, IO&M for 4 years, training, equipment and technical assistance. There was a delay of
about eighteen months by CEC in appointing consultants for subproject feasibility studies and
detailed design, which delayed project implementation. The failure of BWDB to take account of the
time needed (6 to 9 months from submission of a valid request) for replenishment of funds from CEC
often caused a shortage of funds available to BWDB. There was often a lack of feedback from
Brussels on the status of requests for funds so that BWDB often have no idea at all whether or not
their request has any chance of success. There was a delay of more than a year before a decision was
made to fund the construction of a training building.
29.       World Food Programme allocated resources for earthwork in the rehabilitation of
projects in accordance with the agreement with BWDB. In addition, from 1996-97 season WFP also
provides resources to support routine preventive maintenance activities through maintenance groups
consisting of women workers (EMGs) and involving NGOs as implementation partner. Unlike in the
past, from FY96, WFP, through its contributions from multidonors and GOB under its Rural
Development Programme, allocates cash in addition to wheat (30% cashl, 70% wheat) to ensure a
mixed daily ration for the workers involved in earthwork and maintenance activities.
Borrower Performance
30.       The Borrower employed consultants, financed by UNDP, to satisfactorily prepare the
main component of the project. During project implementation there was generally no shortage of
funds for project implementation and most covenants of the DCA were eventually complied with,
including those concerning increasing the allocation for maintenance2 and issuing revised Irrigation
Water Rate Rules. However, covenants concerning procedures for land acquisition and subproject
O&M programmes and budgets were usually in default. Although audit reports were generally
punctual audit queries were not followed up. The quality of construction was generally reported to
be satisfactory. Although the Borrower showed some commitment to the main objective of the
project, institutional weaknesses in BWDB, the implementing agency, seriously affected
implementation progress. The inability to adequately plan land acquisition and procurement,
' Contributed by GOB.
2 However, this covenant is now in default.
9



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
compounded by breaking the works into an excessive number of small contracts, helped to delay
implementation. BWDB often failed to process land acquisition as required by the DCA, which often
caused delay to implementation. The lack of multi-disciplinary units in BWDB encouraged
concentration on construction and makes co-operation with Bangladesh Rural Development Board
(BRDB), the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) and other agencies less likely. Changes
are now taking place with BWDB incorporating NGOs and other government agencies as
development partners. Staff shortages in the Land and Water Use Directorate (LWUD) of BWDB
were a continuing problem; this is expected to reduce novv that delineation has been agreed with
DAE and phasing out of LWUD is planned. MOWR's initiative to reorganise BWDB to emphasise
O&M, although not specifically a requirement of the appraised project, demonstrates a commitment
to the concepts of the project. MOWR appreciates that BWDB in its present form is unsustainable;
already there have been substantial reductions in staff, by nearly 3,000 in the last year. BWDB plan
to reduce from their present strength of about 20,000 (including 700 professional engineers) to about
10,000 by the year 2000. This would partly be done by natural wastage (1000 to 1200 people per
year) but enforced redundancies may also be needed.
Economic Re-evaluation
31.       The Spring 1996 supervision mission attempted to re-evaluate the project's economic
viability. However, this exercise has been postponed due to lack of information. Although the
benchmark surveys were conducted in 1991 for 10 subprojects I, the follow-up impact studies never
took place. The benchmark surveys provide some useful information on pre-project conditions, e.g.
existing facilities and O&M, socio-economic, agriculture, etc. However, the presentation of the
findings is complex and it is difficult to draw a full picture of the subprojects, particularly of the
cropping patterns and yields, which are presented separately for owner-operator and tenant.
32.       Through GON's initiative in late 1996 with the agreement of IDA, CEC and WFP, a final
evaluation study (FES) was launched in early 1997 by an independent consultant team under separate
funding provided by GON. The FES aims at assessing a wide range of SRP activities, including
design, implementation experience and the economic impact. The studies included a wide range of
interviews within BWDB and comprehensive field surveys in seven selected subprojects2. The draft
reports are currently being distributed to BWDB, bilateral donors, IDA, etc. for comments and the
final reports are expected by end November 1997 following a workshop on 11 November.
33.       The project benefits observed by visiting selected subprojects are yet to be quantified.
From the mission's field observations cropping intensities and cropping patterns marginally changed
between the pre-project and present situations. This indicates that SRP interventions to bring most
facilities back to their originally designed condition plus some additional structures have helped to at
least maintain the pre-project cropping intensities. In addition SRP R&I works have resulted in
positive agricultural benefits, differing in type and extent: assured supplemental irrigation has
resulted in a shift to HYV aman in Buri Teesta, regular embankment maintenance has resulted in a
shift from local to HYV boro in Pagner Haor and increased diversification in other FCD subprojects.
Buri Teesta Irrigation, Polder 64/l A, Polder 64/11B, Polder 55/1, Pagner Haor, Sangu River Protection, KIP, MIP,
CIP and Singri Beel.
2 Chaptir Haor, Singri Beel, KIP, Polder 64/1 B, Polder 55/1, Dardaria Khal and Kanchikata Khal. The selection of
subprojects were to represent the whole spectrum of subprojects in SRP and to reflect various levels of TA
inputs.
10



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
34.       The ICR mission will re-evaluate the financial impact and economic viability of four
subprojects, representing 38 subprojects implemented in SRP. The selected four subprojects are
Singri Beel, Chaptir Haor, Polder 55/1 and Buri Teesta Irrigation. The analysis will be based on
available information from the 1991 benchmark surveys, feasibility reports prepared during SRP,
1997 FES surveys, and additional interviews with farmers in selected subproject areas visited by the
ICR mission and the respective Thana/Union agricultural production data.
35.       Given the cost overrun (12% for the whole project and 52% for R&I of subprojects) due
to 50% reduction in project's physical scope, 30% reduction in the benefited areas from 400,000 ha
to 281,000 ha, lower and delayed accrual of agricultural benefits, ERRs of subprojects and the whole
project are expected to be substantially lower than the appraisal estimates (23%-38% for five
appraised subprojects and 37% for the whole project).
Assessment of Outcome
36.       The project has only partially (less than 50% of R&I subprojects) achieved the main
objective of increased agricultural production through rehabilitation and improvement. What has
been done has been generally successful but its sustainability is not certain. The subsidiary objective
of increasing finance for O&M by 10% per year in real terms has been achieved from FY94 to FY96
but not in FY97 and FY98. The overall goal of covering all financial requirements for O&M (DCA
section 3.01 b) has not yet been reached. Considerable progress has been made in planning and
reduction of costs for O&M and in improving the skills and motivation of BWDB staff for O&M
tasks. The involvement of farmers in planning, construction and O&M has been negligible. There has
been a noticeable change of attitude in BWDB with O&M now being accepted by many staff as an
important function of BWDB. Although the project achieved substantial results it failed to achieve
most of its objectives as defined in the SAR and had significant shortcomings. It must therefore be
assessed as unsatisfactory in comparison with the originally expected outcome and even with the
outcome expected following the first restructuring (July 1994). However, the project outcome might
be considered satisfactory if the expected outcome from the second restructuring (December 1996)
were to be achieved. However this may only be achieved with substantial delay. The final assessment
should therefore await the outcome of the economic re-evaluation.
Future Operation
37.       BWDB are relying on WFP to finance most O&M earthworks. An operational plan for
the future O&M of project works has been prepared by Chief Engineer SRP, BWDB and sent to WFP
for review. This is expected to be available for review by the Bank by 15 December. Careful review
will be needed to ensure that adequate allowance is made for O&M of structures and works not
covered by WFPs contribution. The plan should show performance indicators which can be used to
monitor operation and development impact.
Lessons
38.       BWDB need considerable encouragement to continue their reorganisation, reintroduce
irrigation service fees and develop peoples participation. While progress is being made on each of
these issues it is slow. The continued processing of the proposed Water Sector Improvement Project
should be made conditional on achieving clearly defined time-bound targets in each of these fields.
11



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-Mdmoire
39.       A multiplicity of donors with different requirements can cause confusion to government
staff, especially those lacking experience in external donor procedures, delaying effective
implementation and speedy reimbursement.
40.       Employing  consultants for supervision of construction and separate consultants for
feasibility study and design resulted in some conflict and made it difficult to effect quickly changes
to design, the need for which only became apparent when work was about to start.
41.       The importance of good planning of project implementation cannot be overstressed. The
time needed for the procedures necessary for acquisition of land and procurement in accordance with
Bank guidelines have been well known for many years yet still these factors are causes of serious
delay. The fact that rehabilitation projects often only require small areas of land does not detract from
the importance of this. The Bank's new requirements for involuntary resettlement, if followed,
should go some way to avoiding delays due to land acquisition in the future. The use of advance
procurement, larger contracts and consultants to assist with design and procurement before signing
the credit can all help to minimise delays.
42.       Increasing the involvement of farmers in planning, design and O&M is not easy. Perhaps
this is why the SAR did not spell out what was needed. In the Chorai Shomeshpur subproject where
farmers were involved in the planning and design process several improvements were achieved but it
took time. The formation of water users' organisations is pointless unless they have a worthwhile
purpose.
43.       Maintenance groups (EMG and CMG) have been successful and should be replicated
wherever practicable. It is important to ensure that those that exist do not wither for lack of resources
to pay them under the recurrent budget.
44.       Flood control and drainage schemes do not only affect farmers. Due attention must be
paid at all stages of the development to other aspects such as fisheries and transport.
45.       Before embarking on a pilot project for the collection of irrigation service fees it is
essential that a strong political will exists at national and local level and that the rule of law prevails
sufficiently to enforce sanctions on those who do not pay their due.
46.       The responsibilities of donors, GOB and MOWR to follow up on outstanding issues are
not clearly identified. They should be. Clear action plans should be prepared.
47.       Specifying in the SAR that benchmark and two evaluation studies will be done during
project implementation does not guarantee that the ICR mission will have adequate information on
which to base conclusions as to economic viability. The failure to conduct either of the evaluation
studies indicates a lack of interest by all concemed whether scarce resources are effectively used.
48.       Ensuring that the completed project is sustainable in the long term should be the first
priority in design of any water management project.
12



BANGLADESH: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix A: Mission's Aide-M6moire
D. FOLLOW-UP
49.       The FES will be discussed at a workshop on 11 November in Dhaka and important
conclusions reached will be incorporated in the ICR.
50.       The ICR mission will return to Rome to prepare a draft ICR which will be submitted to
the World Bank office in Dhaka by 15 January 1998. The Borrower will prepare and make available
to the Bank by 15 December 1997 its own evaluation report on the project's execution and initial
operation, costs, benefits, the Banks and Borrowers performance of their respective obligations under
the DCA and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved. A summary of this report,
or the whole report if it is ten pages or less, will be annexed unedited to the ICR. Other financiers
indicated that they would provide contributions to be annexed to the ICR.
13



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B.1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ON
SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(IDA CREDIT NO. 2099-BD)
Introduction
1.    Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) under the Ministry of Water Resources
(MOWR) has been established with the mandate for development and utilization of water
resources related to flood control, irrigation and drainage of the country. It is responsible among
other activities for the operation and maintenance of its completed projects (544 Nos) covering
flood control irrigation, town protection, salinity and erosion control and land reclamation. With
the passage of time, condition of these projects deteriorated to a great extent. The main reasons
for deterioration are as follows:
-     lack of adequate maintenance mainly due to shortage of fund;
-     lack of effective practices and procedures for O&M;
-     incomplete or partial project completion;
-     lack of beneficiaries participation;
-     changes in the hydrological condition since initial planning;
-     internal development by others without co-ordinated planning;
-     lack of inter agency cooperation and coordination;
-     inadequate operation and maintenance staff;
-     change in planning concept;
-     lack of institutional support.
As a result the need of rehabilitation of completed projects were felt and studies were taken up so
as to initiate and formulate a project for rehabilitation.
1



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B. 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Background
A.    Original project:
2.    Based on appraisal by the World Bank during 1988-89 on the conditions of the completed
projects of BWDB, the Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP) was initiated in 1991 comprising
the following components:
a)    rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of some 80 sub-projects covering a gross
area of about 6,00,000 ha.
b)    improved operation and maintenance (IO&M) of three irrigation projects and one group
of FCD projects consisting of seven small FCD Schemes.
c)    on-farm development of two sub-projects (BTIS & Polder 55/1).
d)   training of BWDB staff and beneficiaries and strengthening of BWDB's training and staff
development programmes.
e)    bench mark evaluation studies of 10 sub-projects;
f)    cost recovery - pilot study (KIP)
g)   technical assistance for study, planning, design, monitoring and training;
B.    Restructured projects
Physical implementation (1991-94) and fund utilization of the projects were not as per schedule
due to certain constraints. Employment of study consultants was delayed and consequently
progress of feasibility study, detailed design and land acquisition could not be achieved as per
scheduled Annual Development Plan (ADP). Clearance of annual work plan from EEC took
longer time which affected implementation programme. Also development of concepts in the
form of improved O&M and integrated water management and their practices and adoption in the
field took longer time. As a result achievement of the project performance was not satisfactory.
Based on the recommendation of May-June, 1994, Supervision Mission, the project was
2



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B. 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
restructured in Aug'94 keeping the objectives same but with reduction in scope and introduction
of phased implementation approach.
Major changes that came in due to restructuring of the project activities were as follows:
Rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance of 38 sub-projects covering a net area of
about 3,10,000 ha. Out of 38 sub-projects 10 sub-projects were included under phased
implementation.
-     improved O&M of three irrigation projects (KIP,MIP, CIP) and of four small FCD
schemes (Morichar Danra, Bhitabari Damosh, Beel Singri and Chorai Someshpur) in
Chapai Nawbganj.
3.    An Appraisal Mission of IDA, GON, EEC & WFP (Oct-Nov/95) reviewed the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) for the BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project which was completed in
February, 1996. The Donors supported the rehabilitation of sub-projects as per Development
Credit Agreement (DCA).
4.    For the successful completion of SRP sub-project activities, the execution period was
extended for six months from July'97 to Dec'97.
Scope of works
5.    Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP) included:
I.    Rehabilitation & improvement consisting of (a) feasibility studies & detail engineering
and (b) monitoring & quality control. The civil works were mainly rehabilitation of
embankment, canal, structure and preventive, periodic and emergency maintenance of
FCD system.
II.   Training & Staff development - (a) to provide training for capacity building of BWDB
staff and beneficiaries/ maintenance groups (b) to strengthen personnel planning & staff
development of BWDB.
III.   Bench Mark Evaluation Study to cover engineering, agriculture, socio-economic and
environmental aspects with a view to assess the projects impact and to draw lessons
during project implementation.
3



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B.l: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Implementation arrangements:
6.    BWDB under MOWR was responsible for implementation of SRP. Under Member
(O&M) the project office was headed by a Chief Engineer (O&M) with two Directorates namely
(a) Directorate of O&M and (b) Rehabilitation. The execution of field works was accomplished
through respective Zonal Chief Engineer (CE), Circle Superintending Engineer (SE) and
Executive Engineer (EE). The project works were monitored by the Directorates of
Rehabilitation and O&M as well as by GON-TA Consultants.
Project Design:
7.    Under the Systems Rehabilitation Project feasibility studies of 38 completed sub-projects
were carried out with EC funding. Cost of rehabilitation vvas borne by IDA, EC and WFP. O&M
works were financed by EC for first four years and by GON for three years.
Consultants
8.    Under EC-TA M/s. Halcrow & Partners Ltd. BCEOM  and DHV Consultants in
association with Development Design Consultants (DDC) and Approtech Consultants Ltd. were
engaged for feasibility study and for training & staff development. Under GON-TA, M/s. Euro
Consult, Hasconing and DHV in association with BETS Ltd. were engaged for monitoring,
quality control and improved O&M.
Objectives
9.    The main objectives of SRP were:
a)   to restore the project in original condition and to increase agricultural production
and income;
b)   to generate rural employment opportunity and to raise the standard of living,
particularly of landless people, through rehabilitation and improved O&M of
existing projects;
c)   to strengthen organizational set-up of BWDB and to improve skills and to foster
better motivation of staff for O&M tasks;
4



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B. 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
d)    to increase financing and to ensure more efficient use for O&M through better
planning and reduction of cost;
e)    to increase involvement of beneficiaries in planning, construction, O&M  and for
on-farm development works;
f)    to increase inter-agency cooperation and coordination.
Activities of SRP
10.   The Project activities were executed at the sub-project level, in varying degrees. In all,
SRP covered a total of 38 sub-projects which were grouped into 4 categories based on varying
objectives, activities and intensity of technical assistance for each sub-project:
1.    Model sub-project (MOPS)               4 Nos.(NCA 84916 ha)
2.    High Intensify sub-project (HIPS)      2 Nos.(NCA 36800 ha)
3.    Rehabilitation & Improvement
sub-projects (RIPS)                    22Nos.(NCA 78730 ha)
4.    Phased Implementation
sub-project (PIPS)                     I0Nos.(NCA 152779ha)
Initially R&I works of sub-projects (38) were slower than appraised for many reasons - mainly
due to late appointment of EC financed Consultant who were responsible for feasibility study
and detail design. The quality of construction of completed works were generally satisfactory and
effective. The infrastructure of the sub-projects rendered positive benefits to the locality. The
overall physical progress upto 31st December is 97% and the financial progress is 82%. The
remaining 3% of the physical progress is expected to be achieved after completion of the
construction work of Bhagyakul Training Institution(BTI) for which time has been extended upto
31st December, 1998 and the financial progress is expected to be achieved by the target date of
reimbursement.
5



BANGLADESH: BWDBI System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B. 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Improved O&M
11.  Improved O&M was introduced initially in 6 Sub-projects namely KIP, MIP, CIP, BTIS,
Polder-55/1 and 4 out of 7 sub-projects of Chapai Nawabganj Sub-Division. It involved the
works of canals, embankments and structures which were directly related to water management
activities. In SRP maintenance works were of preventive, period and emergency nature.
Preventive maintenance of embankment was done by the Embankment Maintenance Group
(EMG) which consisted of destitute women of rural area. They were affiliated with BRDB and
executed works round the year at regulator intervals or continuously. A total of 92 EMGs out of
targetted 157 were formed and maintained for 337.14 km of embankment. EMG was considered
successful and cost effective for the maintenance of embankments. BWDB has made a policy
decision to engage EMGs in all projects and to maintain them even after the expiry of the credit
by using FFW resources and fund out of GOB's revenue budget.
Canal Maintenance Groups (CMG) are for preventive maintenance of canal generally
consisting of landless (E 0.2 ha land) people. A total of 43 CMGs were formed and affiliated
with BRDB. In all 12 CMGs are actually working and maintaining 99.54 km of canal.
As per agreed decision of DONORs and BWDB, 25% of earth work are to be allocated to
Landless Contracting Society (LCS). Since 1992 a total of 367 reaches were allotted to LCS of
those 206 have been completed and the remaining 161 are nearing completion.
Water Users Organization (WUO) represents the core of SRP's institutional frame work
and expects to assume a major role in Integrated Water Management (IWM). The details about
the function, composition, insight and duties of this organization are described in the Guidelines
for People's Participation (GPP) prepared in May, 1994. The guide lines are under revision with
some fundamental issues of mutual delineation of duties and responsibilities of WIUO as well as
bottom up planning.
On farm development (OFD)
12.   OFD is one of the main components of SRP concepts. OFD were introduced in two pilot
sub-projects (BTIS & POLDER-55/1) covering gross area of 19,190 ha and net cultivable area of
13,870 ha. A number of pilot activities were undertaken through applying several field
techniques, bottom up planning, involving all stakeholders, WUO, EMG, CMG, SMG, inter-
related agencies, extension activities and cost recovery. The approach showed positive benefits.
6



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B. 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Project substantiability
13.   Because of improvement due to rehabilitation Water Control Structures (WCS) are
functioning properly. Many structures are now being operated and controlled by beneficiaries.
Maintenance of embankment and canal are often entrusted to EMGs & CMGs. They work
successfully and cost effectively. BWDB has taken a policy decision to engage EMG and CMG
in all projects. The Final Evaluation Study (FES) of SRP has provided useful information and
recommendation of future activities in respect of planning, design, agriculture and economy for
the sustainability of the project.
Donors performance
14.   The project had four donors namely IDA, EC, GON & WFP. The Donors prepared a Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) of SRP in 1990, with an estimated cost of US$ 111 .OOm where the
contribution of each donor was earmarked. The project cost was subsequently revised to
US$69.OOm through three different amendments (IDA-26.8m, EC-17.8m, GON-14.6m & WFP-
9.8m).
Fourteen joint review missions were fielded by the donors. They reviewed the SRP activities,
during implementation stages, changed guidelines and introduced additional conditions namely
(a) phased implementation approach for 10 sub-projects, where completion of one step was a pre-
condition for fund release for subsequent work. (b) formation of specific nos. of WIJO for each
sub-project (3) introduction of IO&M in parallel with rehabilitation. (4) cost recovery on pilot
basis.
Three main financiers, imposed different disbursement procedures, which sometimes created
confusion and hampered progress of work.
GON financed IO&M, procurement of equipments & TA for Monitoring of Progress and Quality
Control (MPQC). They also prepared many Technical Reports (TR-54) and Technical Notes
(TN-more than 150) on different topics - engineering, organizational, project implementation,
O&M etc. Some of them were very fundamental (TR 33, 48, 50) and seldom used at field level.
No simplified hand book was prepared as agreed in the aide-memoire.
EEC financed Rehabilitation and Improvement (R&I) and IO&M, training programme
procurement of equipments and technical assistance. The appointment of Consultants was
7



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B. 1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
delayed by 18 months at the very out set. Delay in the availability of funds and reimbursement
etc. consequently hampered the implementation of projects.
WFP contributed resources for earth work in the rehabilitation projects to support preventive
maintenance through EMG, CMG and thus helping alleviation of poverty from the project area.
Borrower performance
15a.  Rehabilitation activities played a vital role in assuring 'grow more food'. It has increased
agricultural production and income as well as changed cropped area, cropping pattern,
diversification of crops from local to HYV and from single to double, double to triple
with higher cropping intensity.
b)    Accomplishment of works achieved physically and financially  for IO&M  and R&I
respectively showed that concept of IO&M and R&I procedures are being adopted
gradually in all selected sub-projects. Four pillars of IO&M (basic scheme data,
budgeting, planning and implementation and monitoring) are being exercised by the field
staff. Implementation works, quality and progress seem to be satisfactory through
constant monitoring and review meetings held at different level. O&M plans are being duly
prepared and approved by the appropriate authority for execution.
c)    SRP concepts and approaches are transferred successfully to specific level in appropriate
time through application of information days, planning and evaluation meeting, training,
workshops and follow up meeting along with circulation of many technical reports and
notes to system managers and users. But their practices and its sustainability are at stake
without TA continuity.
d)    Several MOU signed between BWDB and other inter related agencies such as DAE,
BRDB, DOF, LGED etc. engaged in project area has created condition for better inter
agency cooperation and coordination.
e)    MOWR initiated the re-organization of BWDB to give emphasis on O&M  for its
maximum utilization.
f)    O&M  cost recovery programme and guidelines are being formulated for successful
implementation.
8



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B.1: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Lessons learnt from the implementationof the project
16 a) Involvement of multiple donors with different requirements and mid way re-structuring
causes confusion in implementation and delays works.
b)    Delay in acquisition and procurement of land is a hindrance for timely implementation of
the project.
c)    A clear cut strategy and institutional framework, users participation in planning, design
and O&M activities are essential for effective rehabilitation of physical infrastructures
and for sustainable WM. People's Participation for a continuous process and eventual
sharing of duties and responsibilities and recurring O&M costs without incentive is not
easy due to prevailing socio-political condition.
d)    Employment of maintenance groups (EMG &  CMG) has been successful and cost
effective and should be replicated in other projects.
e)     Sustainability of the completed projects should receive priority in respect of allocation of
fund to avoid its deterioration.
f)    Transparency regarding project management should prevail among system managers and
system users. Knowledge of local environment, land, crops and their suitability for water
management is required. Resource management by different stake holders should be
considered.
srp/o&m/c:/wp6O/resrpre/sattar
9



Bangladesh: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix B.2: BWDB's Operation and Maintenance Plan
BANGLADESH WATER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 2099-BD)
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) PLAN
Bangladesh Water Development Board is responsible among other activities for the operation
and maintenance of its completed projects (544 Nos.) covering flood control, irrigation, drainage,
protection against salinity, erosion control and land reclamation. With the passage of time
condition of these projects deteriorated to a great extent. To avoid further deterioration and to
boost up agricultural production incomes and to raise the standard of living particularly those of
landless persons and women through rehabilitation and improved O&M of existing completed
BWDB projects the Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP) was taken up in the year 1990-1991.
BWDB organizes O&M of its completed projects through Member (O&M) supported by 6 Zonal
Chief Engineer's offices, 16 Circles and 48 O&M Divisions. On farm development and water
management are being looked after by Land & Water Use Directorate while Land & Revenue
Directorate is responsible for assessment and collection of irrigation service fees.
BWDB existing O&M practices include (a) operation of infrastructure like pump house,
navigation lock, irrigation-drainage system, (b) maintenance of all infrastructure. The fund is
provided by Government of Bangladesh (GOB) from its revenue budget while a major
component of earthwork is carried out with the food assistance from WFP.
Presently the O&M is categorized by BWDB into three sub-heads:
(a)   Preventive Maintenance (through engagement of EMG, CMG, SMG etc.)
(b)   Periodic Maintenance (through engagement of contractors)
(c)   Emergency Maintenance.
Accomplishment of works achieved physically and financially for O&M and R&I respectively in
SRP projects showed that concept of IO&M and R&I procedures are being adopted gradually in
the completed projects of BWDB. BWDB is planning to introduce the experience of SRP in all
completed FCDI projects to ensure better project performance through IO&M with participatory
management approach as envisaged in the guidelines of peoples participation (GPP) in 1994
which is undergoing revision to suit the needs of the society. SRP has also developed O&M plan
for all its sub-projects and general O&M status reporting format for all BWDB projects. BWDB
has endorsed the document for adoption in all the projects. For preventive maintenance work
guidelines for Embankment Maintenance Group and Canal Maintenance Group has been
approved by the Board.



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C. 1: Government of Netherland's Contribution to the ICR
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE FUTURE'
Main Conclusions
1.    The analysis presented in this report has contained a range of conclusions at each stage.
These are consolidated here into a core set of main conclusion which, whilst presented very
starkly, capture the essence of the impacts of SRP, both positive and negative, and provide a base
upon which future approaches to the issues of rehabilitation and improvement, operation and
maintenance and the involvement of local people in water resources management can be built.
2.    Effective construction but poor sustainability: the key overall conclusion is that SRP
has been effective in reaching one of its main goals, which is to rehabilitate and improve water
control structure in order to benefit the population of the areas in which they are located (even if
the scale was less than originally anticipated) but unsuccessful in another, which was to develop
a sustainable process of operation and maintenance in order to ensure that the rehabilitated
structures do not deteriorate again. As such, whilst there are isolated examples of users
managing individual structures and many of the SRP initiatives improved the operational
effectiveness of the BWDB in this field, at the end of the project, there is not one sub-project in
which a sustainable, participatory system of O&M is in place. This means that the concerns over
the sustainability of investments are as real in 1997 as they were in 1990 when the project
started.
3.    Structural problems: the problems SRP encountered mostly reflected structural, rather
than operational, factors. These structural factors relate to both the approach to defining,
managing and implementing construction activities and the participation and O&M activities:
* The 'slow' progress and subsequent reduction in the number of sub-projects is a consequence
of unrealistic targets, the failure to include non-structural issues in construction management,
inadequacies in the design and planning system and the failure of all parties to recognise the
need to address these issues in the review process. The inherent complexity of the project
exacerbated these problems.
* The failure in the participatory process and in O&M (in terms of a sustainable system for
O&M) reflect the need to address fundamental policy and institutional issues before the
framework for a meaningful system to manage water resources and structures will exist. In
other words, the main problem was that these issues were approached in a project framework
whilst the key challenges were beyond the scope of any project. These issues are now widely
appreciated and the process of policy and institutional reform in the water sector suggests that
the pre-conditions for success may exist in the future.
These are in line with the conclusions and recommendations of the "Final Evaluation Study (FES)" of the
project, carried out with Dutch funding.
1



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C. 1: Government of Netherland's Contribution to the ICR
4.    SRP was needed: both of the goals of SRP (R&I and O&M) were valid. More than this,
the water control structures play a key role in rural life and are highly valued by rural people.
There is a clear and paramount need to ensure that those which have deteriorated are restored
and, where needed, improved. There is also a clear need to ensure that their deterioration does
not happen again, and that their functioning should reflect local needs and conditions. This in
turn led to a key conclusion that, whilst the job SRP was designed to do was an important one, a
classic project of this sort is an inappropriate vehicle to achieve these ends.
5.    Capturing local diversity: these local needs and conditions are complex and varied.
Future approaches must be based on an integrated water resources management approach, must
take account of the needs and interests of all stakeholders and must recognise the interactions
between local-level processes and the wider water resources environment.
6.    Building participation: from this, it is clear that the objectives relating to participation
are also needed if this is understood to mean the representation of all stakeholders in the
decision-making process. This in turn will be contingent upon the existence of an institutional
structure in which these interests are represented and which is linked into the wider institutional
framework above the local level. The field research demonstrated both the desire of local people
to be involved and their capacities to organise themselves and mobilise resources around water
management issues. It also showed the need to integrate participation into the process from the
beginning, and that any project needs to have an organisational structure and relate to institutions
which are compatible with such participatory goals.
7.    These are the main conclusions from the FES relating to the structural conditions of the
project and the goals which it was intended to meet. There are also many conclusions relating to
specific aspects of project performance. This includes fields such as construction quality and
management, the design process, specific institutional development activities intended to
enhance the capacities of the BWDB and the social, economic and environmental impacts of the
project and others.
8.    There is no need to repeat all of these conclusions here. Many aspects of the evaluation
of these components were positive, both in terms of their individual integrity and quality and in
terms of their impact on the culture and structure of the BWDB, though a number of negative
conclusions were also reached. There are consequently many positive outcomes from these
different parts of the project, with in particular a range of organisational and procedural changes
which have the potential to significantly enhance the BWDB's capacities. These are mostly
developed only within the project and need further actions to consolidate them and ensure their
full institutionalisation.
9.    Both the BWDB and the water sector as a whole are undergoing profound changes at the
policy and the institutional level. The experiences of SRP have both contributed to these
processes and illustrated the need for such changes. The surrounding environment in which SRP
was formed has changed to an extent that it is inconceivable that a project with the structural
2



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C. 1: Government of Netherland's Contribution to the ICR
faults of SRP would now be supported by either GoB or the donors. The direction of the changes
is an exciting one in which the potential for building a sustainable future for water resources
management now exists. The recommendations with which we conclude this report are intended
to build on the lessons learnt from SRP and contribute to this process.
The Way Ahead: Devolved Integrated Water Resources Management
10.   It is clear from these main conclusions of the FES that the problems which SRP
experienced reflect fundamental structural conditions of the policy, institutional and management
framework within which the project was formed and implemented. In this, SRP was a creature
of its times and, as we have seen, the times have changed. There is now an open and far-
reaching process of discussion, policy development and institutional reform in the water sector in
Bangladesh; a process which has few precedents in terms of scope or sophistication in the
contemporary world. The unthinkable is being thought and the undo-able done.
11.   This context has been an exciting one in which to execute this evaluation, and opens the
door for recommendations which go far beyond those associated with the immediate
implementation of SRP. The study team was specifically asked to consider these broader issues
by the FES Steering Committee; a process which has generated the following recommendations:
12.   Defining the Policy and Legal Framework: there has been a dynamic of policy
development in recent years. This needs to be taken further, with actions to turn the goal of
integrated water resources management in to a concrete reality. This will involve policy reforms
beyond the water sector and may entail primary legislation in areas such as property and water
rights. A coherent strategy is needed and should be developed urgently. This should be seen as a
high priority for external support, for a suitable policy and legal framework is a pre-condition for
any process of capacity-building and institutional reform.
13.   Multi-Agency Subsidiarity: the need for subsidiarity is clear, with the responsibility for
different aspects of the management of water resources and water structures devolved away from
the centre. In this, it is also clear that trying to do everything through one agency, the BWDB, is
inherently flawed.  There is a need for multiple agency involvement, including central
government departments, local government, NGOs and locally-based community organisations.
The division of responsibilities between these different levels and workable protocols for their
interaction and co-ordination are similarly essential. This is an inherently complex process
which involves re-defining mandates and levels of authority, re-directing budgets, capabilities
and facilities and establishing a clear and shared vision on where water resources management is
going. This in turn needs to be based on recognising the different characteristics of different
types of water resources issues. Some reflect national interests and processes, others are more
regional or district in character whilst yet others are predominantly local and should be managed
at this level.
3



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.1: Government of Netherland's Contribution to the ICR
14.   Reform of the BWDB: the process described here obviously means that a new mandate
and structure for the BWDB is needed. This should recognise and build on its strengths as a
technical agency and ensure that these traditional capabilities are not lost. In this, the BWDB
should act as a technical support agency to others who have direct responsibility for managing
water resources and structures at local and regional/district levels. Other agencies, such as the
LGED, should also have a role at this level and the 'clients' of these agencies should be able to
select who they see as the most appropriate service provider. The BWDB, as a central agency.
should also have direct responsibility for structures, resources and projects which are national in
character, acting in this as the guardian of the wider public good. Finally, the BWDB should
play a part in monitoring and enforcing compliance with national laws, standards and
regulations. In this, it again acts as the agency of national interest.
15.   Linking to Decentralisation: the process of subsidiarity described above should
specifically not be based around a set of dedicated, parallel institutions: the failure of the WUG
approach shows the inherent dangers of this model. Instead, it should be based around existing
institutions at the local level (with these being flexible and locality-specific) and these
institutions should be linked into the emerging structures of local government. The local
government tiers will in turn be directly responsible for structures and resources which are supra-
local in character and will have a responsibility to ensure that local-level institutions are
representative of all stakeholder interests, are not controlled by elite groups and act in a manner
which ensures long-term sustainability. Local government should also have a mediation role in
water resources conflicts. This should include mediating both between communities, where the
actions of one affect the interests of another, and within communities, providing a "court of
appeal" where conflicts cannot be resolved within the local organisations. One key issue which
needs to be addressed is the types and sources of resources the different levels will need to fulfill
their responsibilities. In principle, these resources should be generated locally, but some types of
transitional support is likely to be needed.
16.   Strengthening Local Institutions: the FES has demonstrated the potential of local
initiatives in water resources management, but has also identified the need not to idealise these
initiatives. Although they are well-developed in some areas, they are weak in others and will
need considerable support if they are to become the focal point of local-level management of
water resources and infrastructure. This local-level capacity-building should be seen as one of
the highest priorities for external support to the sector.
Actions to Consolidate the Lessons of SRP
17.   These points about basic structural and institutional reform have the potential to set a new
long-term trajectory for the future of the sector. They are by their nature long-term and there are
many actions which should be taken in the meantime to build on the lessons learnt during SRP.
As was noted above, there are a number of areas in which SRP has produced approaches and
4



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C. 1: Government of Netherland's Contribution to the ICR
procedures which have considerable potentials for improving the effectiveness of the BWDB.
There are also negative lessons to be learnt: what not to do next time as well as what to do better.
There is a danger that these potentials will be lost if concerted action is not taken to consolidate
them and integrate them into the changes which the BWDB is currently experiencing. Based on
this, we would advance the following recommendations:
18.   The long-term future of O&M  should be based on profound structural reforms to
institutions and policies (see above), but there will be a continuing need to ensure that O&M
takes place and improves in the interim. At present, this means ensuring that the BWDB has the
capacity and budget to undertake O&M, and that the progress made under SRP does not wither
after the project finishes.
19.   There is a need for continuing rehabilitation and improvement activities. The means
to achieve this should be considered and external support should continue to recognise this as a
priority area for support. Headlines such as "Flood control embankment at Zinapur on verge of
collapse" (The Independent, 2nd November 1997) demonstrate the urgency of such measures, for
the failure of these structures affects millions. These immediate and concrete realities should not
be lost in our drive for structural reform.
20.   The selection of what to rehabilitate where and, crucially, the details of the design process
should be based on locally-defined needs and priorities. This in turn means that the most
essential component of any participatory process is at this planning and design stage. This
should be a pre-condition of any future activities in this field.
21.   Steps to consolidate SRP approaches in both training and human resources management
and construction and O&M management need to be taken. This should include measures to
develop and institutionalise SRP products such as the personnel management system, the needs-
based planning approach, the quality control monitoring system and the new procedures on
tendering and contracting.
Changes to Project Structures and the Project Cycle
22.   A number of the problems in SRP reflect features of the project's structure and the cycle
of formulation, implementation and supervision. This is in addition to the issue of trying to
address structural reforms through projects. The following recommendations are intended to
ensure that the way projects run is not incompatible with their goals:
23.   The multi-donor structure of SRP, with each of the four donors having their own
policies and procedures, undoubtedly impeded implementation. Where similar multi-donor
structures are needed it is essential that a simpler, more transparent and more coherent
designation of responsibilities and procedures is adopted. If possible, there should be one set of
5



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C. 1: Government of Netherland's Contribution to the ICR
management and financial procedures. The ultimate goal should be for the BWDB to have one
set of procedures which apply to all projects, and for donors to work within this system.
24.   Future projects should have a project structure which reflects its goal and character.
This means that the sort of complex mix of local-level construction activities, participatory
development at the local level and institutional development at the level of the organisation
found in SRP present profound problems. Good project design will be needed to make sure that
a viable structure is in place, with specific detailing of how the management of different
components will be achieved.
25.   The setting of targets and project planning process must recognise and integrate the non-
technical aspects of investment preparation: consultation in design, land acquisition,
tendering, etc. A far longer preparatory phase before physical investments should start is needed.
The protocols reached in the Compartmentalisation Pilot Project regarding land acquisition
provide an important precedent in this field.
26.   Projects such as SRP, which have a major experimental dimension to them in terms of
developing new ways of doing things, should have greater flexibility in procedures, targets,
timing, budgets, etc. This is inevitably procedurally difficult but it would better reflect their
process nature and avoid the sort of self-defeating targetism which has characterised SRP.
27.   Integral to this should be the integration of adequate monitoring and evaluation into
project design and implementation. This must go far beyond the monitoring of physical and
financial progress and meaningless "benchmark studies" which have characterised SRP. This
approach should be based around the identification and monitoring of robust key indicators
which reflect both process and outcomes and which are based on field data collection.
28.   The sustainability of these structures must not depend upon central government revenues,
but future attempts at 'cost recovery' should wait until there is an adequate institutional base on
the ground in which the beneficiaries have the ultimate say over what is needed and how it
should be spent, but also bear the consequences of any failure to mobilise resources.
6



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.2: European Commission's Contribution to the ICR
European Commission's contribution to
Implementation Completion Report
ALA 89/06
Systems Rehabilitation Project (SRP)
Bangladesh Water Development Board
Introduction:
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of BWDB Systems Rehabilitation
Project, jointly funded by IDA, European Community, the Netherlands and the World Food
Programme. The total cost of the project at its inception was 111 million U.S Dollars, of
which EC's share was 14.9 million US Dollars. Through a modification of the Financing
memorandum in May 1997, the EC's share was increased to 16 million U.S Dollars (14.5
million ECU). The activities of the project under EC financing, except the construction of a
Training Institute, ends on 31.12.97. The financing memorandum is being extended up to
31.12.98 in order to complete the construction of the training institute.
Background of the project:
Government of Bangladesh has made large investment in flood control, drainage and surface
irrigation projects since the country became independent. These investments are important
for increasing the country's food production, agricultural productivity and rural incomes and
the security of rural population. Much of the potential benefits of these investments are not
being fully realized. Reasons for this include lack of effective operation and regular
maintenance, resulting in deterioration of the systems. This in turn is brought about by:
* shortfalls in funding for the BWDB under the Government budget;
* weaknesses in BWDB's organizational arrangements, procedures, staff capabilities and
motivation for operation and maintenance; and
* insufficient participation by the farmers and farmers' groups.
The need for Systems Rehabilitation Project was identified in 1982. A feasibility study was
organized which revealed that about half of BWDB's 400 projects required rehabilitation
works. Consequently, detailed feasibility studies for 21 sub-projects were completed during
end of 1988. Further more, a study was done in 1988 to analyze the O&M situation in some
irrigation projects.
In 1988, the Government of Bangladesh approached the Commission and the Netherlands in
connection with a possible cofinancing of the project.



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.2: European Commission's Contribution to the ICR
Project Description:
The underlying main aim of SRP is to protect and increase agricultural production and
incomes and to raise standards of living, particularly those of landless persons and women.
The overall objective of the project was to address the problems of inadequate operation and
maintenance (O&M) procedures. In conjunction with the rehabilitation works, parallel
programmes were being undertaken to improve BWDB abilities in the field of training, staff
development and expenditure planning as well as encouraging greater farmer awareness and
participation in the O&M of the sub-projects.
The project comprises following three components under EC financing:
1. Rehabilitation component: It covers the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed
engineering designs as well as tender documents for the rehabilitation and improvement
works of 65 (out of prior screening of 80) sub-projects included under the project, covering
an area of about 365,000ha. It also covers cost of rehabilitation and improvement works in
the following five sub-projects:
Buri Teesta Irrigation Project
Polder 55/1
Polder 64/1-A
Polder 64/1-B and
Sangu River Bank Protection.
2. Improved O&M component: It covers the cost of preventive maintenance and periodic
structure maintenance works in the following six sub-projects:
Chandpur Irrigation project
Muhuri Irrigation Project
Karnafuli Irrigation Project
Nawabganj O&M subdivision
Polder 55/1 and
Buri Teesta Irrigation Project.
3. Training and Staff development: This component is designed to overcome operational
inefficiencies in personnel planning and training in BWDB by:
* strengthening BWDB capability for personnel planning and development,
* strengthening BWDB training and staff development organization and
* upgrading the capacity of BWDB staff and beneficiaries in O&M through training
programmes.
The funding covers the cost of technical assistance, the production of training materials, the
organization of training prograrnmes as well as the purchase of necessary equipment and the
rehabilitation and expansion of the Hydrological institute of Bhagyakul.



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.2: European Commission's Contribution to the ICR
Implementation Arrangements:
Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB) under the Ministry of Water Resources
(MOWR) was responsible for implementing the project. The works were organized through
Rehabilitation Directorate for rehabilitation component, Operation and Maintenance
Directorate for improved O&M component and Training and Staff Development Directorate
for training and staff development component.
The TA Consultant: Sir William Halcrow/DHV/BCEOM and their local associates prepared
the feasibility studies and designs. The works were done in close consultation with the
executing agency, which approved the studies/designs.
Vehicles and equipment were procured for the supervision of works by BWDB. However,
the technical assistance provided by the Netherlands assisted the executing agency with
management and implementation, including supervision of rehabilitation and O&M works
covered under the project.
The Directorate of Training and Staff Development implemented the training and staff
development component with the assistance of the TA Consultant.
The TA Consultant provided assistance to strengthen the Training and Staff Development
Directorate to ensure efficient implementation.
The rehabilitation of Bhagyakul Training Institute is being implemented under the TA
Consultant's supervision and it is hoped that the work will be completed by June this year.
The Technical Assistance had a total of 748 man-months of which 157 were expatriate and
591 local.
Regular meetings (MOWR, BWDB and Donors) were held in order to monitor the progress
of the project.
Cost and Financing:
The EC contribution to the project was increased from 13.5 million ECU to 14.5 million
ECU. The component-wise cost breakdown is as follows:
in ECU
Description of Items    -    Financing             Actual expenditure  j Remarks  X
[leasibility study           12Memorandumprovision   up to 31.12.97   l
. ____ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __  _ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   2,885,331
Feasibility study    3,052,704              2,885,331 *_       _---
Rehabilitation of 5 sub-projects   2,950,000       2,950,000
& vehicles and    t 1,687,848             1,634,017           tConstruction in
Building improvement                                                  Bhagyakul is
(Bhagyakul)                     ___   _______-__ continuing_-
O&M in 6 sub-projects        2,900,000             2,900,000
Technical Assistance, Training    3,855,768        3,215,064
cost and evaluation                               l
Contingencies    _______  43,680
Total           __           14,490,000    __       1 3,584,412_



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.2: European Commission's Contribution to the ICR
Achievements:
The TA Consultant has carried out feasibility studies on 48 sub-projects (covering a gross
area of 361,367 ha, with a net cultivated area of 268,767 ha) and completed 37 final designs
(covering a gross area of 304,104 ha). The TA has prepared, in conjunction with BWDB:
* a planning methodology, which detailed the methods used for the surveys and
preparation of feasibility studies
* technical specification and design criteria
* O&M plan/manual etc..
Disbursement of advances for Rehabilitation and 0 & M is 100% complete. However, the
reconciliation of advances is not yet completed.
The TA has successfully completed a major reform in this section of the Water Board and has
introduced many new essential practices to reinforce and sustain the training and staff
development functions of BWDB, such as
a management information system
* annual performance appraisals and
* manpower planning.
A staff inventory and job descriptions have been prepared and staffing plans developed for all
field units and BWDB HQ.
Because the revision of the Guideline for people's participation was not completed, BWDB
was unable to implement any beneficiary training programmes.
Management training has been taken by 200 participants and management & planning
training by 813 participants. 14 BWDB officials took part in human resource management
training and 27 BWDB officials took part in courses on training management development
and production of training materials, both held in Thailand.
The TA made a training needs analysis of whole of BWDB.
The rehabilitation of Bhagyakul Training Institute could not be completed on 31.12.97.
Additional funds have been placed for the extension and completion of Bhagyakul Institute.
The validity of the financing memorandum is being extended up to 31.12.98 and a rider to the
TA Contract is being processed to supervise the construction and other related activity of the
Bhagyakul Training Institute.



BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.2: European Commission's Contribution to the ICR
New Project:
The Government had submitted proposal to the Commission for a new project entitled
"Strengthening Training and Staff Development" to replace the existing one to further
support training and staff development in the Water Board. As the extended project phase of
SRP accomplishes the objective of the project and as the proposed project does not figure
anymore in the present EC Bangladesh Co-operation Strategy, the Commission has decided
not to fund the project.
24.2.98






BANGLADESH: BWDB System Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C.3: World Food Program's Contribution to the ICR
World Food Programme
03 March 1998
WFP's Involvement and its contribution:
Since the inception of the System Rehabilitation Project (SRP) in FY91, the World Food
Programme has allocated 92,703 tones wheat and Taka 6,610,500 (total equivalent US$ 15.93
millions) for construction/rehabilitation of 1,050 km embankment, excavation/re-excavation of
800 km canal and year round routine maintenance of completed embankment started from
1996/97.
WFP emphasizes on the involvement of the poorest of the poor including women in the
implementation of earthwork activities. In SRP sub-projects, WFP attempted to involve Labour
Contracting Societies (LCS) in the implementation of schemes under WFP supported projects.
This approach appeared to be an effective way to select target beneficiaries for food aid and also
to bring qualitative changes in the implementation of earthwork activities. Based on the
experiences in SRP, BWDB in principle accepted LCS/NGO/Water User Committee as a
implementing partner and made necessary provision in the guidelines for Food Assisted Projects.
WFP focuses on improving the performance of the projects through the introduction of an
effective Operation and Maintenance (O&M) mechanism. WFP allocated resources for both
rehabilitation and O&M activities of SRP Sub-projects and emphasized on introduction of a
systematic long-term planning of resources for rehabilitation and maintenance simultaneously.
Subsequently, in 1996197, a strategy has been prepared for a year round routine maintenance for
projects under WFP-assistance including completed SRP sub-project. As has been tried in SRP
project (EMG), the food aided maintenance programme emphasizes both on maintenance of
infrastructure and on sustainable human development of the earthwork labourers (including
maintenance crew).
At large, involvement of different donors in SRP was very useful to pursue BWDB in initiating
actions to promote peoples participation in the overall management of the projects, joint efforts
were made to ensure that BWDB prepare necessary guidelines to strengthen the O&M of the
projects.
In addition, the views of WFP had been narrated in different aid-memoires prepared during the
project period which could also be referred to in preparing the ICR.



APPENDIX D
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
CONTENTS
A. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ..............................1
B. FARM INCOMES ...4...........................4
C. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ..............................4
D. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS ...6...........................6
TABLES
1.       Cropped Area, Yields and Production - Polder 55/1 Subproject
2.       Cropped Area, Yields and Production - Beel Singri Subproject
3.       Cropped Area, Yields and Production - Buri Teesta Subproject
4.       Cropped Area, Yields and Production - Chaptir Haor Subproject
5.       Cropped Area, Yields and Production - KIP Subproject
6.       Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Polder 55/1 - Pre-Project
7.       Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Polder 55/1 - Without Project
8.       Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Polder 55/1 - With Project
9.       Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Beel Singri - Pre-Project
10.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Beel Singri - Without Project
11.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Beel Singri - With Project
12.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Buri Teesta - Pre-Project
13.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Buri Teesta - Without Project
14.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Buri Teesta - With Project
15.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Chaptir Haor - Pre-Project
16.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Chaptir Haor - Without Project
17.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - Chaptir Haor - With Project
18.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - KIP - Pre-Project
19.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - KIP - Without Project
20.      Per Ha Financial Crop Budget - KIP - With Project
21.      Expenditures - Polder 55/1 Subproject and Beel Singri Subproject
22.      Expenditures - Buri Teesta Subproject, Chaptia Haor Subproject and
Dardaria Khal Subproject
23.      Expenditures - Karnafuli Irrigation Subproject, Chandpur Irrigation
Subproject and Muhuri Irrigation Subproject
24.      Expenditures - Sangu River Subproject and Kushiyara River Subproject
25.      Expenditures - Total Project



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
26.       Estimated and Actual O&M Costs
27.       Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
28.       Economic Price Derivation
29.       List of Subprojects
30.       Economic Analysis - Polder 5511 Subproject only
31.       Economic Analysis - Beel Singri Subproject only
32.       Economic Analysis - Buri Teesta Subproject only
33.       Economic Analysis - Chaptir Haor Subproject only
34.       Economic Analysis - Karnafuli Irrigation Project only
35.       Economic Analysis - Chandpur Irrigation Project only
36.       Economic Analysis - Muhuri Irrigation Project only
37.       Economic Analysis - Dardaria Khal Subproject only
38.       Economic Analysis - Whole Project - R&I of 32 subprojects
39.       Economic Analysis - Whole Project - R&I of 35 subprojects
40.       Economic Analysis - Polder 55/1 Subproject, including other project costs
41.       Economic Analysis - Beel Singri Subproject, including other project costs
42.       Economic Analysis - Buri Teesta Subproject, including other project costs
43.       Economic Analysis - Chaptir Haor Subproject, including other project costs
44.       Economic Analysis - Karnafuli Irrigation Subproject, including other
project costs
45.       Economic Analysis - Chandpur Irrigation Project, including other project costs
46.       Economic Analysis - Muhuri Irrigation Project, including other project costs
47.       Economic Analysis - Dardaria Khal Subproject, including other project costs
48.       Economic Analysis - Whole Project - 32 subprojects and other costs
49.       Economic Analysis - Whole Project - 35 subprojects and other costs



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2099-BD)
APPENDIX D
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
1.        At appraisal, incremental agricultural production was quantified from the improved
drainage conditions and expansion of irrigation resulting from rehabilitation and improvement
works (R&I), and maintenance of levels of production against potential losses should the
deterioration be allowed to continue. The average cropping intensities of the five appraised
subprojects (Buri Teesta Irrigation, Pagner Haor, Polder 55/1, Polder 64/lA and Polder 64/iB)
were estimated to increase from about 148% at the time of appraisal to 161% with project (WP)
with changes from paddy local varieties (LV) to paddy high yielding varieties (HYV), mainly
aus, aman and boro, and some crop diversification (oilseeds, potatoes, vegetables). Due to
deterioration in project facilities, cropping intensities without project (WOP) were assumed to
decline by 10%-20% starting the fifth year and thereafter. Therefore, incremental cropping
intensities with the project (WP) were estimated to range from 16% to 50%. Yields of paddy
WOP were assumed to remain at the present levels. However, yields of paddy WP were estimated
to increase by 7%-25%, representing an increment of 0.20-0.70 t/ha. By extrapolation of the
cropping intensities and yields of the five appraised subprojects to total net cultivable area of
about 400,000 ha, annual incremental production at full development was estimated at 400,000
tons of paddy, 60% of which represented a net increase over present production levels due to R&1
works and 40% represented avoidance (due to improved O&M) of losses as a result of future
deterioration of facilities.
2.        Benchmark surveys were conducted in 1991 for 10 subprojectsl but the follow-up
impact studies never took place. The benchmark surveys provide some useful information on pre-
project (PP) conditions concerning existing facilities and O&M, socio-economics and agriculture.
However, the presentation of the findings is complex and it is difficult to draw a full picture of
the subprojects, particularly of the cropping patterns and yields.
3.        Through initiatives of the Government of Netherlands (GON), a final evaluation
study (FES) was launched in early 1997 by an independent consultant team under separate
funding provided by GON. The FES aimed at assessing a wide range of SRP activities, including
the economic impact. The study included comprehensive field surveys in seven selected
Buri Teesta Irrigation, Polder 64/1A, Polder 64/1B, Polder 55/1, Pagner Haor, Sangu River Bank
Protection,Chandpur Irrigation Project (CIP), Muhuri Irrigation Project (MIP), Kamafuli Irrigation Project
(KIP), and Beel Singri.



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
subprojects 1. The production data from the FES, however, represents the agricultural situation
WOP because the surveys were conducted before the completion of R&I works of subprojects.
4.           The ICR mission re-evaluated the financial impact and economic viability of five
subprojects, selected as representative of the 35 subprojects implemented in SRP, excluding two
river protection subprojects. The five selected subprojects are Buri Teesta Irrigation, Chaptir
Haor, Coastal Polder 55/1 and Beel Singri Flood Control and Drainage (FCD) and Ichimati unit
of Karnafuli Irrigation Project (KIP). Two subprojects (Chaptir Haor and Beel Singri FCD)
selected for the analysis differ from those selected at appraisal for which only limited information
is available. The Ichimati unit of KIP is an additional subproject selected for the financial and
economic re-evaluation. Additional analysis has also been undertaken to assess the economic
viability of three further subprojects, Dardaria Khal (FCD), Chandpur Irrigation Project (CIP) and
Muhuri Irrigation Project (MIP), by using their actual investment expenditures and benefited
areas but the assumed cropping patterns and yields of the Beel Singri FCD and KIP, for which
better agricultural information is available. The analysis is based on available information from
the 1991 benchmark surveys, feasibility study reports of subprojects prepared during 1993-1994,
1997 FES surveys and additional interviews with farmers in selected subproject areas visited by
the ICR mission and Thana/Union agricultural production data.
5.          Cropping areas, yields and production and financial per ha crop budgets for the
selected five subprojects are presented in Tables 1-20 and summarised below:
Cropping Intensity and Yields
Buri Teesta          Chaptir Haor         Polder 55/1       Bee] Singri (FCD)       KIP
PP    WOP      WP      PP   WOP   WP    PP    WOP    WP    PP   WOP   WP   PP   WOP   WP
Cropping
Intensity    206   209    214     101    102   105   139   203       225   132   131   151   170  191   208
Yields
(tUha)
BAus       1.2   1.2      -       -      -      -     -      1.05    1.10   1.30   1.10   1.30   -    -    -
B Aman    -      -        -       1.20   1.50   1.50   -     -       -     -      -     -      -    -      -
Aus LV           -        -       -       1.00   1.00   1.09   1.60    1.65   -   -     -      -    -      -
AusHYV    2.80   2.80     3.00    -      2.00   2.00   1.80  2.55    2.65   2.62   2.74   2.80   2.83  2.83   2.83
Aman LV    2.27   2.10    2.30    1.57   1.83   1.83  2.00   1.73    1.80   1.80   1.65   1.90   2.20  2.12   3.00
Aman HYV  3.04   2.90     3.25    -      -      -     2.12   2.67    2.80   2.99   2.90   3.25   3.06  2.90   3.25
Boro LV    2.48   -       -       1.29   1.30   1.50  2.30   -       -                         2.48  -     -
Boro HYV   3.16   3.40    3.80    2.96   3.00   3.00   -     -       -     4.30   4.50   4.50   4.06  3.98   4.00
Wheat      2.20   2.20    2.20    0.74   1.84  1.84   -      -       1.80  2.00   2.00   2.00   -
6.           Cropping intensities PP ranged from  101%  at Chaptir Haor to 206%  at Buri Teesta.
The cropping intensity WOP in 1996/97 in all subprojects, except Buri Teesta and Chaptir Haor,
had already increased substantially by 20%-65% over the pre-project levels to 151% at Beel
Singri and 204% at Polder 55/1. Also, substantial areas were already brought under HYV aus,
aman and boro paddy and some high value cash crops (potatoes, vegetables, etc.). The expansion
in the cropping areas and adoption of HYV paddy were due to farmers' own initiatives to invest
more on farm inputs and on private minor drainage and irrigation equipment (low-lift pumps
Chatir Haor, Beel Singri, KIP, Polder 64/1B, Polder 55/1, Dardaria khal and Kanchikata khal. The selection
of subprojects were to represent the whole spectrum of subprojects in SRP and to reflect various levels of TA
inputs.



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
(LLPs) and shallow tubewells) . However, yields of aus and aman HYV paddy decreased by 5%/-
15% below the pre-project levels due to flash flood and drainage problems and interrupted
irrigation water supply.
7.        Protection from  flash floods and provision of improved drainage and assured
irrigation water supply are expected to induce farmers to further expand the cultivated areas and
to invest more on farm inputs resulting in increased cropped area, higher paddy yields and shift to
HYV paddy as well as diversification to other high value cash crops WP. In addition, expansion
of private minor irrigation equipment would help farmers to expand HYV paddy areas in all FCD
and FCDI subproject areas. Cropping intensities are estimated to increase by 3%-5% at Buri
Teesta and Chaptir Haor, and by 17%-22% at Polder 55/1, Beel Singri and KIP, substantially
lower than the overall increases of 16%-50% estimated at appraisal. Overall yields of aus and
aman HYV paddy WP are estimated to marginally increase by 2-10%, representing an increment
of 0.05-0.35 t/ha compared with an increment of 0.2-0.7 t/ha estimated at appraisal.
8.        At Coastal Polder 55/1, as a consequence of the more reliable water control, which is
now possible due to the construction of new irrigation inlets, and improved drainage due to new
flushing sluices, farmers are prepared to invest more on HYV seeds and other inputs. This results
in higher paddy yields as well as the ability to grow HYV rather than LV. The increased area of
HYV aus is due to the use of tidal irrigation through the new inlets.
9.        At Chaptir Haor, protection from flash floods and the existence of newly constructed
drainage facilities enable farmers to shift from LV boro to HYV boro and marginally increase
cropping intensity. Moreover, farmers have been draining the Haor by using LLPs to plant HYV
paddy earlier in order to avoid risk from flash floods.
10.       At Buri Teesta, the improved irrigation system has enabled only a modest increase in
irrigation in boro, as there is insufficient water to irrigate more, and has provided reliable
supplementary irrigation for about 2,200 ha of HYV aus and aman. Reliable irrigation also
improves yields and encourages a shift to HYV paddy and other cash crops. Without the project
this would be LV paddy. Despite its profitability, the tobacco area has been decreasing due to
marketing problems. With the construction of water outlet pipes, it is now possible to drain out
water at will. An increasing number of STWs is also helping to expand HYV aus and aman areas.
The drainage of swamp area downstream of the barrage brought about 100 ha back into
production. Similarly, at Ichimati unit of KIP, the rehabilitation and improvement of the irrigation
system will ensure that reliable water supply is maintained thereby avoiding reduction in cropped
areas and aman and boro yields.
11.       Beel Singri still suffers from regular flash flooding and inadequate drainage. Newly
constructed regulators offer the possibility of more controlled water management which will
result in increased cropped areas, higher paddy yields and a shift to HYV paddy. High land of the
Barind area has been increasingly used for growing vegetables as marketing is not a problem.
12.       By extrapolation of cropping intensities and yields from the five subprojects to 35
subprojects, covering the total net cultivable areas of 253,168 ha rehabilitated and improved
under the project, annual incremental paddy production at full development is re-estimated at



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
about 222,160 tons, valued at about Tk 1.1 billion (US$25 million), compared with the SAR
estimate of 253,168 ton per year (ICR Part II, Table 5).
13.       The project is estimated to generate an additional 9.6 million man-days per year of
on-farm employment at full development. A total of about 460,750 families would directly
benefit from the project. Given the uncertainty about the project sustainibility, a sensitivity
analysis has been made and the findings are in para 21.
B. FARM INCOMES
14.       At appraisal, the financial impact of the project on farm incomes was calculated for
the five appraised subprojects. Annual net farm incomes of one ha farms were estimated to
increase by 11%-48% over the pre-project income levels. For this ICR, based on cropping
patterns, yields and per ha financial crop budgets in Tables 1-20, annual net farm incomes of one
ha farms are re-estimated to increase by 21%-80% over the pre-project income levels for the five
selected subprojects, substantially higher than the increments estimated at appraisal. Incremental
annual net farm incomes of one ha farms are re-estimated to increase from Tk 5,355 -Tk 19,815
pre-project to Tk 7,440-Tk 26,365 WP. However, incremental annual net farm incomes in WP
would be smaller at I1%-32% over the WOP levels, or increments of Tk 1,740-Tk 4,300 as
shown below:
Annual Net Farm Incomes-One-Ha Farms (Tk)
Subprojects      Pre-Project    WOP       WP      Incremental      Incremental
(WP-PP)        (WP-WOP)
Tk     %       Tk        %
Buri Teesta Irrigation   17,910     19,270    21,630    3,720    21    2,360      12
Chaptir Haor             5,355      5,700     7,440    2,085    39    1,740       31
Coastal Polder 55/1      10,915     15,330    19,610    8,695    80    4,280      28
Beel Singri FCD          11,060     13,630    17,930    6,870    62    4,300      32
KIP (Ichimati unit)      19,815     23,800    26,365    6,550    33    2,565      11
C. ECONOMIC RE-EVALIUATION
15.       At appraisal, the economic evaluation was based entirely on agricultural benefits.
The added security against flood damage, better access to properties and public health benefits
due to improved drainage were recognized but not quantified. Similarly, the impact on fisheries
and water transport were not quantified. Assuming the import parity price for paddy and
including only direct investments on R&I works, the economic rates of return (ERRs) of
subprojects were estimated at 23%-45%. The ERR of the whole project, excluding costs and
benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP and two river protection subprojects, was estimated at 37% based
on extrapolation of ERRs of the five appraised subprojects. For this ICR, using the same appraisal
assumptions, ERRs of four selected subprojects (except Beel Singri FCD) are re-estimated at
13%-28% (Tables 30, 32-34). Lower ERRs are due mainly to substantial reduced benefited areas
(Buri Teesta from 6,070 ha to 2,232 ha and Ichimati unit of KIP from 15,600 ha to 3,238 ha),
delayed accrual of benefits and lower incremental cropping intensities and paddy yields (para 7) .



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
The extremely high ERR (97%) for Beel Singri (Table 31) is due to mainly low investment costs
but large benefited areas.
16.        The economic viability of FCD subproject has been tested by using the assumed
cropping patterns and yields of Beel Singri but the actual investment expenditures of the Dardaria
Khal (double those of Beel Singri) and the benefited areas (60% smaller than Beel Singri). Based
on these assumptions, the ERR of the Dardaria Khal is estimated at 25% (Table 37). Similarly, by
using the actual investment expenditures and benefited areas of CIP and MIP, the estimated ERR
are calculated at 28% and 34% respectively (Tables 35-36).
17.          By extrapolation of ERRs of the four selected subprojects for 32 subprojects,
excluding KIP, CIP and MIP, ERR of the whole project is re-estimated at 30% (Table 38). The
higher benefits contributed by FCD subprojects, comprising more than 50% of total benefits,
have significantly contributed to the high ERR of the whole project. Based on these assumptions
but including costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP, the ERRs of the whole project is estimated
at 29% (Table 39). The results of ERRs are summarised below:
ERR(%)
Subproject/Whole Project        Type of Subproject       SAR Estimates      ICR Estimates
Buri Teesta                           Small Irrigation            45                 14
Chaptir Haor                            Haor/Beel                 45 a/              28
Polder 55/1                           Coastal Polder              26 b/              17
Beel Singri                          Non-Tidal FCD                                   98
Dardaria                             Non-Tidal FCD                                   25
KIP (Ichimati unit)                   Large Irrigation                               13
CIP                                   Large Irrigation                               28
MIP                                   Large Irrigation                               34
Whole Project c/                                                  37                 30
Whole Project d/                                                                     29
a/ At appraisal, Pagner Haor subproject was selected.
b/ At appraisal, ERRs were estimated at 23.1% for Polder 64/lA and 37.9% for Polder 64/lB.
c/ Excluding costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP.
d/ Including costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP.



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
18.       The assumptions for economic re-evaluation followed those used in the SAR as
presented below:
(a)  The analysis period is 25 years;
(b)  All costs and benefits are expressed in 1997 constant prices. Past expenditures
have been re-stated in 1997 prices by using GDP deflator and MUV index.
Local costs and unskilled labour were further adjusted by a Standard
Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90;
(c)  Only the direct investment expenditures of R&I works were included in the
analysis (Tables 21-25);
(d)  Incremental O&M  expenditures have been used throughout the economic
analysis. Expressed in 1997 constant prices, incremental annual O&M costs
after completion of R&I works have been estimated at Tk 254/ha for FCD
subprojects, Tk 342/ha for irrigation subprojects, Tk 380/ha for haor/beel
subprojects and Tk 780/ha for coastal polder subprojects (Table 26);
(e)  Replacement assumed at 10 years for O&M and office equipment and vehicles;
(f)  Financial prices of outputs and inputs have been based on the 1997 average
market prices prevailing in the project areas (Table 27). Economic prices of
traded commodities, paddy, wheat, soyabean, TSP and MOP) have been based
on the import parity prices, and jute and urea on export parity prices. The
average 2000-2005 World Bank's Price Forecasts, October 1997, expressed in
1997 constant value and adjusted for trEnsport and handling charges to farm
gate prices (Table 28) have been used for the economic analysis. Non-traded
goods, including unskilled labour have been valued at their financial farm gate
prices, adjusted by SCF of 0.90;
(g) Build-up of agricultural benefits ( cropping patterns and intensities and yields)
have been assumed to occur over a five-year period. The phasing of benefited
areas by subprojects is presented in Table 29; and
(h)  All labour and draft power (family and hired) have been costed in the analysis.
D. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
20.        Several tests were carried out to test the sensitivity of ERRs to changes in key
variables: (i) inclusion of all project costs (not only the R&I investments but also training and
staff development, technical assistance and equipment and vehicles); (ii) inadequate O&M
budget; and (iii) a change in an assumption from import to export parity price for the calculation
of the economic price for paddy. If all project costs are included, the re-estimated ERRs are still
acceptable and favourable but they would fall to 12%-46% for all selected subprojects (Tables
40-47). The ERRs of the whole project, including all project costs, are calculated at 21% (Table



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
48) excluding costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP, and 22% (Table 49) including costs and
benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP. The results are summarised below:
ERR (%)
ICR Estimates
Subproject/Whole      Only Direct     Including All    Inadequate       Assuming Export
Project           R&I Costs       Investments     O&M Budget   Parity Price for Paddy
Buri Teesta                  14              12               6                  9
Chaptir Haor                 28              21               24                 14
Polder 55/1                  17              13               11                 6
Beel Singri                  98              46               81                 71
Dardaria Khal               25               19               18                 17
KIP (Ichimati unit)          13              12               2                  26
CIP                          28              23               18                 26
MIP                          34              22              21                  22
Whole Project a/            30               21              25                  19
Whole Project b/             29              22               20                 16
a/ Excluding costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP.
b/ Including costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP.
21.        Inadequate O&M budget has been a major constraint leading to deterioration in the
completed FCD and FCDI facilities resulting in decreasing cropped areas. it is possible that the
completed subprojects would be maintained at the FY90 budget level as incremental O&M
budget is not provided, therefore the completed facilities of subprojects would deteriorate and the
cropped areas WP decrease. To analyse the effect of such a situation it has been assumed that
cropped areas WP would have decreased by 5% in year 1, 10% in year 2, 15% in year 3, 20% in
year 4 and 30% in year 5 after completion of R&I works and thereafter. The decreased cropped
areas would be mainly in HYV aus, aman and boro, which would be replaced by LV paddy. Thus,
the WP production benefits would decrease by 3%, 5%, 8%, 10% and 15% respectively. The
analysis results show that ERRs are highly sensitive to this assumption. Including only R&I
investments, the ERRs would fall marginally for five subprojects but substantially to 2% for the
Ichimati unit of KIP, 6% for Buri Teesta and 11% for Polder 55/1. The ERR of the whole project



Bangladesh: BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix D: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
under these assumptions would still be favourable at 25% excluding costs and benefits of KIP,
CIP and MIP, and at 20% including costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP.
22.        Assuming Bangladesh was self sufficient in rice and the economic farm gate price
based on export parity paddy prices would decrease by nearly 40% from Tk 8,665/ton to Tk
5,324/ton, the incremental net production benefits would reduce between 25% and 55%
depending on the coverage of paddy cropped areas, ranging from 70%-87% at Beel Singri, Buri
Teesta, Ichimati unit of KIP and Polder 55/1 and almost 100% at Chaptir Haor. The ERRs,
including only direct R&I investments, would fall to acceptable rates at 14%-71% for five
subprojects, but below the opportunity cost of capital of 12% for Polder 55/1 (6%), Buri Teesta
(9%) and the Ichimati unit of KIP (10%). This indicates that future FCD and FCDI investment
would need to be justified by more diversification from paddy to other high value crops.
However, as noted earlier in para 17, because the large contribution to higher benefits by FCD
subprojects, the ERR of the whole project under these assumptions is still satisfactory at 19%
excluding costs and benefits of KIP, CIP and MIP, and at 16% including costs and benefits of
KIP, CIP and MIP.



Bangladesh                                                           Table 1
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Polder 55/1 Subproject
Pre-project 1/                     without Project 2/                    With Project 3/
Area (ha) Yield(t/ha)       Total   Area(ha) Yield(t/ha)    Total   Area (ha) Yield(t/ha)          Total
production                         production                           Production
(tons)                             (tons)                             (tons)
B Aus. LV                    0        0.00            0      1170         1.05        1229        390         1.10         429
T Aus LV                  871         1.09         949       1560         1.60        2496       1560         1.65        2574
T Aus HYV                 918         1.80        1652       1170         2.55        2984       3120         2.65        8268
T Aman LV                6882         2.00       13764       3120         1.73        5398        780         1.80        1404
T Aman LIV                   0        0.00            0         0         0.00           0          0         0.00            0
T Aman HYV                735         2.12        1558       4680         2.67       12496       7020         2.80       19656
B Aman                       0            0           0         0            0           0          0            0            0
Boro LV                     0             0           0         0            0           0          0            0            0.
Boro HYV                  101         2.30         232          0         0.00           0          0         0.00            0
Jute                        0         0.00            0         0         0.00           0          0         0.00            0
Wheat HYV                    0        0.00            0         0         0.00           0        230         1.80         414
Pulses                   1241         0.51         633       2106         0.56        1179       1170         0.56         655
Oilseeds                     0            0           0       156          0.6          94        160          0.6           96
Potato                      8         7.50          60        546         7.50        4095        780         7.50        5850
Vegetables                   0        0.00            0       234         5.00        1170        390         5.00        1950
Groundnut                    0        0.00            0       702         1.46        1025       1170         1.46        1708
Chillies                   28         0.60          17        390         0.67         261        780         0.67         523
Others                     57         1.25           71         0            0           0          0             0           0
Total Cropped Area      10841                    18937      15834                    32425      17550                    43527
Net Cultivable Area      7776                                7776                                7776
Cropping Intensity        139%                                204%                                226%
1/ Benchmark surveys, june 1992.
2/ Final Evaluation Study financed by GON, 1997, adjusted by additional field data and discussions with local
BWDB and DAE staff.
3/ Assumed increased irrigated area with newly construction of irrigation inlets and flusing sluices resulting in
shift from local to HYV Aus (40% of NCA) and Aman (90% of NCA) at full development.



Bangladesh                                                              Table 2
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Beel Singri Subproject
Pre-project 1/                     Without Project 2/                    With Project 3/
Area(ha) Yield(t/ha)       Total   Area(ha) Yield(t/ha)       Total    Area (h Yield(t/ha)         Total
production                         production                           Production
(tons)                             (tons)                             (tons)
B Aus. LV                 920         1.30        1196       1620         1.10        1782        480         1.30         624
T Aus LV                     0        0.00            0         0         0.00           0          0         0.00            0
T Aus HYV                 856         2.62        2243       1260         2.74        3452       1000         2.80        2800
T Aman LV                1343         1.80        2417        125         1.65         206        210         1.90         399
T Aman LIV                   0        0.00            0         0         0.00           0          0         0.00            0
T Aman HYV               7354         2.99       21988       5550         2.90       16095       7910         3.25       25708
B Aman                       0            0           0         0            0            0         0             0           0
Boro LV                      0            0           0         0            0           0          0            0            0
Boro HYV                 1917         4.30        8243       3990         4.50       17955       4630         4.50       20835
Jute                      108         1.43         154          0         0.00           0          0         0.00           0
Wheat HYV                 307         2.00         614        295         2.00         590        430         2.10         903
Pulses                    729         0=62         452        700         0.62         434        560         0.62         347
Oilseeds                  131         0.82         107        125         0.82         103        280         0.82         230
Potato                      71       10.06         714          0         0.00           0          0         0.00           0
Vegetables                296         6.58        1948        285         7.24        2063        600         7.24        4344
Fruits                     43        25.00        1075         20        25.00         500         30        25.00         750
Sugarcane                 213        28.00        5964        210        28.00        5880        200        28.00        5600
Others                       0            0           0         0            0           0          0            0           0
Total Cropped Area      14288                    47116      14180                    49061      16330                    62539
Net Cultivable Area    10822                                10822                               10822
Cropping Intensity         132%                               131%                                151%
1/ Feasibility study, 1994.
2/ Final Evaluation Study, 1997, adjusted by the mission by incorporating damages to both Aus and Aman.
3/ Expected increases in areas to Aman (HYV) and irrigated boro at full development.



Bangladesh                                               Table 3
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Buri Teesta Subproject
Pre-project 1/                     Without Project 2/                   With Project 3/
Area(ha) Yield(t/ha)      Total  Area(ha)  Yield(t/ha)    Total   Area(ha)  Yield(t/ha)          Total
production                         production                         Production
(tons)                             (tons)                             (tons)
B Aus. LV                 1017         1.20        1220       375         1.20         450          0         0.00           0
T Aus LV                     0         0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0         0.00           0
T Aus HYV                  173         2.80         484       311         2.80         871        530         3.00        1590
T Aman LV                 1391         2.27        3158      1258         2.10        2642        297         2.30         683
T Aman LIV                   0         0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0         0.00           0
T Aman HYV                 264         3.04         803       919         2.90        2665       1725         3.25        5606
B Aman                       0            0           0          0            0          0          0            0           0
Boro LV                    328         2.48         813          0           0           0          0            0           0
Boro HYV                   168         3.16         531       332         3.40        1129        495         3.80        1881
Jute                       369         2.20         812       240         2.20         528        240         2.20         528
Wheat HYV                  134         2.00         268       163         2.00         326        339         2.00         678
Pulses                     127         1.00         127       127         1.00         127         71         1.00          71
Oilseeds                   129          0.6          77       106          0.6          64        247          0.6         148
Potato                     125         7.00         875       283         7.60        2151        410         7.60        3116
Vegetables                  47         6.00         282       184         6.00        1104        212         6.00        1272
Kaon                        23         0.70          16        23         0.73          17          7         0.73           5
Tobacco                    309         0.90         278       346         1.00         346        198         1.10         218
Others                       0            0           0          0           0           0          0            0           0
Total Cropped Area        4604                     9745      4667                    12419       4771                    15796
Net Cultivable Area       2232                               2232                                2232
Cropping Intensity         206%                               209%                                214%
1/ Benchmark survey, 1992.
2/ Production data by DLWU, BWDB, 1996-1997, adjusted by additional field data and discussions with local BWDB and DAE
3/ Expected increases in irrigated areas resulting in expansion of irrigated aus and boro at full development.



Bangladesh                                                             Table 4
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
Chaptir Haor Subproject
Pre-project 1/                    Without Project 2/                   With Project 3/
Area(ha) Yield(t/ha)      Total  Area(ha)  Yield(t/ha)    Total   Area(ha)  Yield(t/ha)         Total
production                        production                          Production
(tons)                            (tons)                              (tons)
B Aus. LV                    0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0
T Aus LV                     0        0.00           0          5        1.00           5          5        1.00           5
T Aus HYV                    0         0.00          0         10        2.00          20         10        2.00          20
T Aman LV                   51        1.57          80        100        1.83         183        100        1.83         183
T Aman LIV                   0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0
TAaan YV                     0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0
B Aman                     281          1.2        337         25         1.5          38         55         1.5          83
Boro LV                   3424        1.29        4417      3250          1.3        4225      1650          1.5        2475
Boro HYV                   367        2.96        1086        790        3.00        2370      2400         3.00        7200
Jute                         0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0
Wheat HYV                   14         0.74         10          5        1.84           9         20        1.84          37
Pulses                       0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0          0        0.70           0
Oilseeds                     0            0          0          0           0           0          0         0.6           0
Potato                      12        8.29          99         20        8.29         166        40         8.29         332
Vegetables                   6         1.65         10          0        0.00           0          0        5.00           0
Groundnut                    0         0.00          0          0        0.00           0          0        0.00           0
Chillies                    21        0.42           9         1S        0.57           9         35        0.60          21
Others                       0            0          0          0           0           0          0           0           0
Total Cropped Area        4176                    6049      4220                     7024      4315                    10355
Net Cultivable Area       4125                               4125                              4125
Cropping Intensity         101o                               102%                              105%
1/ Feasibility Study, 1993.
2/ Final Evaluation Study financed by GON, 1997, adjusted by additional field data and discussions with local BWDB and
3/ Assumed 60% NCA will be covered by boro HYV at full development with improved water management.



Bangladesh                                                    Table 5
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Cropped Area, Yields and Production
KIP Subproject
Pre-Project 1/                      Without Project 2/                    With Project 3/
Area(ha)  Yield(t/ha)       Total  Area(ha)   Yield(t/ha)        Total  Area(ha)  Yield(t/ha)        Total
production                          production                           Production
(tons)                               (tons)                              (tons)
B Aus. LV                   0         0.00           0           0         0.00            0         0         0.00            0
T Aus LV                    0         0.00           0           0         0.00            0         0         0.00            0
T Aus HYV                 448         2.83        1268         318         2.83         900        300         2.83         849
T Aman LV                 570         2.20        1254         350         2.10         735        340         2.30         782
T Aman LIV                  0         0.00           0           0         0.00            0         0         0.00            0
T Aman HYV               2535         3.06        7757        2508         2.90        7273       2800         3.25        9100
B Aman                      0            0           0           0            0            0         0            0            0
Boro LV                   165         2.48         409           0            0            0         0            0            0
Boro HYV                 1709         4.06        6939        2088         3.98        8310       2200         4.00        8800
Jute                        0         0.00           0           0         0.00            0         0         0.00            0
Wheat HYV                   0         0.00           0           0         2.00            0         0         0.00            0
Pulses                      6         1.00           6          68         1.10          75         90         1.10          99
Oilseeds                    0            0           0          40         0.91          36        120         0.95         114
Potato                     15         9.14         137         221         9.14        2020        228         9.14        2084
Vegetables                 16         6.00          96         222         6.00        1332        200         6.00        1200
Chillies                   39         1.19          46         354         1.21         428        471         1.21         570
Sugarcane                   0         0.00           0           0         0.00           0          0         0.00           0
Others                      0            0           0           0            0           0          0            0            0
Total Cropped Area       5503                    17912        6169                    21110       6749                    23598
Net Cultivable Area      3238                                 3238                                3238
Cropping Intensity        1709                                 191%                                208%
1/ Benchmark survey, 1992.
2/ Final Evaluation Study, 1997, adjusted by the mission by incorporating damages to Aman.
3/ Expected increases in irrigated areas resulting in expansion of irrigated boro at full development.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                                                  Table 6
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Polder SS/1
Pre-Proj ect
B. Au      T. Au        T Au    T. Aman   T. Amusn        T. Aran                                 Whe           Pul      Oilseed    POtat   Vegetable         chilli      Tobacco    Other
output.                                   LV          HY          LV           L          HYV             NYV
Main Produce.
Yield(t/ha)                    0       1.09         1.8         2.0            0         2.12         2.3           0           0         0.51             0       7.5            0         0.6            0      1.25
Price/t                    5260        5260       4820         5260        4820         4820         4820       3700         5700         7000         15000      3230         3450       15600        25000      8500
Value                          0       5733        8676       10520            0        10218       11086           0           0         3570             0    24225             0        9360            0    10625
By-Products,
Yield(t/ha)                    0        1.3         1.8            3           0          2.1         2.3           0           0             0            0         0            0           0            0          0
Price/t                      800        800         800         800          800          800         800       1800          250             0            0         0            0           0            0          0
Value                          0       1040        1440        2400            0         1680        1840           0           0             0            0         0            0           0            0          0
Total Gross Value              0       6773      10116        12920            0       11898        12926           O           0          3570            0    24225             0        9360            0    10625
Inputs.
Seeds(kg/ha)                   0         40          40          40            0           40          40                       0            40            0       920            0           1            0         50
Price/kg                    8.4         8.4       11.1          8.4         11.1         11.1        11.1         40         11.3            20           20        10          150         100           80         20
Value                          0        336         444          336           0          444         444           0            0          800            0      9200            0         100             0      1000
Urea(kg/ha)                    0         20          40           50           0           50          50                       0             0            0        25            0          60             0        60
Price/kg                     6.3        6.3         6.3          6.3         6.3          6.3         6.3        6.3          6.3           6.3          6.3       6.3          6.3         6.3          6.3        6.3
Value                          0        125         250        312.5           0          313         313           0            0            0            0       156            0         375             0       375
TSP(kg/ha)                     0           0         20           20           0           30          30           0           0             0            0        30            0          80             0        30
Price/kg                     7.8        7.8         7.8          7.8         7.8          7.8         7.8         7.8         7.8           7.8          7.8       7.8          7.8         7.8          7.8        7.8
Value                          0           0        156          156           0          234         234           0            0            0             0      234             0        624             0       234
MOP(kg/ha)                     0           0          0            0           0            0          10           0            0            0            0         0             0          0             0         0
Price/kg                       9          9           9            9           9            9           9           9                         9                 9                             9
Value                          0           0          0            0           0            0          90           0           0             0            0         0            0           0             0         0



Page 2 of Table 6
Manure(t/ha)                  0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0                     0.0            0.0           0.0         0             0            0            0        0.0
Price/t                       135         135         135          135          135          135          135         135          135            135          135        135           135         135           135        135
Value                           O           0           0             0           0             0            0           0            0             0             0         0
Chemicals:
Value                           o           0         100          100            0          200           200           0            0             0             0       200             0            0            0          0
Irrigation costs                0           0           0            0            0         1500         4500           0            0              0             0      1625             0        1625             0          0
Total Labour(md/ha)             0         100         110          100            0          120           130           0            0            30             0       120             0          85             0         55
Price/md                       so          50          50           S0           so            50 so       so           so                        0so            so        so            so          50            50         5
Labour Costs                    0        1500        1650         1500            0         1800         1950            0            0           450             0      1800             0        1275             0        825
Total Animal Days(ad            0          30          40           35            0            47           40                        0            14             0        22             0          22             0         14
Price/ad                       75          75          75           75           75            75           75          75          75             75            75        75            75          75            75         75
Animal Costs                    0         675         900          788            0         1058           900           0            0           315             0       495             0         495             0        31S
Total Costs                    0        2636       3500          3192            0         5548         8631           0             0         1565              0    13710              0        4494             0       2749
Net Production Value            0        4137        6616         9728            0         6350          4296           0            0          2005             0    10510              0        4866              0      7876
1/ Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30* of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                                     Table 7
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Polder 55/1
Without Project
B. Au      T. AU        T AU     T. Ama      T. Aman      T. Ama                              Wh          Pu      Oilsee    Potat   Vegetabl        Chil Groundnut      Other
Output:                                      LV         HY           L           LI          BY            HYV
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)                   1.05         1.6       2.55        1.73            0        2.67          0         0        1.8       0.56         0.6       7.5            5      0.67       1.46          0
Price/t                       5260       5260        4820        5260         4820        4820       4820      3700       5700       7000       15000      3230        3450      15600      13000      8500
Value                         5523        8416      12291        9100            0       12869          0         0      10260       3920        9000    24225        17250      10452      18980          0
By-Products,
Yield(t/ha)                    1.5         1.8        2.3         2.5            0         2.7          0         0        1.8           0          0         0                      0          0          0
Price/t                       8B0   60       0        80 0 B00                 800 Boo                800      1800        250           0          0         0            0         0          0          0
Value                         1200        2440       1840        20D0            0        2160          0         0        450           0           0        0            0         0          0          0
Total Gross Value             6723        9856      14131       11100            0       15029          0         0      10710       3920        9000    24225        17250      10452      18980          0
Inputs,
Seeds(kg/ha)                    60          40         40          40            0          40          0         0         50         40          10       920           10         1         75          0
Price/kg                       8.4         8.4       11.1         8.4         11.1        11.1       11.1        40       11.3          20         20        10         150        100         45         20
Value                          504         336        444         336            0         444          0         0        565         800        200      9200         1500       100       3375          0
Urea(kg/ha)                     30          40         50          40            0          50          0         0         40           0         10        25           80        60         80          0
Price/kg                       6.3         6.3        6.3         6.3          6.3         6.3        6.3       6.3        6.3        6.3         6.3       6.3         6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3
Value                        187.5         250        313         250            0         313          0         0        250           0         63       156          500       375        500          0
TSP(kg/ha)                       0           0         60          20            0          25          0         0          0           0         30        30           60       100         80          0
Price/kg                       7.8         7.8        7.8         7.8          7.8         7.8        7.8       7.8        7.8        7.0         7.8       7.8          7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8
Value                            0           0        468         156            0         195          0         0          0           0        234       234         468        780        624          0
MOP(kg/ha)                       0           0          0           0            0           0          0         0          0           0           0        0            0         0         60          0
Price/kg                         9           9          9           9            9           9          9         9          9          9           9         9            9         9          9          9
Value                            0           0          0           0            0           0          8         0          0           0                   0            0         0        540          0



page 2 of Table 7
Manure(t/ha)                   0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        0.0                  0.0        0.0         0.0         0           0          0          0       0.0
Price/t                        135        135        135         135          135         135        135       135        135        135         135       135         135        135        135       135
value                            0          0           0           0           0           0          0         0          0           0           0        0           0          0          0          0
C m1cals.
value                          loo        100         lo0           0            0        100          0         0          0           0           0      200           o          0          0         0
Irrigation costs                 0          0          0           0            0        1500          0         0          0           0          0      1625        1625      1625           0         0
Total Labou(iNd/ba)             90        130        150         110             0        1S0          0         0        125          30         70       120         100         90        1S0         0
Price/si                        50         so         so          50           50          so         so        so         so         so          so        so          so         so         so        so
Labour Cots                   13S0       1950       2250        1650            0        2250          0         0       1875        450        1050      1S00        1So0       1350       2250         0
Total anial Daysad)             30         33         40          25            0          40          0                   28          14         18        22          22         22         46         a
Price/rd                        75         iS         75          75           75          is         7S        75         05         is          iS        is          7s         75         7s        7S
animal Costs                  675         743        t00         563            0         900          0         0        630        315         405       495         495        495       103S         0
Total Cost.                 2317        3379       4475        2955            0        s702          0         0       3320       iS5S        1952    13710         6088       4725       $324         0
wet Wtoduction Value          3907       6478       9657        8145             0       9328          0         0       7390       2355        7049    10515        11162       5727      10656         0
1/ Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30t of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                               Table 8
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Polder 55/1
With Project
B. Au     T.       T     T. Am    T. Am    T. Am                         W          P    Oilse    Pota  Vegetabl    Chil    Tobacc  Groundnu
output.                                                              H           HYV
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)          1.1   1.65   2.65        1.80         0      2.8        0       0      1.8      0.56       0.6    7.5          5    0.67          0       1.46
Price/t             5260    5260   4820       5260     4820      4820    4820   3700       5700      7000    15000   3230        3450   15600    25000        13000
Value               5786    8679  12773       9468         0   13496         0       0   10260       3920     9000  24225       17250   10452          0      18980
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)            2     1.8    2.3        2.8         0      2.8        0       0      1.8         0         0       0         0        0         0          0
Price/t              800     800    800        800      800       800      800   1800       250         0         0       0         0        0         0          0
Value               1600    1440   1840       2240         0     2240        0       0      450         0         0       0         0        0         0          0
Total Gross Va      7386  10119  14613    11708            0   15736         0       0   10710       3920     9000  24225       17250   10452          0      18980
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)          60      40      40        40         0       40        0       0       50        40        10    920         10        1         0         75
Price/kg             8.4     8.4   11.1        8.4     11.1      11.1    11.1       40     11.3        20        20     10        150      100        80         45
Value                504      336    444       336         0      444        0       0      565       800       200   9200       1500      100         0       3375
Urea(kg/ha)           40       50      60       40         0       60        0       0       40         0        10      25        60       60         0         80
Price/kg             6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3      6.3       6.3      6.3     6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3    6.3        6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3
Value                250  312.5    375         250         0      375        0       0      250         0        63    156        375      375         0        500
TSP(kg/ha)              0       0      60       20         0       30        0                0         0        30      30        60      100         0         80
Price/kg             7.8      7.8    7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8      7.8     7.8      7.8       7.8       7.8    7.8        7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8
Value                   0       0    468       156         0      234        0       0        0         0       234    234        468      780         0        624
MOP(kg/ha)              0       0       0        0         0        0        0                0         0        10       0          0       0         0         80
Price/kg                9       9       9        9         9        9        9       9        9         9         9       9         9        9         9          9
Value                   0       0       0        0         0        0        0       0        0         0        90       0         0        0         0        720



Page 2 of Table 8
Manure(t/ha)          0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0               0.0       0.0       0.0        0          0        0         0        0.0
Price/t               135     135      135      135       135       135      135     135       135       135       135     135        135      135        135        135
Value                   0        0       0         0         0        0         0       0        0         0         0        0          0        0         0           0
Chemicals:
Value                 100      100     100      100          0      200         0       0        0         0         0    200            0        0         0           0
Irrigation cos          0        0       0         0         0     1500        0        0    1350          0         0   1625        1625    1625           0           0
Total Labour(m        100     140      150      120          0      160         0              125        30        70    120         100       90          0        150
Price/md               50       50      50        50       50        50       50       50       50        50        50       50        50       50         50         50
Labour Costs         1500    2100   2250       1800          0     2400        0        0    1875        450      1050   1800        1500    1350           0       2250
Total Animal D         30       33      40        25         0       40        0                20        14        18       22         22      22          0         48
Price/ad               75       75      75        75       75        75       75       75       75        75        75       75         75      75         75          75
Animal Costs          675      743     900       563         0      900         0       0      450       315       405     495        495      495          0       1080
Total Costs         3029    3591   4537       3205          0     6053        0        0    4490       1565      2042  13710        5963    4725           0       8549
Net Production       4357    6528  10076       8504          0     9683         0       0    6220       2355      6959  10515       11287    5727           0      10431
1/ Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                           Table 9
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Beel Singri
Pre-Project
B.       T.         T      T. Am      T. Am        B                            W          P      oilse     Pota Vegetables         Fr Sugarcane    Groundnu
output*                                                                                    HYV
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)               1.3        0    2.62        1.80       2.99        0       4.3     1.43          2       0.62       0.82   10.06         6.58       25          28            0
Price/t                 5260      5260     4820       5260       4820    5260      4820      3700      5700       7000       15000    3230         3450    1000         1190        13000
Value                    6838        0   12628        9468      14412        0    20726      5291     11400       4340       12300   32494        22701   25000        33320            0
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)              2.62        0         2         2       2.99      2.5         3        0          2          0          0        0            0       0            0           0
Price/t                   800      800      800        800        800     800        800     1800       250           0          0        0            0       0           0            0
Value                    2096        0    1600        1600       2392    2000       2400        0       500           o          0        0            0       0            0           0
Total Gross Value        8934        0   14228       11068      16804    2000    23126       5291     11900       4340       12300   32494        22701   25000        33320            0
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)              100        0        37        35         36        0        36        9       117         36           9    1171          0.5       40        1000            0
Price/kg                  8.4      8.4     11.1        8.4       11.1     8.4       11.1       40      11.3          20         20       10         15O       65         3.7           45
Value                     840         0      411       294      399.6        0    399.6       360    1322.1         720        180   11710            75    2600        3700            0
Urea(kg/ha)                34         0       94        41         91        0        95       40        71           0          0       70          79      150         116            0
Price/kg                  6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3        6.3      6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3         6.3        6.3      6.3         6.3      6.3         6.3          6.3
Value                   212.5         0      588    256.25        569        0       594      250        444          0          0      438         494      938         725            D
TSP(kg/ha)                 12         0       50        20         48        0        58       19        39           0          0       54          43      300          58            0
Price/kg                  7.8      7.8       7.8       7.8        7.8      7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8         7.8        7.8      7.8         7.8      7.8         7.8          7.8
value                      94         0      390       156        374        0       452      148       304           0          0      421         335    2340          452            0
MOP(kg/ha)                  6         0       25          9        23        0        27       10         15          0          0       14           22     200          20            0
Price/kg                    9        9         9         9          9        9         9        9          9          9          9        9            9       9           9            9
Value                      54         0      225         81       207        0       243       90       135           0          0      126         196    1800          180            0



Page 2 of Table 9
Manure(t/ha)               0.0        0.0      1.0         0.5        2.0      0.0        2.5         0        0.0        1.0          1.0        2             1        0            0          0.0
Price/t                    135       135       135        135         135      135        135      135        135         135         135       135          135      135          135           135
Value                         0         0      135       67.5         270        0    337.5           0          0        135          135      270          135         0            0            0
Chemicals:
Value                        S0         0      150         100        200        0        300        75          0           0           0      100          100       S00          200            0
Irrigation costs              0        0         0           0       1500        0      4500          0      1350            0           0     1625         1625    1625              0            0
Total Labour(md/ha)        133          0      158        131         155        0        161      181          90          40          78      161          151       165         231             0
Price/md                    50        50        50         50          50       50         50        50         50         5o           50       50           50       50            50           50
Labour Costs              1995          0     2370       1965        2325        0      2415      2715       1350         600        1170      2415         2265    2475          3465             0
Total Animal Days(a         36          0       40          40         42        0         42        38         36          14          20       22           22        33           49            0
Price/ad                    75        75        75          75         75       75         75        75         7s          75          75       75           75        75           75           75
Animal Costs               810          0      900        900         945        0        945       855        810         315         450      495          495       743        1103             0
Total Costs              4055         0      5168       3820        6790        0    10186       4493       5715        1770        1935    17600          5722   13020          9025             0
Net Production Valu    4879             0     9060       7248       10014    2000      12940        798       6185       2570       10365    14894         16979   11980         23495             0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                                       Table 10
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Beel Singri
Without Project
B. A       T. A        T A      T. Ama      T. Ama        Bor                                W           P      Oilsee    Potat Vegetables         Friu Sugarcane       Groundnut
Output:                              L                       L           B                       HWV
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)            1.1           0       2.74        1.65         2.9          0        4.5           0         2       0.62        0.82         0        7.24          25           28            0
Price/t               5260       5260        4820        5260        4820       5260       4820        3700      5700       7000       15000     3230         3450        1000        1190         13000
Value                 5786           0      13207        8679       13978          0      21690           0    11400        4340       12300         0       24978      25000        33320             0
By-ProductS:
Yield(t/ha)            2.6           0       2.62         3.6        2.99          0         4.5          0         2           0          0         0            0          0            0            0
Price/t                800         Boo        800         800         800        800         800       1800       250           0          0         0            0          0            0            0
Value                 2080           0       2096        2880        2392          0        3600          0       500           0          0         0            0          0            0            0
Total Gross Val       7866           0      15303       11559       16370          0      25290           0    11900        4340       12300         0       24978       25000        33320            0
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)           100           0         37          35          36          0          36          0       117          36          9         0         0.5          40         1000            0
Price/kg               8.4         8.4       11.1         8.4        11.1        8.4        11.1         40      11.3          20         20        10         150          65          3.7           45
Value                   840          0        411         294       399.6          0       399.6          0   1322.1          720        180         0          75        2600         3700            0
Urea(kg/ha)              34          0        100          41          91          0         110          0        71           0          0         0           85        150          116            0
Price/kg               6.3         6.3        6.3         6.3         6.3        6.3         6.3        6.3       6.3         6.3        6.3       6.3         6.3         6.3          6.3          6.3
Value                212.5           0        625      256.25         569          0         688          0       444           0           0        0         531         938          725            0
TSP(kg/ha)               12          0         50          20          48          0          60          0        39           0           0        0           50        300           58             0
Price/kg               7.8         7.8        7.8         7.8         7.8        7.8         7.8        7.8       7.8         7.8        7.8       7.8         7.8         7.8          7.8          7.8
Value                    94          0        390         156         374          0         468          0        304          0           0        0          390       2340          452             0
MOP(kg/ha)                6          0         30           9          23          0          35          0         15          0           0        0           40        200           20             0
Price/kg                  9          9          9           9           9          9           9          9          9          9          9         9            9          9            9            9
Value                    54          0        270          81         207          0         315          0       135           0           0        0          360       1800          180             0



Page 2 of Table 10
manure(t/ha)            0.0         0.0         1.0         0.5          2.0        0.0         2.5           0       0.0         1.0         1.0          0            1           0            0           0.0
Price/t                 135         135        135          135         135         135         135        135        135         135         135       135          135         135          135           135
Value                      0          0         135        67.5          270          0       337.5           0          0        135         135          0         135            0            0             0
Chemicals:
Value                    S0           0         150         100          200          0         300           0          0          0           0          0         100         S00           200             0
Irrigation cost           0           0           0           0        1S00           0        4500           0      1350           0           0         0         1625        1625             0             0
Total Labour(md         133           0         160         131          155          0         170           0        90          40          78          0         160         165           231             0
Price/md                 so          sO          S0          sO           50         sO          S0          S0        S0          50          50        50           50          so            s0            so
Lgabour Costs          1995           0       2400         1965        2325           0        2550           0      1350         600        1170          0        2400        2475         3465              0
Total Animal Da          35           0          40          40           42          0          43           0        36          14          20          0          22          33            49             0
Price/ad                 75          75          75          75           75         75          75          75        75          75          75        75           75          75            75            75
Animal Costs            788           0         900         900          945          0         968           0       810         315         450          0         495         743          1103             0
Total Costs           4033           0       5281         3820        6790           0       10525           0      5715        1770        1935          0        6111       13020         9825              0
Net Production         3833           0      10022         7739         9580          0       14765           0      6185        2570       10365          0       18867       11980         23495             0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                                Table 11
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Beel Singri
With Project
S.       T.        T      T. Am      T. Asan         Boro                            V           p     Oilse    Pota Vegetables          Pr Sugarcane    Groundnu
Output,                                                              KY           L             HYV
Main Produce,
Yield t/ha)              1.3        0      2.8       1.90         3.25            0       4.5        0       2.1       0.62       0.82        0        7.24       25          28            0
Price/t                 5260     5260    4820        5260         4820         5260      4820     3700      5700       7000      15000    3230         3450    1000         1190       13000
Value                   6838         0   13496       9994        15665            0    21690         0    11970        4340      12300        0       24978   25000        33320            0
By-Products.
Yield(t/ha)              2.6         0     2.8        3.8         3.25            0       4.5        0       2.1          0          0        0            0       0           0            0
Price/t                  800      800      800        800          800          800       800     1800       250          0          0        0            0       0           0            0
Value                   2080         0    2240       3040         2600            0      3600        0       525          0          0        0            0       0           0            0
Total Gross Value       8918         0   15736      13034        18265            0    25290         0    12495        4340      12300        0       24978   25000        33320            0
Inputs.
Seeds(kg/ha)             100         0      40         35           36            0        36        0       117         36          9        0         0.5       40        1000            0
Price/kg                 8.4      8.4    11.1         8.4         11.1          8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20         20       10         150       65         3.7          45
Value                    840         0     444        294        399.6            0    399.6         0   1322.1         720        180        0          75    2600         3700            0
urea(kg/ha)               34         0      100        50          100            0       110        0        80          0          0        0          85      15O         116            0
Price/kg                 6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3          6.3          6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3        6.3      6.3         6.3      6.3         6.3          6.3
Value                  212.5         0      625     312.5           625           0       688        0       500           0          0       0         531      938         725            0
TSP(kg/ha)                12         0       60        25            50           0        60        0        29          0           0       0          50      300          58            0
Price/kg                 7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8          7.8          7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8      7.8         7.8      7.8         7.8          7.8
Value                     94         0      468       195           390           0       468        0       226          0           0       0         390    2340          452            0
MOP(kg/ha)                 6         0       40        15            30           0        35        0        25          0           0       0          40      200          20            0
Price/kg                   9         9        9         9             9           9         9        9         9          9          9        9            9       9           9            9
Value                     54         0      360       135           270           0       315        0       225          0          0        0         360    1800          180            0



Page 2 of Table 11
Manure(t/ha)             0.0      0.0      1.0        0.5          2.0          0.0       2.5        0       0.0        1.0        1.0        0           1        0           0         0.0
Price/t                  135      135      135        135          135         135       135      135        135        135        135      135         135      135         135         135
Value                      0        0      135       67.5          270            0    337.5         0         0        135        135        0         135        0           0            0
chemicals.
Value                     50        0      100        100          200            0       300        0         0          0          0        0         100      500         200            0
lrrigation costs           0        0        0          0         1500            0     4500         0      1350          0          0        0        1625    1625            0           0
Total Labour(sd/ha       133        0      165        140          170            0       170        0        90         40         78        0         160      165         231            0
Price/md                  sO       50       50         50           50           50        50       50        50         50         50       50          50       50          50          50
Labour Costs            1995        0    2475        2100         2550            0      2550        0      1350        600       1170        0        2400    2475         3465            0
Total Animal Days(        36        0       40         40           45            0        43        0        36         14         20        0          22       33          49            0
Price/ad                  75       75       75         75           75           75        75       75        75         75         75       75          75       75          75          75
Animal Costs             810         0     900        900         1013            0       968        0       810        315        450        0         495      743        1103            0
Total Costs            4055        0    5S07        4104         7217            0    10525         0      5783       1770       1935        0        6111   13020         9825            0
Net Production Val    4863           0   10229       8930        11048            0    14765         0      6712       2570      10365        0       18867   11980        2349S            0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGADIISH
BUDS SysteMs Rehabilitation Project                                                                     Table 12
Iselementation Completion Report
Per Ka Financial Crop Budget
Buri Teesta
Pre-Project
B.       T.        T     T. Am      T. Am       B                           if         P     Oilse    Pota Vegetables       Ka      Tobacc  Groundnu
output                                                                                Hw
Main Produce.
Yield(t/ha)             1.2         0     2.8      2.27       3.04    2.48     3.16      2.2         2          1       0.6        7           6    0.7         0.9           0
Price/t                5260     5260    4820       5260       4820    5260     4820    3700       5700       7000     15000    3230         3450   4000       25000       13000
Value                  6312         0   13496     11940      14653  13045    15231    8140    11400          7000      9000   22610        20700   2800       22500           0
By-Products.
Yield(t/ha)             2.4         0     2.8       3.5          3       3        3      2.2         2          0         0        0           0       0          0           0
Price/t                 800      800      800       800        800    800       800    1800        250          0         0        0           0       0          0           0
Value                  1920         0    2240      2800       2400   2400      2400    3960        500          0          0       0           0       0          0           0
Total Gross Value      8232         0   15736     14740      17053  15445    17631   12100    11900          7000      9000   22610        20700   2800       22500           0
Inputs.
Seeds(kg/ha)            100         0      30        30         40      30       30        8        80         35        10    1120           10      15          1           0
Price/kg                8.4      8.4    11.1        8.4       11.1    8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20        20       10         150       4         80          45
Value                   840         0     333        252       444     252      333      320       904        700       200   11200         1500      60         80           0
Urea(kg/ha)              25         0      80         30        75      30       80       30        60          0          0      50          80       0         60           0
Price/kg                6.3      6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3    6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3       6.3      6.3         6.3    6.3         6.3         6.3
Value                156.25         0     500      187.5       469     188      500      188       375          0          0     313         500       0        375           0
TSP(kg/ha)                10        0      60         20       100      40       60       45        60          0         0       40          50       0         45           0
Price/kg                7.8      7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8    7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8       7.8      7.8        7.8    7.8          7.8         7.8
Value                     78        0     468        156       780    312       468      351       468          0          0     312         390       0        351           0
MOP(kg/ha)                 0        0      10          0        60      20       40       30        20          0         0       30          30     40          50           0
Price/kg                   9        9       9          9         9       9        9        9         9          9         9        9           9       9          9           9
Value                      0        0      90          0       540    180       360      270       180          0         0      270         270    360         450           0



Page 2 of Table 12
Manure(t/ha)             1.0      0.0      1.5        1.5        3.0     2.0       4.0      2.3       0.0         1.0        0.0       3            1    1.5         1.5          0.0
Price/t                  135      135      135        135        135     135       135      135       135        135        135      135         135      135        135          135
Value                    135         0   202.5      202.5        405     270       540   310.5           0       135           0     405          135  202.5       202.5            0
Chemicals 
Value                      0         0     100          0        150       0       200      100          0          0          0     100          100       0        200            0
Irrigation costs           0        0        0          0      1500      500      4500        0      1350          0           0    1625        1625        0          0            0
Total LabourCmd/ba)      140         0     160        120        150     130       150      210       115         60          50      120         110      25        260            0
Price/md                  50       50       50         S0         50      50        S0       S0        S0         S0          S0       S0          S0      S0         50           50
Labour Costs            2100         0    2400       1800       2250    1950      2250    3150       1725        900         750    1800         1650     375       3900            0
Total Animal Days (a      38         0      42         43         45      40        45       45        40          14         20       22          22      10          60           0
Price/ad                  75       75       75         75         75      75        75       75        75         75          75       75          75      75          75          75
Animal Costs             855         0      945       968       1013     900      1013     1013        900       315         450      495         495     225        1350           0
Total Costs            4164         0    5039       3566       7550    4552    10164    5702        5902       2050        1400   16520         6665    1223       6909            0
Net Production Valu    4068          0   10696      11175       9503   10893      7468    6399       5998       4950        7600    6091        14035   1578       15592            0
l/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30* of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                        Table 13
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Buri Teesta
Without Project
B.       T.        T      T. Am      T. Am        B                           W           P     Oilse      Pota Vegetables       Ka      Tobacc  Groundnu
Output.                                                                                  HYV
Main Produce,
Yield(t/ha)              1.2         0     2.8       2.10        2.9       0       3.4      2.2          2          1        0.6     7.6            6   0.73            1           0
Price/t                 5260     5260    4820        5260       4820    5260      4820     3700      5700       7000      15000    3230         3450    4000       25000       13000
Value                   6312         0   13496      11046      13978       0    16388      8140     11400       7000        9000   24548        20700    2920      25000            0
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)              2.4         0      2.8       3.5          3       0         3      2.2          2          0          0        0           0       0           0           0
Price/t                  S100     SO0      S00        Soo        800     800       800     1800       250          0           0        0           0       0          0            0
Value                   1920         0    2240       2800       2400       0      2400    3960         500          0          0        0           0       0           0           0
Total Gross Value       8232         0   15736      13846      16378       0    18788   12100       11900       7000        9000   24548        20700    2920      25000            0
Inputs:
Seeds (kg/ha)            100         0       30        30         40       0        30        8         80        35          10    1120           10      15           1           0
Price/kg                 8.4       8.4    11.1        8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20         20        10         150       4         80           45
Value                    840         0      333       252        444        0      333      320        904        700        200   11200         1500      60          80           0
Urea(kg/ha)               25         0       80        30         75       0        90       30         60          0          0       60          80       0          60           0
Price/kg                 6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3     6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3         6.3        6.3     6.3          6.3     6.3        6.3          6.3
Value                 156.25         0      500     187.5        469        0      563      188        375          0          0      375         500       0         375           0
TSP(kg/ha)                10         0       60        20        100       0        75       45         60          0          0       50          50       0         45            0
Price/kg                 7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8       7.8         7.8     7.8        7.8          7.8
Value                     78         0      468       156        780        0      585      351        468          0          0      390         390       0         351           0



Page 2 of Table 13
HOP (kg/ha)                  0        0       10           0         60       0        60        30         20          0           0       30           30      40          60            0
Price/kg                    9         9        9          9          9        9         9         9          9          9           9        9            9       9           9            9
Value                        0        0       90           0       540        0       540       270        1S0          0           0      270          270     360         540            0
Manure(t/ha)              1.0       0.0      1.S         1.5       3.4      0.0       4.5       2.3        0.0        1.0        0.0         3            1     1.S         1.S          0.0
Price/t                   135       135      135        135        135      135       135       135       135         135        135       135         135      135         135          135
Value                     135         0   202.S       202.5        459        0    607.5    310.5            0        135           0      405          135   202.5       202.5            0
Chemicals.
Value                       0         0      100           0        100       0       200       100          0          0           0      100          100       0         200            0
Irrigation costs            0         0        0          0       1S00        0      4500         0      1350           0           0    1625         1625        0           0            0
Total Labour(md/ha)       140         0      1S0        135        1So        0       160       210        11S         60          S0      125          110      25         280            0
Price/md                   So        S0       S0         S0         S0       S0        S0        S0         S0         S0          S0       S0           S0      S0          S0           S0
Labour Costs             2100         0     2700       2025       2250        0      2400      31So      1725         900         750     1875        1650      375        4200            0
Total Animal 1ays(a         38        0       42         43          45        0        45       45         40         14          20       22           22      10          60             0
Price/ad                   75        75       75         75          75      75         75       75         75         7S          75       75           7S      75          75           75
Animal Costs              855         0      945         968      1013         0     1013      1013        900        315         4So      495          495     225        1350             0
Total Costs             4164         0     5339       3791       7554        0    10741       5702       5902       2050       1400   16735          6665    1223         7299            0
Net Production Valu    4068           0   10398       10056        8824        0      8048     6399       5998       4950        7600     7813        14035    1698       17702             0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                        Table 14
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Buri Teesta
With Project
B.       T.        T      T. Am      T. Am        8                           W           P     Oilse    Pota Vegetables         Ka      Tobacc  Groundnu
Output:                                                                                  HYV
Main Produce,
Yield(t/ha)                0         0        3      2.30       3.25       0       3.8      2.2          2          1        0.6     7.6            6   0.73          1.1           0
Price/t                 5260     5260    4820        5260       4820    5260      4820     3700      5700       7000      15000    3230          3450    4000      25000        13000
Value                      0         0   14460      12098      15665       0    18316      8140     11400       7000        9000   24548        20700    2920      27500            0
By-Products.
Yield(t/ha)                0         0        3       3.5       3.25       0       3.8      2.2          2          0          0        0           0       0           0           0
Price/t                  800      800      800        800        800     800       800     1800       250           0          0        0           0       0           0           0
Value                      0         0    2400       2800       2600       0      3040     3960        500          0          0        0           0       0           0           0
Total Gross Value          0         0   16860      14898      18265       0    21356   12100       11900       7000        9000   24548       20700    2920       27500            0
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)               0         0       30        30         40       0        30        8         80        35         10    1120            10      15           1           0
Price/kg                 8.4      8.4    11.1         8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20          20      10          150       4          80          45
Value                       0        0      333       252        444        0      333      320        904        700        200   11200         1500      60          80           0
Urea(kg/ha)                 0        0      100        40        100       0       100       30         60          0          0       60          80       0          70           0
Price/kg                 6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3     6.3       6.3      6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3      6.3         6.3     6.3        6.3          6.3
Value                       0        0      625       250        625        0      625      188        375          0          0     375          500       0        438            0
TSP(kg/ha)                  0        0       60        30        100        0       80       45         60          0          0       50          50       0          45           0
Price/kg                 7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8        7.8       7.8         7.8     7.8          7.8     7.8        7.8          7.8
Value                       0        0      468       234        780        0      624      351        468          0          0     390          390       0        35.1           0
MOP(kg/ha)                  0        0       10        10         60        0       60       30         20          0          0       30          30      40          60           0
Price/kg                   9         9        9         9          9       9         9        9          9          9          9        9           9       9           9           9
Value                       0        0       90         90       540        0      540      270        180          0          0     270          270     360         540           0



Page 2 of Table 14
Manure(t/ha)              0.0       0.0      1.5        1.5        3.5      0.0       4.5       2.3       0.0         1.0        0.0         4         1.5      1.5           2          0.0
Price/t                   135       135      135        135        135      135       135       135       135         135        135       135         135      135         135          135
value                        0        0   202.5       202.5      472.5        0    607.5    310.5            0        135           0      540       202.5   202.5          270            0
Chemicals.
Value                        0        0      100           0       150        0       200       100          0          0           0      100         100        0         200            0
Irrigation costs            0         0        0          0       1500        0      4500         0      1350           0          0    1625          1625        0           0            0
Total Labour(md/ha)          0        0      170        135        170        0       170       210       115          60         S0       125         110       25         300            0
Price/md                   50        50       50         50         50       50        50        50         50         so         so        50          50       so          50           50
Labour Costs                 0        0    2550        2025       2550        0      2550     3150       1725         900        750     1875         1650      375        4500            0
Total Animal Days(a          0        0       42         43          45       0        50        45        40          14         20        22           22      10          60            0
Price/ad                   75        75       75         75          75      75        75        75         75         75         75        75          75       75          75           75
Animal Costs                 0        0      945        968       1013        0      1125      1013        900        315        450       495         495      225        1350            0
Total Costs                 0        0    5314        4021       8074        0    11105      5702       5902        2050       1400   16870          6733    1223         7729            0
Net Production Valu          0        0   11547       10877      10191        0    10252       6399      5998        4950       7600      7678       13966    1698        19772            0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                      Table 15
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Chaptir Haor
Pre- Proj ect
B. A       T.        T      T. Am      T. AM        B                           W           P     Oilse    Pota       Oni      Chil      Tobacc  Groundnu
Output,                                                                                    HYV
Main Produce.
Yield(t/ha)                1.2         0        0      1.57          0    1.29      2.96        0      0.74           0          0    8.29    1.65       0.42           0           0
Price/t                   5260     5260    4820        5260       4820    5260      4820    3700       5700        7000     15000    3230    5500    15600         25000        13000
Value                     6312         0        0      8258          0   6785    14267           0     4218           0          0   26777    9076       6552           0           0
By-Products,
Yield(t/ha)                2.4         0        0         2          0       2      2.95        0          1          0          0        0        0        0           0           0
Price/t                    800      800       Boo       800        800     800       800    1800        250           0          0        0       0         0           0           0
Value                     1920         0        0      1600          0    1600      2360        0        250          0          0        0        0        0           0           0
Total Gross Value         8232         0        0      9858          a   8385    16627          0      4468           0          0   26777    9075       6552           0           0
Iputs .
Seede(kg/ha)                93         0        0        33          0      34        34                  99          0          0     994        3       o.5           0           0
Price/kg                   8.4       8.4    11.1        8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1       40      11.3          20         20      10      300       100         80           45
Value                    781.2         0        0     277.2          0  285.6    377.4          0   1118.7            0          0    9940      900        50           0           0
Urea(kg/ha)                   0        0        0        67          0      11        71        0          0          0          0        0       0        35           0           0
Price/kg                   6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3     6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3         6.3        6.3     6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3          6.3
Value                         0        0        0    418.75          0      69       444        0          0          0          0        0       0       219           0           0
TSP(kg/ha)                    0        0        0         0          0       0        18        0          0          0          0        0       0         0           0           0
Price/kg                   7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8         7.8        7.8     7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8          7.8
Value                         0        0        0         0          0       0       140         0         0          0          0        0       0         0           0           0
MOP (kg/ha)                   0        0        0         0          0       0         9        0          0          0          0        0       0         0           0           0
Price/kg                   9.0       9.0      9.0       9.0        9.0     9.0       9.0      9.0       9.0        9.0        9.0      9.0      9.0       9.0        9.0          9.0
Value                         0        0        0         0          0       0        81        0          0          0          0       0        0         0          0            0



Page 2 of Table 15
Manure(t/ha)                 0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0          0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0         0         0            0          0.0
Price/t                      135       135       135        135         135      135       135       135        135         135         135       135      135       135          135           135
Value                           0        0         0           0          0        0          0         0          0           0           0        0         0         0            0            0
chemicals
Value                           0        0         0           0          0      100       200          0          0           0           0        0         0         0            0            0
Irrigation costs               0         0         0          0           0      500      4500          0      1350           0           0    1625       1625      1625            0             0
Total Labour (md/ha)         111          0        0        134           0      119        135                   70           0           0      129        65        60            0            0
Price/md                      50        50        S0          0          50       50         s0        s0         50         50          50        so       50         50          50            50
Labour Costs                1665          0        0       2010           0    1785       2025          0      1050            0           0    1935       975        900            0            0
Total Animal Days(a           34          0        0          31          0       29         32                   20           0           0       22        22        22            0            0
Price/ad                      75        75        75          75         75       75         75        75         75         75          75        75        75        75          75            75
Animal Costs                 765          0        0         698           0     653        720         0        450           0           0      495      495        495            0            0
Total Costs                3211          0        0       3403           0    3392       8488          0      3969            0           0   13995    3995        3289             0            0
Met Production Valu         5021          0         0       6455           0    4994       8140         0        499           0           0   12782      5080       3263            0             0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                      Table 16
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Chaptir Haor
Without Project
B. A       T.        T      T. Am      T. Am        B                           W           P     Oilse    Pota       Oni      Chil      Tobacc  Groundnu
Output -                                                                                    YV
Main Produce,
Yield(t/ha)                1.5        1         2      1.83          0     1.3         3        0      1.84          0          0    8.29         0     0.57           0            0
Price/t                   5260     5260    4820        5260      4820    5260      4820      3700      5700       7000      15000    3230    3450    15600         25000       13000
Value                     7890     5260     9640       9626          0    6838    14460         0    10488           0           0   26777        0     8892           0            0
By-Products.
Yield(t/ha)               2.62      1.8        2          2          0    2.5          3        0         2          0          0        0        0         0          0            0
Price/t                    800      800      800        800       800      800       800     1800       250          0          0        0        0         0          0            0
Value                     2096     1440     1600       1600          a   2000       2400        0       s5o          0           0        0       0         0          0            0
Total Gross Value         9986     6700   11240       11226          0    8838    16860         0    10988           0          0   26777         0     8892           0            0
Inputs-
Seeds(kg/ha)                70       s0       40         40          0      30        40                 99          0          0      994        0         1          0            0
Price/kg                   8.4      8.4    11.1         8.4      11.1      8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20         20       10      150      100          80          45
Value                      588      420      444        336          0     252       444        0   1118.7           0          0    9940         0      100           0            0
Urea(kg/ha)                 s0       40       60         50          0      62        75                 60          0          0       45        0        60          0            0
Price/kg                   6.3      6.3      6.3        6.3        6.3     6.3       6 3      6.3       6.3        6 3        6.3      6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3         6.3
Value                    312.5      250       375     312.5          0    388        469        0       375          0          0      281        0      375           0            0
TSP(kg/ha)                   0         0        0         0          0      30        42                 20          0          0       30        0        60          0            0
Price/kg                   7.8      7.8       7.8       7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8      7.8      7.8      7.8         7.8         7.8
Value                        0         0        0         0          0     234       328        0       156           0          0     234        0       468           0           0
MOP (kg/ha)                  0         0        0         0          0       0        25                   0          0          0       0        0         0          0            0
Price/kg                     9         9        9         9          9       9         9        9         9          9          9        9        9         9          9            9
Value                        0         0        0         0          0       0       225        0          0          0          0        0       0         0           0           0



Page 2 of Table 16
manlure(t/hla)                0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0         0         0            0           0.0
price/t                       135       135       135        135         135      135        135       135         135         135         135       135      135        135          135          135
Value                           0         0         0           0           0        0          0         0          000                               0         0000
Chemicals.
value                           0         0         0           0           0        0       200          0          0           0           0         0         0         0            0             0
Irrigation costs                0         0         0           0           0     500       4500          0      1350            0           0     1625          0      1625            0             0
Total Labouir(rfdlha)         111       100       130         134           0     140        160                    82           0           0       129         0        65            0             0
Price/md                       50        50        50          50         50       50         50        50          50          50          50        50        50        50           50            50
Labour Costs                 1665      1500      1950       2010            0    2100       2400          0      1230            0           0      1935         0       975            0             0
Total Animal Days(a            20        25        30          30           0       22         24                   25           0           0        22         0        22            0             0
Price/ad                       75        75        75          75         75        75        75        75          75          75          75        75        75        75           75            75
Animal Costs                  450       563       675         675           0     495        540          0        530                        0      495         0       495            0             0
Total Costs                3016       2733      3444       3334            0    3969       9105          0      4792            0           0   14510           0      4038            0             0
Net Production Valu          6971      3968      7796       7892            0    4870       7755          0      6196            0            0   12266          0      4854            0             0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems RehabilitatiOn Project                                                                       Table 17
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
Chaptir Haor
With Project
S. A       T.        T      T. Am      T. Am        B                           W           P     Oilse    Pota         On      Chil     Tobacc  Groundnu
output.                                                                                    HYV
Main Produce.
Yieldft/ha)                1.5        1        2       1.83          0     1.5         3        0      1.84          0           0    8.29         0      0.6           0            0
Price/t                   5260     5260    4820        5260      4820    5260       4820     3700      5700       7000      15000    3230       3450    15600       25000       13000
Value                     7890     5260     9640       9626          0   7890    14460          0    10488           0           0   26777         0     9360           0            0
By-Products.
Yield(t/ha)               2.62      1.8         2         2          0     2.5         3        0         2          0           0        0        0         0          0            0
Price/t                    800      Boo      800        800        800     800       Boo     1800       250          0           0       0         0         0          0            0
Value                     2096     1440     1600       1600          0   2000       2400        0       500          0           0        0        0         0          0            0
Total Gross Value         9986     6700   11240       11226          0   9890    16860          0    10988           0           0   26777         0     9360           0            0
Inputs.
Seeds(kg/ha)                70       50       40         40          0      30        40                 99          0           0     994         0         1          0            0
Price/kg                   8.4      8.4    11.1         8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20         20       10       150      100          80          45
Value                      588      420      444        336          0    252        444        0   1118.7           0           0    9940         0      100           0            0
Urea(kg/ha)                 50       40        60        50          0      62        75                 60          0           0      45         0        60          0            0
Price/kg                   6.3      6.3      6.3        6.3        6.3     6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3        6.3      6.3       6.3      6.3         6.3         6.3
Value                    312.5      250       375     312.5          0    388        469        0       375          0           0     281         0      375           0            0
TSP(kg/ha)                   0         0        0         0          0      30        42                 20          0           0      30         0        60          0            0
Price/kg                   7.8      7.8      7.8        7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8      7.8       7.8      7.8         7.8         7.8
Value                        0         0        0         0          0    234        328        0       156          0           0     234         0      468           0            0
MOP(kg/ha)                   0         0        0         0          0       0        25                   0          0          0        0        0         0          0            0
Price/kg                     9        9         9         9          9       9         9        9         9          9          9        9         9        9           9           9
Value                        0         0        0         0          0       0       225        0          0          0          0        0        0         0          0            0



Page 2 of Table 17
Manure(t/ha)                 0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0                 0.0         0.0         0.0         0          0         0            0          0.0
Price/t                      135       135       135        135         135      135       135       135        135         135         135       135       135       135          135          135
Value                           0        0         0           0          0        0          0         0          0          0            0        0          0         0            0            0
Chemicals:
Value                           0        0         0           0          0        0       200          0          0           0           0        0          0         0            0            0
irrigation costs               0         0         0          0           0      S00      4500         0       1350           0           0     162S          0      1625            0             0
Total Labour (md/ha)         111       100       130        134           0      140       160                    82           0           0      129          0        65            0            0
Price/md                      50        50        50         50          50       50         so       50         s0          s0          50        50        50         50          S0            S0
Labour Costs                1665      1500      1950       2010           0    2100       2400          0      1230            0           0     1935          0       975            0            0
Total Animal Days(a           20        25        30         30           0       22         24                   25           0           0       22          0        22            0            0
Price/ad                      75        75        75         75          75       75         75       75          75         75          75        75        75         75          75
Animal Costs                 450       563       675        675           0      495        540         0       563            0           0      495          0       495            0            0
Total Costs                3016      2733      3444       3334           0    3969       9105         0       4792           0           0   14510            0     4038            0             0
Net Production Valu         6971      3968      7796       7892           0    5922       7755          0      6196            0           0   12266           0     5322             0            0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                          Table 18
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
KIP
Pre-Proj ect
B.       T.        T      T. Am      T. Am        B                           W           P     Oilse    Pota Vegetables         Chil Sugarcane    Groundnu
Output:                                                                                  HltV
Main Produce,
Yield(t/ha)                0         0    2.83       2.20       3.06    2.48      4.06        0          0          1          0    9.14            6     1.19            0           0
Price/t                 5260     5260    4820        5260       4820    5260      4820     3700      5700       7000      15000    3230          3450    15600       25000        13000
Value                       0        0   13641      11572      14749   13045    19569          0         0       7000          0   29522        20700    18564            0           0
By-Products,
Yield(t/ha)                 0        0    2.83          4       3.06     4.4      4.06         0         0          0          0        0           0         0           0           0
Price/t                  800       800      800       800        800     800       800    1800        250           0          0        0           0         0           0           0
Value                       0        0    2264       3200       2448    3520      3248         0         0          0          0        0           0         0           0           0
Total Gross Value           0        0   15905      14772      17197   16565    22817          0         0       7000          0   29522       20700    18564             0           0
Inputs .
Seeds(kg/ha)                0        0       40        35         36      45        30        0          0         36          0      617         0.5        1           0            0
Price/kg                 8.4       8.4    11.1        8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1       40      11.3          20         20       10         150      100          80           45
Value                       0        0      444       294      399.6     378       333         0         0        720          0    6170           75      100            0           0
Urea(kg/ha)                 0        0       80         80       120      80        75         0         0          0          0      250           0        60           0           0
Price/kg                 6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3     6.3       6.3      6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3      6.3         6.3      6.3         6.3          6.3
Value                       0        0      soo       soo        750     500       469         0         0          0          0    1563            0      375            0           0
TSP(kg/ha)                  0        0       40         50        60      40       200         0         0          0          0      250          60        80           0           0
Price/kg                 7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8        7.8        7.8        7.8      7.8         7.8      7.8         7.8          7.8
Value                       0        0      312       390        468     312      1560         0         0          0          0    1950          468      624            0           0
MOP(kg/ha)                  0        0       30          0        40        0      120                   0          0          0      100          60         0           0           0
Price/kg                    9        9        9          9         9        9         9        9         9          9          9        9           9         9           9           9
Value                       0        0      270          0       360        0     1080         0         0          0          0      900         540         0           0           0



Page 2 of Table 18
Manure(t/ha)               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0        6.0                  0.0        0.0         0.0         0            4          0            0          0.0
price/t                    135       135       135        135         135      135       135       135        135         135         135       135          135       135          135           135
Value                         0         0        0           0          0        0        810         0          0           0           0        0          540          0            0            0
Chemicals:
Value                         0        0       150           0        100        0        170         0          0           0           0      400          100          0            0            0
Irrigation costs             0         0         0          0       1500       500      4500          0          0          0           0      1625         1625      1625             0            0
Total Labour(md/ha)           0         0      102        101         100      110        124         0          0         48            0      130          130         88            0            0
Price/md                    so        so        50         50          50       50         50       50          50         so          s0        50           s0         50          50            50
Labour Costs                  0        0      1530       1515        1500    1650       1860          0          0        720            0     1950         1950      1320             0            0
Total Animal Days(a           0        0        25         25          25       25         25         0          0         10            0       22           22         22            0            0
Price/ad                    75        75        75         75          75       75         75        75         75         75          75        75           75        75            75           75
Animal Costs                  0         0      563        563         563      563        563         0          0        225            0      495          495       495             0            0
Total Costs                 0         0      3769       3262        5640    3903      11344          0          0       1665            0   15053          5793      4539             0            0
Net Production Valu           0        0    12136       11511      11557   12662       11473          0          0       5335            0   14470         14907    14025              0            0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                            Table 19
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
KIP
Without Project
B.       T.         T      T. Am     T. Am        B                             W          P      oilse     Pota Vegetables        Chil Sugarcane    Groundnu
Output:                                                                                    HYV
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)                 0        0    2.83        2.10        2.9        0     3.98         0          0        1.1       0.91     9.14            6     1.21            0           0
Price/t                  5260     5260     4820       5260       4820    5260      4820      3700      5700       7000       15000    3230         3450    15600        25000        13000
Value                       0         0   13641      11046      13978        0    19184         0          0       7700      13650   29522        20700    18876             0            0
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)                 0         0    2.83        4.2       3.25        0         4        0          0          0          0        0            0        0            0           0
Price/t                   800      800      800        800        800     800       800      1800       250           0          0        0            0        0            0           0
Value                       0         0    2264       3360       2600        0      3200        0          0          0          0        0            0        0            0           0
Total Gross Value           0         0   15905      14406      16578        0    22384         0          0       7700      13650   29522        20700    18876             0           0
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)                0         0       40        35         30        0        30        0          0         36          9      617         0.5         1            0           0
Price/kg                  8.4      8.4     11.1        8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1        40      11.3          20         20       10         150       100           80          45
Value                       0         0      444        294       333        0       333        0          0        720        180    6170            75      100            0           0
Urea(kg/ha)                 0         0       80         80       120        0       200        0          0          0         10      250           60       60            0           0
Price/kg                  6.3      6.3       6.3       6.3        6.3      6.3       6.3      6.3        6.3        6.3        6.3      6.3         6.3       6.3         6.3          6.3
Value                       0         0      500       500        750        0      1250        0          0          0         63    1563           375      375            0           0
TSP(kg/ha)                  0         0       40         50         60       0       120        0          0          0         33      250           60      100            0           0
Price/kg                  7.8      7.8       7.8       7.8        7.8      7.8       7.8      7.8        7.8        7.8        7.8      7.8         7.8       7.8         7.8          7.8
Value                       0         0      312        390       468        0       936        0          0          0        257    1950           468      780            0            0
MOP(kg/ha)                  0         0       30          0        40        0        60        0          0          0         10      100           40        0            0           0
Price/kg                    9         9        9          9         9        9         9        9          9          9          9        9            9        9            9           9
Value                       0         0      270          0       360        0       540        0          0          0         90      900          360        0            0           0



Page 2 of Table 19
Manure(t/ha)               0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0                 0.0         0.0         0.0         0            0          0            0          0.0
Price/t                    135       135       135        135         135      135       135       135        135         135         135       135          135       135          135           135
Value                         0         0        0           0          0        0          0         0          0           0           0        0            0          0            0            0
Chemicals:
Value                         0        0       1S0           0        100        0        170         0          0           0           0      400          100          0            0            0
Irrigation costs             0         0         0          0           0        0      4500          0          0          0           0      1625        1625       1625            0             0
Total Labour(md/ha)           0        0       102        101         103        0       124          0          0         so          65       130          130        90             0            0
Price/md                    so        50        so         S0          S0       50         S0       50          S0         S0          S0        S0           so        S0           50            50
Labour Costs                 0         0      1530       1S5S        1545        0      1860          0          0        750         975      1950         1950      1350             0            0
Total Animal Days(a           0        0        25         25          25        0         25         0          0         10          20        22           22        22             0            0
Price/ad                    75        75        75         75          75       75         75       75          75         75          75        75           75        75           75            75
Animal Costs                  0        0       563        563         563        0        563         0          0        225         450       495          495       495             0            0
Total Costs                 0         0     3769        3262       4119         0     10152          0          0       1695        2015    15053          5448      4725             0            0
Net Production Valu           0         0    12136      11145       12460        0    12232           0          0       6005       11635    14470         15252    14151              0            0
l/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                          Table 20
Implementation Completion Report
Per Ha Financial Crop Budget
KIP
With Project
B.       T.        T      T. Am      T. Am        B                           W           P     Oilse    Pota Vegetables        Chil Sugarcane    Groundnu
Output:                                                                                  HYV
Main Produce:
Yield(t/ha)                0         0    2.83       2.30       3.25       0         4        0          0       1.1       0.95    9.14             6     1.21           0            0
Price/t                 5260     5260    4820        5260       4820    5260      4820    3700       5700       7000      15000    3230         3450    15600        25000       13000
Value                      0         0   13641      12098      15665       0    19280         0          0      7700      14250   29522        20700    18876            0            0
By-Products:
Yield(t/ha)                 0        0    2.83        4.6       3.25       0         4        0          0          0          0        0           0        0           0            0
Price/t                  800      800       800       800        800     800       800     1800       250           0          0        0           0        0           0            0
Value                       0        0    2264       3680       2600       0      3200        0          0          0          0        0           0         0          0            0
Total Gross Value           0        0   15905      15778      18265       0    22480         0          0      7700      14250   29522         20700    18876           0            0
Inputs:
Seeds(kg/ha)               0         0       40        35         36       0        30        0          0        36           9     617          0.5        1           0            0
Price/kg                 8.4       8.4    11.1        8.4       11.1     8.4      11.1       40      11.3         20          20      10          150      100          80           45
Value                       0        0      444       294      399.6       0       333        0          0        720        180    6170           75      100           0            0
Urea(kg/ha)                 0        0       60        60        120       0       200        0          0          0         10     250           60       60           0            0
Price/kg                 6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3        6.3     6.3       6.3      6.3       6.3         6.3       6.3       6.3         6.3      6.3         6.3          6.3
Value                       0        0      375       375        750       0      1250        0          0          0         63    1563          375      375           0            0
TSP(kg/ha)                  0        0       40        50         60       0       120        0          0          0         30     250           60      100           0            0
Price/kg                 7.8      7.8       7.8       7.8        7.8     7.8       7.8      7.8       7.8        7.8        7.8      7.8         7.8       7.8         7.8         7.8
Value                       0        0      312       390        468       0       936        0          0          0       234    1950           468      780           0            0
MOP(kg/ha)                  0        0       30         0         40       0        60        0          0          0         10     100           40        0           0            0
Price/kg                   9         9        9         9          9       9         9        9          9         9           9       9            9        9           9            9
Value                       0        0      270         0        360       0       540        0          0          0         90     900         360         0           0            0



Page 2 of Table 20
Manure(t/ha)                 0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0                   0.0         0.0          0.0         0             0          0            0           0.0
Price/t                     135        135       135         135         135      135        135       135         135         135          135       135          135        135           135           135
Value                          0         0         0           0           0         0          0         0           0           0           0         0             0          0            0             0
Chemicals:
Value                          0         0       150           0         100         0       170          0           0           0           0       400           100          0            0             0
Irrigation costs               0         0         0           0       1500         0       4500          0          0            0           0     1625          1625       1625             0             0
103
Total Labour(md/ha)            0         0       102         101           0         0       124          0           0          50          70       130           130         90            0             0
Price/md                      so        50        50          50          50       50         s0         50         50          50           50        50            50        50            s0            so
Labour Costs                   0         0      1530        1515           0         0      1860          0           0        750         1050      1950         1950       1350             0             0
Total Animal Days(a            0         0        25          25          25         0        25          0           0          10          20        22            22         22            0             0
Price/ad                      75        75        75          75          75       75         75         75         75           75          75        75            75         75           75            75
Animal Costs                   0         0       563         563         563         0       563          0           0        225          450       495           495       495             0             0
Total Costs                   0         0      3644        3137        4140         0     10152          0           0       1695         2067    15053          5448       4725             0             0
Net Production Valu            0         0    12261        12642       14125         0     12329          0           0       6005        12184    14470         15252      14151             0              0
1/Assuming hired labour and draft power at 30% of total.



Bangladesh
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                       Table 21
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures-Polder 55/1 Subproject
(Tk Million )
F         F         F          F         F          F         F       FY98    Total
Rehabilitation works:
Land acquisition                   0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.80      4.00       0.00       0.00      4.80
Survey & investigation             0.00       0.00      0.13      0.20       0.00      0.10       0.00       0.00      0.43
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.          1.61       5.89      5.78     21.02       1.95     11.07      11.24     21.88      80.44
On-farm Development                0.00       0.00      1.14      2.09       0.00       0.29      0.15       0.32      3.99
O&M during construction            0.00       0.00      0.00      2.40       0.71       7.50      1.71       5.17     17.49
Eng. & Admin                       0.11       0.41      0.43       1.68      0.24      1.61       1.01       2.00      7.49
Total                              1.72       6.30      7.48     27.39       3.70     24.57      14.11     29.37    114.64
a/ Upto End December 1997.
Expenditures-Beel Singri Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F         F          F         F          F         F       FY98    Total
Rehabilitation works:
Land acquisition                   0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.93      0.00       0.00      0.93
Survey & investigation             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.03       0.03      0.00       0.06
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.          0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.22      3.90       2.83      6.28      13.23
On-farm Development                0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
O&M during construction            0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.03      0.05       0.10      0.18
Eng. & Admin                       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.02      0.35       0.20      0.45       1.02
Total                              0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.24       5.24      3.11      6.83      15.42
a/ Upto End December 1997.
Source: Actual expenditures for FY91-FY96 are taken from the revised work plans, prepared by CE of SRP (August 1996),
the revised Project Proposal (PP) January 1997.



Bangladesh
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project              Table 22
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures-Buri Teesta Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F          F          F         F          F          F      FY98   Total
Land acquisition                    0.00       0.00      0.66       0.66       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       1.32
Survey & investigation              0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.03       0.03       0.00       0.06
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.           3.13      4.45       4.17       1.23      2.29       7.42       1.60       2.01     26.30
On-farm development                 0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       2.47       3.17       5.64
O&M during construction             0.00       0.00      1.18       0.65       0.47      0.62       0.76       0.96       4.64
Eng. & Admin                        0.22       0.31      0.42       0.18      0.19       0.56       0.34       0.43       2.65
Total                               3.35      4.76       6.43       2.72      2.95       8.63       5.20       6.57     40.61
a/ Upto end December 1997.
Expenditures-Chaptia Haor Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F          F          F         F          F          F     FY98      Total
Land acquisition                    0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.15       0.00       0.00       0.15
Survey & investigation              0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.03       0.03       0.00       0.06
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.           0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.51       4.12      13.17      17.04     34.84
On-farm Development                 0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
O&M during construction             0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       1.94       2.56      4.50
Eng. & Admin                        0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.04       0.31       1.06       1.37      2.78
Total                               0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.55       4.61      16.20      20.97     42.33
Expenditures-Dardaria Khal Subproject
Land acquisition                    0.00       0.17      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.17
Survey & investigation              0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.03       0.03       0.00      0.06
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.           0.00       5.93      5.88       5.80      0.06       0.00       0.00       0.00     17.67
On-farm Development                 0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
O&M during construction             0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      1.01       3.77       1.53       0.36      6.67
Eng. & Admin                        0.00       0.46      0.44       0.44       0.08      0.30       0.00       0.00       1.72
Total                               0.00       6.56      6.32       6.24      1.15       4.10       1.56       0.36     26.29
a/ Upto end December 1997.
Source: Actual expenditures for FY91-FY96 are taken from the revised work plans, prepared by CE of SRP (August 1996),
while FY97-FY98 are from the revised Project Proposal (PP) January 1997.



Bangladesh
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation project                        Table 23
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures-Karnafuli Irrigation Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F          F         F          F         F          F          F   Total
Land acquisition                   0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Survey & investigation             0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.08      0.50       0.00       0.00      0.58
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.11       2.41     14.58      12.86      37.57     67.53
On-farm development                 0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Eng. & Admin                       0.10       0.21       0.82      1.60       0.40      1.42       1.22       4.76     10.53
Subtotal                           0.10       0.21       0.82      1.71       2.89     16.50      14.08     42.33      78.64
Improved O&M                       1.36       3.00     11.70      16.50       3.15      2.28       9.00     35.09      82.08
Total                             1.46       3.21     12.52      18.21       6.04     18.78      23.08     77.42    160.72
Expenditures-Chandpur Irrigation Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F          F         F          F         F          F          F   Total
Land acquisition                    0.00      9.08       0.17      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      9.25
Survey & investigation              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.92      0.40       0.02       0.00      1.34
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.           0.00     27.87       0.20      3.05      11.39     14.23      31.81       6.23     94.78
On-farm development                 0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
Eng. & Admin                        0.51      3.23       0.67      1.43       1.98      2.33       5.73       1.12     17.00
Subtotal                            0.51     40.18       1.04      4.48      14.29     16.96      37.56       7.35    122.37
Improved O&M                        7.22      9.17       9.21     17.41      16.00     18.67      49.99       9.78    137.45
Total                              7.73     49.35      10.25     21.89      30.29     35.63      87.55     17.13    259.82



Page 2 of Table 23
Expenditures-Muhuri Irrigation Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F         F        F          F        F          F         F  Total
Land acquisition                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.80      0.00      0.00       1.80
Survey & investigation           0.00      0.00      0.00      0,00      1.70      0.20      0.00      0.00      1.90
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     20.60     22.26     32.55      7.74     83.15
On-farm development              0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Eng. & Admin                     0.48      0.32      1.72      1.82      2.25      1.81      3.42      0.81     12.63
Subtotal                         0.48      0.32      1.72      1.82     24.55     26.07     35.97      8.55     99.48
Improved O&M                     6.87      4.53    24.54      26.05      9.87      1.52     16.67      3.96     94.01
Total                           7.35      4.85     26.26     27.87     34.42     27.59     52.64     12.51    193.49



Bangladesh
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation project                       Table 24
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures-Sangu River Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F         F          F         F         F          F         F    Total
Land acquisition                   0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Survey & investigation             0.12      0.12       0.12      0.13      0.13       0.13      0.00       0.00      0.75
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.          4.32      9.68     11.23       2.25      0.00       0.00      1.33       0.00     28.81
O&M during construction            0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.40      2.60       0.00      3.00
Eng. & Admin                       0.36      0.74       0.88      0.17      0.00       0.04      0.09       0.00      2.28
Total                              4.80     10.54     12.23       2.55      0.13       0.57      4.02       0.00     34.84
Expenditures-Kushiyara River Subproject
(Tk Million)
F         F         F          F         F         F          F         F    Total
Land acquisition                   0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Survey & investigation             0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.03      0.02       0.00      0.05
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.          1.46     27.25       1.54     17.30      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00     47.55
O&M during construction            0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.03       1.24      3.31       3.01      8.59
Eng. & Admin                       0.10      1.91       0.11      1.21      0.07       0.09      0.23       0.21      3.93
Total                              1.56     29.16       1.65     18.51      1.10       1.36      3.56       3.22     60.12



Bangladesh
Systems Rehabilitation Project                                   Table 25
Implementation Completion Report
Expenditures-Total Project
(Tk Million)
FY9          FY9            FY93          FY9            P          F          F           FY             Total
Land acquisition                      0.00         12.20          3.56         12.80        9.48      11.68       10.40         0.00           60.12
Survey & investigation                0.00          0.00          0.13           0.44       3.46       2.46        0.61        0.00             7.10
Civil works-Rehab & Impr.           24.57         126.97         90.32        143.56      188.08    219.00    477.28          90.84          1360.62
on-farm development                   0.00          0.00          1.14           2.09       0.00        0.26       5.13         1.00             9.62
O&M during construction             19.45          22.62         55.86          67.58      36.32      67.81    214.65             42          526.29
Eng. & Admin                          9.94         18.19         17.43         22.61       23.45      27.84       58.35       28.53           206.34
Subtotal                            53.96        179.98         168.44        249.08      260.79    329.05    766.42         162.37          2170.09
Training & staff dev.                 4.59          4.59          4.59           4.59       4.59        4.59      39.48         8.49           75.51
Technical assistance               102.01         102.01        102.01        102.01      102.01    102.01        75.58        97.27          784.91
Equipment & vehicle                 13.50          13.50         13.50          13.50      13.50      13.50       64.87         0.00          145.87
Miscellenous                          2.12          2.12          2.12           2.12       2.12        2.12       2.12         2.12           16.96
Total                              176.18         302.20        290.66        371.30      383.01    451.27    948.47         270.25          3193.34
Source: Actual expenditures for FY91-FY96 are taken from the revised work plans prepared by CE of SRP
(August 1996), while FY97-FY98 are from the revised Project Proposal (PP) January 1997.



BANGLADESH
Systems Rehabilitation Project
Implementation Completion Report
Estimated and Actual O&M Costs                Table 26
Coast                    H    Irriga          Total/
Polders                                   Avera
1997 Constant Prices:
Required O&M Costs 1/
Establishment & Facilties         17.96      21.34     15.77       9.74     64.82
Preventive Maintenance            11.63       3.10      3.36      10.48     28.56
Periodic Maintenance              51.39      11.37     16.35      20.35     99.46
Emergency Maintenance               1.89      2.23       1.47      2.78       8.37
BWDB Overhead                       1.82      0.90       0.86      0.86       4.44
Total Tk million                  84.69      38.94     37.81      44.21    205.65
No Subprojects                        12        11          7         5         35
Net Cultivable Area (ha) 2/       56277      78927      51304     66660    253168
Tk/ha                               1505       493        737       663        812
(% of average)                      185%        61%       91%        82%
Actual 1990 O&M Exp. (Tk Million) 3/                                        1373.1
Tk/ha 4/                             725       239        357       321        392
1/ Estimates for 35 subprojects implemented under SRP, Mid-Term Review Report, Sir William Halcrow & Partne
Volume 2, Table 7.1, April 1995.
2/ Estimated NCA in 1995.
3/ Actual O&M expenditures (Tk 1040.2 million) for all BWDB's completed subprojects, adjusted to 1997 price
4/ Cost/ha for coastal polder, FCD, haor and irrigation is based on the estimates of the required O&M level



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                                                                        Table 27
Implementation Completion Report
Summary of Financial and Economic Prices
Finan       Economicl/2/                  Inputs  (Tk/kg):                      Fin Economicl/2/
Outputs  (Tk/                                                                     Seeds:
Paddy-LV                                    5.26            8.66                   Paddy-lV                              8.40          10.80
Paddy-HYV                                   4.82            8.66                   Paddy-HYV                            11.10          10.80
Wheat                                       5.70            9.41                   Wheat                                11.30          11.76
Jute                                        3.70            9.53                   Jute                                 40.00          36.00
pulses                                      7.00            6.30                   Pulses                               20.00          18.00
Oilseeds                                   15.00           13.74                   Oilsedds                             20.00          18.00
Vegetables                                  3.45             3.11                  Vegetables                          150.00         135.00
Potatoes                                    3.23            2.91                   Potato                               10.00           9.00
Sugarcane                                   1.19            1.42                   Sugarcane                             3.70           3.33
Groundnut                                  13.00           11.90                   groundnut                            45.00          41.20
Chillies                                   15.60           14.00                   Chillies                            100.00          90.00
Tobacco                                    25.00           22.60                   Tobacco                              80.00          72.00
Fruits                                      4.00            3.60                   Fruits                               65.00          58.50
Kaon                                                                               Kaon                                  4.00           3.60
By-Products:
Paddy                                       0.80            0.72                   Fertilizers:
Wheat                                       0.25             0.23                  Urea                                  5.06           6.25
Jute                                        1.80             1.62                  TSP                                   7.80          10.67
MOP                                   9.00          9.46
FYM                                 0.135          0.122
Unskilled Labour (Tk/md)             50.00         45.00
Bullock (Tk/pair day)                75.00         67.50
Irrigation (Tk/ha):
T. Aman                               1500          1350
Boro-HYV                             4500           4050
Boro-Lv                                500           450
Wheat                                 1350          1215
Potatoes                             1625           1463
1/ Average projected 2000-2005 World prices in 1995 constant value.
Economic prices of traded commoddities are shown in Table 28. Seed costs for traded crops
have been estimated as the farmgate prices of the crops plus a premium of 25% to allow for the
costs of storage, wastage and transport.
2/ Non-traded commoddities were adjusted by SCF of 0.90



Table 28
BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 2099-BD
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Price Deviation
Paddy     Paddy      Wheat   Soyabean       Sugar    Jute       Urea      TSP         MP
X          M         M          M           M         X        X          M          M
Average 2000-2005 Projected World Price (US$/t)11             299        299        142         257       240      316        152        132        104
Quality Factor                                                0.80      0.80       0.90         1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00        1.00      1.00
Adjusted cif/fob Prices                                       239        239        128         257       240      316        152        132        104
Freight & Insurance 2/                                          0         41         77          72       77                              72         72
Value of cif entry port/fob exit port (US$/t)                 239        280        205         329       317      316        152        204        176
Value of eif entry port/fob exit port (Tk/t)3/              10405      12189       8909       14312    13790    13746        6612       8874       7656
Port and Handling Charges 4/                                 1305       1305       1305        1305     1305      1305       1305       1305       1305
HandlinglTransport/ Storage 5/                                373        373        373         373      373       373        373        373        373
Value ex-store/market                                        8727      13867      10587       15990    15468    12068        4934      10552       9334
Processing costs                                              349        349
Processing ratio                                              0.65      0.65       0.90                  0.10      0.80
Handling/Transport Charges 6/                                 122        122        122         122       122      122        122        122        122
Economic Farmgate Price(TK/t)                                5324       8665       9406       13745     1425      9532       5056      10674       9456
Economic Farmgate Price(TK/kg)                                5.32      8.66       9.41       13.74      1.42     9.53       5.06      10.67       9.46
M-lmport; X-Export
1/ World Bank's Commodity Price Forecasts, May 1997. Average projected 2000-2005 world prices, adjusted to 1997 constant value.
Rice: Thai, milled, 5% broken, FOB Bangkok; Wheat: Canadian No.1 Western Redspring, Thunder Bay; Soybeans:
US, CIF, Rotterdam. Soybeans and mustard/linseed are assumed to be equal value; Sugar: FOB and stowed at Greater Carribean port;
Jute: white D, Bangladesh, FOB Chalna; Urea: FOB Chittagong/Chalna; TSP: FOB US Gulf; MP: FOB US Gulf.
2/ Between Chittagong/Chalna and source of destination.
3/ US$1.0=Tk 43.5.
4/ Average Tk 1,450 converted to border price by SCF of 0.90.
5! Average 300 km @ Tk 1.38/tNkm converted to border prices by SCF of 0.90.
6/ Average 15 km @ Tk 9/t/km converted to border price by SCF of 0.90.



BANGLADESH
Systems Rehabilitation Project                              Table 29
Implementation Completion Report
List of Subprojects
Completion Year & Net Cultivable Area
Gross                                                                              Famili Population
Command
(ha)
PCD Subprojects (Non-Tidal):
1. Dardaria Khal                                    6220                             4330                                      4330      4884      29309
2. Gangni                                           3885                             2914                                      2914      4484      26900
3. Morichar Danra                                  17001                                                             7760      7760      6137      37061
4. Dewankhali Xhal                                  7996                                       2301                            2301    21671    112190
5. Hizla Embankment                                 4255                                                             1460      1460      3297      17214
6. Kanchikata Khal                                  3940                             1756                                      1756      9929      54063
7. Kumarnai Bundh                                   2765                                                             2325      2325    11222       22903
8. Ichamati Gazaria                                29756                                                            25293    25293    60227    331250
9. Beel Singri                                     13543                                                            10822    10822       6005      51379
10. Chorai Somespur                                 9844                                       8766                            8786      8759      51175
11. Bhitabari Damosh                               12960                                      11180                           11180      8384      45153
Subtotal                                          112165          0          0       9000     22267           0     47660    78927   144999    778597
Coastal Polder Subproject (Tidal)i
1. Polder 55/1                                     10800                                                             7776      7776    11219       67312
2. Polder 64/lA                                     5750                                                             4300      4300      8066      48400
3. Polder 64/lB                                     7740                                        5670                           5670    21667    130000
4. Polder 39/1B&D                                  14557                                                            11920    11920    40750    244500
5. Polder 67                                        1700                                                             1500      1500      5368      32210
6. Polder 58/3                                      1308                                                             1060      1060      1481       8378
7. Polder 68                                        3733                                                             2000      2000      2761      17624
8. Polder 66/2                                      2621                                                             1500      1500      3329      11627
9. Polder 66/3                                      4832                                                             2419      2419      7428       4928
10. Polder 61/1                                      8769                                                            7015      7015    15002       85855
11. Polder 64/1C                                    2051                                                             1640      1640      3067      19789
12. Polder 73/2                                    11239                                                             9477      9477    10236       64166
Subtotal                                           75100           0                    0       5670          0     50607    56277   130374    734789



Page 2 of Table 29
Haor/Beel subproject
1. Pagner Haor                                       19075                                       17167                            17167       8455      50730
2. Padma Haor                                         5050                                                               2003      2003       7978      45563
3. Dhankunia Haor                                     1692                                                               1351      1351        750       4500
4. Shanir Haor                                        7761                                                               6721      6721       3354      22010
5. Chaptir Haor                                       5061                                                               4125      4125       3525      22477
6. Makla Beel                                        19650                                                              15366     15366      24628     134725
7. Chandra Sonarthal                                  5714                                                               4571      4571       1734      10073
Subtotal                                             64003           0          0          0      17167          0      34137     51304      50424    290078
Irrigation Subproject:
1. Buri Teesta                                        3158                                                               2232      2232       5425      29840
2. Protappur                                          5200       4000                                                              4000       5400      29710
3. KIP                                                4049                                                               3238      3238       6770      37235
4. MIP                                               40510                                                              28000     28000      50820    279520
5. CIP                                               53036                                                              29190     29190      66535    365948
Subtotal                                            105953       4000           0          0          0          0      62660     66660   134950       742253
Total (35) a/                                       357221       4000           0       9000      45104          0    195064   253168   460747   2545717
a/ Excluding Kushiyara and Sangu river protection, and Chaptai Nawabganj O&M subdivision.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 30
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Polder 55/1 Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                              Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        1.92          0.00       1.92       0.00       0.00      0.00      -1.92
year 2               6.76          0.00       6.76       0.00       0.00      0.00      -6.76
year 3               7.70          0.00       7.70       0.00       0.00      0.00      -7.70
year 4              27.00          0.00      27.00       0.00       0.00      0.00    -27.00
year 5               2.70          0.00       2.70       0.00       0.00      0.00      -2.70
year 6              18.46          0.00      18.46       0.00       0.00      0.00    -18.46
year 7              12.41          0.00      12.41       0.00       0.00      0.00    -12.41
year 8              21.30          5.34      26.64      97.98     97.98       0.00    -26.64
year 9                             5.34       5.34    105.21    116.10       10.89       5.55
year 10                            5.34       5.34    112.52    134.29       21.77      16.43
year 11                            5.34       5.34    119.83    152.41       32.58      27.24
year 12                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 13                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 14                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 15                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 16                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 17                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 18                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 19                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 20                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 21                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 22                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 23                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 24                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
year 25                            5.34       5.34    127.14    170.59       43.45      38.11
#NUM!                            30.74  Tk. Milli



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 31
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Beel Singri Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                              Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 2               0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 3               0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 4               0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 5               0.22          0.00       0.22      0.00       0.00       0.00     -0.22
year 6               3.87          0.00       3.87      0.00       0.00       0.00     -3.87
year 7               2.73          0.00      2.73       0.00       0.00       0.00     -2.73
year 8               5.92          2.42       8.34    172.85    172.85        0.00     -8.34
year 9                             2.42      2.42    182.24    199.31       17.07      14.65
year 10                            2.42      2.42    191.66    225.78       34.12      31.70
year 11                            2.42       2.42    201.07    252.24      51.17      48.75
year 12                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 13                            2.42      2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 14                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 15                            2.42      2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 16                            2.42      2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 17                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 18                            2.42      2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 19                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 20                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 21                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 22                            2.42      2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 23                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 24                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
year 25                            2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70      68.21      65.79
#NUM!                           148.17  Tk. Milli



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                           Table 32
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Buri Teesta Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen       O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                              Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)         3.74          0.00       3.74       0.00      0.00       0.00      -3.74
year 2                5.11          0.00       5.11       0.00      0.00       0.00      -5.11
year 3                5.94          0.00       5.94       0.00      0.00       0.00      -5.94
year 4                2.03          0.00       2.03       0.00      0.00       0.00      -2.03
year 5                2.75          0.00       2.75       0.00      0.00       0.00      -2.75
year 6                7.75          0.00       7.75       0.00      0.00       0.00      -7.75
year 7                4.58          0.00       4.58       0.00      0.00       0.00      -4.58
year 8                4.94          0.67       5.61     39.91      39.91       0.00      -5.61
year 9                              0.67       0.67     41.04      44.29       3.25       2.58
year 10                             0.67       0.67     42.16      48.66       6.50       5.83
year 11                             0.67       0.67     43.29      53.04       9.75       9.08
year 12                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 13                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 14                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 15                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 16                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 17                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 18                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 19                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 20                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 21                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 22                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 23                             0.67       0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 24                             0.67       0.67     44.42      57.42      13.00      12.33
year 25                             0.67       0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
#NUM!                             6.16  Tk. Milli



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 33
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Chaptir Haor Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                              Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 2               0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 3               0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00
year 4               0.00          0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
year 5               0.51          0.00       0.51      0.00       0.00       0.00     -0.51
year 6               4.00          0.00      4.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      -4.00
year 7              14.26          0.00     14.26       0.00       0.00      0.00    -14.26
year 8              16.20          1.38     17.58      21.45      21.45      0.00    -17.58
year 9                             1.38       1.38     22.28      27.02      4.74       3.36
year 10                            1.38       1.38     23.10      32.59      9.49       8.11
year 11                            1.38       1.38     23.93      38.16     14.23      12.85
year 12                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 13                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 14                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 15                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 16                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 17                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 18                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 19                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 20                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 21                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 22                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 23                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 24                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
year 25                            1.38       1.38     24.75      43.74     18.99      17.61
27.7%                         25.21  Tk. Milli



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 34
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Karnafuli Irrigation Project
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                              Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        1.63          0.00       1.63      0.00       0.00      0.00      -1.63
year 2               3.45          0.00      3.45       0.00       0.00      0.00      -3.45
year 3              12.89          0.00     12.89       0.00       0.00      0.00    -12.89
year 4              17.95          0.00     17.95       0.00       0.00      0.00    -17.95
year 5               5.63          0.00      5.63       0.00       0.00      0.00      -5.63
year 6              16.86          0.00     16.86       0.00       0.00      0.00    -16.86
year 7              20.31          0.00     20.31       0.00       0.00      0.00    -20.31
year 8              37.25          0.98     38.23    105.65    105.65        0.00    -38.23
year 9                             0.98      0.98    107.48    114.84        7.36       6.38
year 10                            0.98       0.98    109.31    124.03      14.72      13.74
year 11                            0.98       0.98    111.14    133.22      22.08      21.10
year 12                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 13                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 14                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 15                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 16                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 17                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 18                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 19                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 20                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 21                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 22                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 23                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 24                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
year 25                            0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41      29.44      28.46
#NUM!                             5.87  Tk. Milli



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                              Table 35
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Chandpur Irrigation Project
(Tk Milli
FY         Investmen       O&M Cost   Land Ac Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                             1           Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)         8.64          0.00       0.00       8.64      0.00       0.00       0.00      -8.64
year 2              52.98           0.00       0.81     53.79       0.00       0.00       0.00    -53.79
year 3              10.55           0.00       0.81     11.36       0.00       0.00       0.00    -11.36
year 4              21.57           0.00       0.81     22.38       0.00       0.00       0.00    -22.38
year 5              28.25           0.00       0.81     29.06       0.00       0.00       0.00    -29.06
year 6              31.98           0.00       0.81     32.79       0.00       0.00       0.00    -32.79
year 7              77.04           0.00       0.81     77.85       0.00       0.00       0.00    -77.85
year 8                6.47          8.79       0.81     16.07    950.85    950.85         0.00    -16.07
year 9                              8.79       0.81       9.60    967.32   1033.56       66.24      56.64
year 10                             8.79       0.81       9.60    983.79   1116.27    132.48    122.88
year 11                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1000.26   1198.98    198.72    189.12
year 12                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 13                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 14                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 15                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 16                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 17                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 18                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 19                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 20                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 21                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 22                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 23                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 24                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 25                             8.79       0.81       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
28.3%                         453.22  Tk. Milli
1/ Land acquisition has been valued at economic net production value in WOP.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                         Table 36
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Muhuri Irrigation Project
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                             Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        8.21          0.00      8.21       0.00      0.00       0.00      -8.21
year 2               5.21          0.00      5.21       0.00      0.00       0.00      -5.21
year 3              27.04          0.00     27.04       0.00      0.00       0.00    -27.04
year 4              24.47          0.00     24.47       0.00      0.00       0.00    -24.47
year 5              32.11          0.00     32.11       0.00      0.00       0.00    -32.11
year 6              24.76          0.00     24.76       0.00      0.00       0.00    -24.76
year 7              46.32          0.00     46.32       0.00      0.00       0.00    -46.32
year 8               7.52          8.43     15.95    913.87    913.87        0.00    -15.95
year 9                             8.43      8.43    929.70    993.37       63.66      55.23
year 10                            8.43      8.43    945.53   1072.86    127.33    118.90
year 11                            8.43      8.43    961.36   1152.35    190.99    182.56
year 12                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 13                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 14                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 15                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 16                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 17                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 18                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 19                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 20                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 21                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 22                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 23                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 24                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
year 25                            8.43      8.43    977.19   1231.85    254.66    246.23
33.76                        475.41  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicle cost by benefited area.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                           Table 37
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Dardaria Khal Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen       O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs                              Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)         0.00          0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 2                7.03          0.00       7.03       0.00      0.00       0.00      -7.03
year 3                6.51          0.00       6.51       0.00      0.00       0.00      -6.51
year 4                6.15          0.00       6.15       0.00      0.00       0.00      -6.15
year 5                1.06          0.00       1.06       0.00      0.00       0.00      -1.06
year 6                3.68          0.00       3.68       0.00      0.00       0.00      -3.68
year 7                1.36          0.97       2.33       0.00      0.00       0.00      -2.33
year 8                              0.97       0.97     69.14      69.14       0.00      -0.97
year 9                              0.97       0.97     72.90      79.72       6.83       5.86
year 10                             0.97       0.97     76.66      90.31      13.65      12.68
year 11                             0.97       0.97     80.43    100.90       20.47      19.50
year 12                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 13                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26 31
year 14                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 15                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 16                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 17                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 18                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 19                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 20                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 21                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 22                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 23                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 24                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
year 25                             0.97       0.97     84.20    111.48       27.28      26.31
#NUM!                            43.88  Tk. Milli



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                           Table 38
(Cr. 2099-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Whole Project
Tk Million
FY         Investmen     O&M Cost        Land Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs 1/                  Acquisit           Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
2/
year 1 (FY91)       34.80         0.00        0.40     35.20       0.00      0.00       0.00    -35.20
year 2              75.80         0.00        0.60     76.40       0.00      0.00       0.00    -76.40
year 3             105.00         1.10        1.30    107.40     71.50      71.50       0.00   -107.40
year 4             148.00         3.20        1.80    153.00     73.50      79.40       5.90   -147.10
year 5             167.30         8.20        2.40    177.90    219.30    231.00       11.70   -166.20
year 6             209.50        17.80        3.00    230.30    745.60    777.10      31.50   -198.80
year 7             515.00        28.40        3.00    546.40    783.50    897.90    114.40   -432.00
year 8              51.80        75.30        3.00    130.10   2356.00   2524.30    168.30       38.20
year 9                           75.30        3.00     78.30   2398.60   2921.90    523.30    445.00
year 10                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2616.80   3298.40    681.60    603.30
year 11                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2710.60   3583.40    872.80    794.50
year 12                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 13                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 14                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 15                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 16                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 17                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 18                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 19                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 20                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 21                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 22                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 23                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 24                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 25                          75.30        3.00     78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
30.1%                       1994.95 Tk. Milli
1/ Including only direct R&I works of 32 subprojects, excluding KIP, MIP, CIP and two river bank protection
2/ Valued at the economic net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                            Table 39
(Cr. 2099-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Whole Project
Taka Million
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost        Land Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs 1/                  Acquisit            Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
2/
year 1 (FY91)       53.20          0.00       0.70      53.90      0.00       0.00      0.00    -53.90
year 2             137.50          0.00       0.90    138.40       0.00       0.00       0.00   -138.40
year 3             155.50          1.10       1.70    158.30      71.50      71.50       0.00   -158.30
year 4             212.10          3.20       2.20    217.50      73.50      79.40       5.90   -211.60
year 5             233.30          8.20       2.80    244.30    219.30    231.00       11.70   -232.60
year 6             283.20         17.80       3.40    304.40    745.60    777.10       31.50   -272.90
year 7             658.60         28.40       3.40    690.40    783.50    897.90    114.40   -576.00
year 8             103.10         93.50       3.40    200.00   4327.70   4496.00    168.30    -31.70
year 9                            93.50       3.40      96.90   4494.40   5065.10    570.70    473.80
year 10                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4656.60   5612.50    955.90    859.00
year 11                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4784.70   6069.60   1284.90   1188.00
year 12                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 13                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 14                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823=30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 15                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 16                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 17                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 18                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 19                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 20                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 21                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 22                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 23                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 24                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 25                           93.50       3.40      96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
29.4%                       2900.26  Tk. Milli
1/ Including only direct R&I works of 35 subprojects, excluding two river bank protection.
2/ Valued at the economic net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                        Table 40
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Polder 55/1 Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen   Other P      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs           Cos                         Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        1.92      4.33          0.00      6.25      0.00       0.00      0.00      -6.25
year 2               6.76      4.19          0.00     10.95      0.00       0.00      0.00    -10.95
year 3               7.70      4.01          0.00     11.71      0.00       0.00      0.00    -11.71
year 4              27.00      3.89          0.00     30.89      0.00       0.00      0.00    -30.89
year 5               2.70      3.71          0.00      6.41      0.00       0.00      0.00      -6.41
year 6              18.46      3.6Q          0.00     22.06      0.00       0.00      0.00    -22.06
year 7              12.41      5.38          0.00     17.79      0.00       0.00      0.00    -17.79
year 8              21.30      3.20          5.34     29.84     97.98      97.98      0.00    -29.84
year 9                                       5.34      5.34    105.21    116.10      10.89       5.55
year 10                                      5.34      5.34    112.52    134.29      21.77      16.43
year 11                                      5.34      5.34    119.83    152.41      32.58      27.24
year 12                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 13                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 14                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 15                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 16                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 17                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 18                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 19                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 20                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 21                        4.64          5.34      9.98    127.14    170.59      43.45      33.47
year 22                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 23                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 24                                      5.34      5.34    127.14    170.59      43.45      38.11
year 25                       -2.32          5.34      3.02    127.14    170.59      43.45      40.43
#NUMI                           10.26  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicles costs by benefited areas.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation                          Table 41
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Beel Singri Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen   Other P       O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs         Costs                          Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        0.00                    0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 2               0.00                    0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 3               0.00                    0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 4               0.00                    0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 5               0.22       0.77          0.00      0.99       0.00      0.00       0.00      -0.99
year 6               3.87      13.62         0.00      17.49       0.00      0.00       0.00    -17.49
year 7               2.73       9.61         0.00      12.34       0.00      0.00       0.00    -12.34
year 8               5.92     20.83          2.42      29.17    172.85    172.85        0.00    -29.17
year 9                                       2.42       2.42    182.24    199.31       17.07      14.65
year 10                                      2.42       2.42    191.66    225.78       34.12      31.70
year 11                                      2.42       2.42    201.07    252.24       51.17     48.75
year 12                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 13                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 14                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68=21      65.79
year 15                                      2,42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 16                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 17                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 18                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 19                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 20                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 21                         6.43         2.42       8.85    210.49    278.70       68.21      59.36
year 22                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 23                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21      65.79
year 24                                      2.42       2.42    210.49    278.70       68.21     65.79
year 25                        -3.22         2.42      -0.80    210.49    278.70       68.21     69.01
#NUM!                          127.67  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicles costs by benfited areas.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation                          Table 42
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Buri Teesta Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen    Other        O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs        Costs                           Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        3.74       1.26          0.00      5.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      -5.00
year 2               5.11       1.22          0.00      6.33       0.00      0.00       0.00      -6.33
year 3               5.94       1.16          0.00      7.10       0.00      0.00       0.00      -7.10
year 4               2.03       1.13          0.00      3.16       0.00      0.00       0.00      -3.16
year 5               2.75       1.08          0.00      3.83       0.00      0.00       0.00      -3.83
year 6               7.75       1.05          0.00      8.80       0.00      0.00       0.00      -8.80
year 7               4.58       1.56          0.00      6.14       0.00      0.00       0.00      -6.14
year 8               4.94       0.93          0.67      6.54      39.91     39.91       0.00      -6.54
year 9                                        0.67      0.67      41.04     44.29       3.25       2.58
year 10                                       0.67      0.67      42.16     48.66       6.50       5.83
year 11                                       0.67      0.67      43.29     53.04       9.75       9.08
year 12                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 13                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 14                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 15                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 16                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 17                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 18                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 19                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 20                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 21                         1.35          0.67      2.02      44.42     57.42      13.00      10.98
year 22                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 23                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
year 24                        -0.68          0.67     -0.01      44.42     57.42      13.00      13.01
year 25                                       0.67      0.67      44.42     57.42      13.00      12.33
#NUM!                             0.21  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicles costs by benefited area.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 43
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Chaptir Haor Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen   Other P       O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs       Costs 1                          Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        0.00                     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 2               0.00                     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 3               0.00                     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 4               0.00                     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 5               0.51       0.24          0.00      0.75       0.00      0.00       0.00      -0.75
year 6               4.00       1.91          0.00      5.91       0.00      0.00       0.00      -5.91
year 7              14.26       6.80          0.00     21.06       0.00      0.00       0.00    -21.06
year 8              16.20       7.73          1.38     25.31      21.45     21.45       0.00    -25.31
year 9                                        1.38      1.38      22.28     27.02       4.74       3.36
year 10                                       1.38      1.38      23.10     32.59       9.49       8.11
year 11                                       1.38      1.38      23.93     38.16      14.23      12.85
year 12                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 13                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 14                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      i7.61
year 15                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 16                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 17                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 18                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 19                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 20                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 21                         2.39          1.38      3.77      24.75     43.74      18.99      15.22
year 22                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 23                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 24                                       1.38      1.38      24.75     43.74      18.99      17.61
year 25                         -1.2          1.38      0.18      24.75     43.74      18.99      18.81
20.69                         17.75  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicles costs by benefited area.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 44
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Karnafuli Irrigation Project
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen   Other P       O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs       Costs 1                          Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        1.63       1.82         0.00       3.45       0.00      0.00       0.00      -3.45
year 2               3.45       1.76         0.00       5.21       0.00      0.00       0.00      -5.21
year 3              12.89       1.68         0.00      14.57       0.00      0.00       0.00    -14.57
year 4              17.95       1.63         0.00      19.58       0.00      0.00       0.00    -19.58
year 5               5.63       1.56         0.00       7.19       0.00      0.00       0.00      -7.19
year 6              16.86       1.51         0.00      18.37       0.00      0.00       0.00    -18.37
year 7              20.31       2.26         0.00      22.57       0.00      0.00       0.00    -22.57
year 8              37.25       1.34         0.98      39.57    105.65    105.65        0.00    -39.57
year 9                                       0.98       0.98    107.48    114.84        7.36       6.38
year 10                                       0.98      0.98    109.31    124.03       14.72      13.74
year 11                                      0.98       0.98    111.14    133.22       22.08      21.10
year 12                                      0.98       0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 13                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 14                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 15                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 16                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 17                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 18                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 19                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 20                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 21                         1.94          0.98      2.92    112.97    142.41       29.44      26.52
year 22                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 23                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 24                                       0.98      0.98    112.97    142.41       29.44      28.46
year 25                        -0.97          0.98      0.01    112.97    142.41       29.44      29.43
#NUM!                            -2.73  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicle costs by benefited area.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 45
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Chandpur Irrigation Project
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen    Other      Land A      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs         Costs         2/                          Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        8.64     16.08       0.00          0.00      24.72      0.00       0.00       0.00    -24.72
year 2              52.98     15.54       0.81          0.00      69.33      0.00       0.00       0.00    -69.33
year 3              10.55     14.86       0.81          0.00      26.22      0.00       0.00       0.00    -26.22
year 4              21.57     14.45       0.81          0.00      36.83      0.00       0.00       0.00    -36.83
year 5              28.25      13.78      0.81          0.00      42.84      0.00       0.00       0.00    -42.84
year 6              31.98     13.36       0.81          0.00      46.15      0.00       0.00       0.00    -46.15
year 7              77.04     19.95       0.81          0.00      97.80      0.00       0.00       0.00    -97.80
year 8               6.47     11.86       0.81          8.79      27.93    950.85    950.85        0.00    -27.93
year 9                                    0.81          8.79       9.60    967.32   1033.56       66.24     56.64
year 10                                   0.81          8.79       9.60    983.79   1116.27    132.48    122.88
year 11                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1000.26   1198.98    198.72    189.12
year 12                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 13                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 14                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 15                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 16                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 17                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 18                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 19                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 20                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 21                         17.2      0.81          8.79      26.80   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    238.16
year 22                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 23                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 24                                   0.81          8.79       9.60   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    255.36
year 25                         -8.6      0.81          8.79       1.00   1016.73   1281.69    264.96    263.96
22.9%                        377.22  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicle costs by benefited area.
2/ Land acquisition has been valued at the economic net production value in WOP.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                           Table 46
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Muhuri Irrigation Project
(Tk Million)
FY          Investmen   Other P      O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs       Costs 1                           Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        8.21      15.52          0.00      23.73       0.00       0.00       0.00    -23.73
year 2                5.21     15.00          0.00      20.21       0.00       0.00       0.00    -20.21
year 3              27.04      14.35          0.00      41.39       0.00       0.00       0.00    -41.39
year 4              24.47      13.95          0.00      38.42       0.00       0.00       0.00    -38.42
year 5              32.11       13.3          0.00      45.41       0.00       0.00       0.00    -45.41
year 6              24.76      12.90          0.00      37.66       0.00       0.00       0.00    -37.66
year 7              46.32      19.26          0.00      65.58       0.00       0.00       0.00    -65.58
year 8               7.52      11.45          8.43      27.40    447.80    447.80         0.00    -27.40
year 9                                        8.43       8.43    455.55    536.42        80.86      72.43
year 10                                       8.43       8.43    463.31    579.34    116.03    107.60
year 11                                       8.43       8.43    471.07    622.27    151.20    142.77
year 12                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 13                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 14                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 15                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 16                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 17                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 18                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 19                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 20                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 21                        16.61          8.43      25.04    478.82    665.20    186.37    161.33
year 22                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    66,5.20    186.37    177.94
year 23                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 24                                       8.43       8.43    478.82    665.20    186.37    177.94
year 25                        -8.31          8.43       0.12    478.82    665.20    186.37    186.25
22.56                         263.07  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicle cost by benefited area.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitatio                          Table 47
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Dardaria Khal Subproject
(Tk Million)
FY         Investmen    Other        O&M Cost Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs        Costs                           Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
year 1 (FY91)        0.00          0          0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00
year 2               7.03       4.83          0.00     11.86       0.00      0.00       0.00    -11.86
year 3               6.51       4.47          0.00     10.98       0.00      0.00       0.00    -10.98
year 4               6.15       4.23          0.00     10.38       0.00      0.00       0.00    -10.38
year 5               1.06       0.73         0.00       1.79       0.00      0.00       0.00      -1.79
year 6               3.68       2.53          0.00      6.21       0.00      0.00       0.00      -6.21
year 7               1.36       0.93         0.97       3.26       0.00      0.00       0.00      -3.26
year 8                                        0.97      0.97      69.14     69.14       0.00      -0.97
year 9                                        0.97      0.97      72.90     79.72       6.83       5.86
year 10                                       0.97      0.97      76.66     90.31      13.65      12.68
year 11                                      0.97       0.97      80.43    100.90      20.47     19.50
year 12                                       0.97      0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 13                                       0.97      0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 14                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 15                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 16                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 17                                       0.97      0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 18                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 19                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 20                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 21                         2.54         0.97       3.51      84.20    111.48      27.28     23.77
year 22                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 23                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 24                                      0.97       0.97      84.20    111.48      27.28     26.31
year 25                        -1.27         0.97      -0.30      84.20    111.48      27.28     27.58
#NUM!                           31.88  Tk. Milli
1/ Prorata share of training & staff development, TA and equipment and vehicle costs by benefited areas.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                               Table 48
(Cr. 2099-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Whole Project
Taka Million
FY          Investmen      O&M Cost        Land Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs 1/                   Acquisit             Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
2/
year 1 (FY91)       141.00          0.00        0.40    141.40        0.00       0.00       0.00   -141.40
year 2              178.50          0.00        0.60    179.10        0.00       0.00       0.00   -179.10
year 3              203.30          1.10        1.30    205.70       71.50      71.50       0.00   -205.70
year 4              243.50          3.20        1.80    248.50       73.50      79.40       5.90   -242.60
year 5             258.30           8.20        2.40    268.90    219.30    231.00         11.70   -257.20
year 6              297.80         17.80        3.00    318.60    745.60    777.10         31.50   -287.10
year 7              646.90         28.40        3.00    678.30    783.50    897.90    114.40   -563.90
year 8              130.20         75.30        3.00    208.50   2356.00   2524.30    168.30    -40.20
year 9                             75.30        3.00      78.30   2398.60   2921.90    523.30    445.00
year 10                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2616.80   3298.40    681.60    603.30
year 11                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2710.60   3583.40    872.80    794.50
year 12                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 13                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 14                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 15                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 16                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 17                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 18                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 19                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 20                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 21                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 22                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 23                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 24                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
year 25                            75.30        3.00      78.30   2715.00   3868.70   1153.70   1075.40
21.5%                        1499.90  Tk. Milli
1/ Including direct R&I works of all 32 subprojects (excluding KIP, MIP, CIP and two river bank protection)
development, TA and equipment costs.
2/ Valued at the economic net production benefits in without project situation.



BANGLADESH
BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project                             Table 49
(Cr. 2099-BD)
Implementation Completion Report
Economic Analysis-Whole Project
Taka Million
FY         Investmen      O&M Cost        Land Total Cos   WOP Net   WP Net    Inc. Ne    Balanc
Costs 1/                  Acquisit             Prod. Ben Prod. Ben Prod. Ben
2/
year 1 (FY91)      193.00          0.00        0.70    193.70       0.00       0.00       0.00   -193.70
year 2             272.60          0.00        0.90    273.50       0.00       0.00       0.00   -273.50
year 3             284.80          1.10        1.70    287.60      71.50      71.50       0.00   -287.60
year 4             337.80          3.20        2.20    343.20      73.50      79.40       5.90   -337.30
year 5             353.10          8.20        2.80    364.10    219.30    231.00        11.70   -352.40
year 6             399.40         17.80        3.40    420.60    745.60    777.10        31.50   -389.10
year 7             832.10         28.40        3.40    863.90    783.50    897.90    114.40   -749.50
year 8             206.20         93.50        3.40    303.10   4327.70   4496.00    168.30   -134.80
year 9                            93.50        3.40     96.90   4494.40   5065.10    570.70    473.80
year 10                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4656.60   5612.50    955.90    859.00
year 11                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4784.70   6069.60   1284.90   1188.00
year 12                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 13                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 14                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823-30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 15                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 16                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 17                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 18                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 19                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 20                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 21            149.60         93.50        3.40    246.50   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1456.60
year 22                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 23                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 24                           93.50        3.40     96.90   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1606.20
year 25            -74.80         93.50        3.40     22.10   4823.30   6526.40   1703.10   1681.00
21.8W                       2239.41  Tk. Milli
1/ Including direct R&I works of all 35 subprojects (excluding two river bank protection) and training & st
and equipment costs.
2/ Valued at the economic net production benefits in without project situation.



IBRD 29649
0  ""29 ~~~~~~~~~g.9J0                                                                                   92'
BANGLADESH
lb         ~BWDB SYSTEMS REHABILITATION PROJECT
_260/    /    K        "Q                                                                                                                                              26N"'  
/  Thakurso*:    NiI~~~~~~~~~~kamo>                                        "j ~~~~ APPRAISED SUBPROJECTS
AlP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPOE OPERRATGIOJRA26
,,  m  angur         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  &      ~~A                                    MAINTENANCE SUBPROJECTS
ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT SUBPROJECTS
\r'Katlhar ~~~~~~~~~~nojr      tlb                                               0 ~~~~~~~~ SAMPLE SUBPROJECTS FOR ICR
~cjAMALUI           '
_2R                 ;J5'H                                      ,Purdro;                                                        ttth                   Y250
RAJSHAHI  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;k ~ C/pir Hocor
(     -ASHH                                                                                                         --B---A-MYEJShCH 
N   SYLHE        '
Ncwobgoni O&M       "                >      \{Bh       ur<                                  o                         .'
-2A'                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Gazipo~u r,                                    IN  D   IA           240-
-230                                                                                                                                                                    23c'r-'-     -HLt7
This map wos produced by                             r ,/~                                             9K-IL                            rlo
t   o  einUn,it of The.f                       LNA
World Bok. The boudaries,   ~        
onyother informtion sAni                               .                        gahoi
osthis map do not imply, a  .        's'"I~~J/0~
the port .f The World Bank      4       *kATAKAIa.,
Group, any judgmet an the                                                                                                                         q Prto           r
22.r ony endo-rseet or                                              /          0Pd2r6/
cepoeof such        '      's~                               
NEPAL',                                                     >--"07S
-  I  ~~~~IDIA                                              ~R~PT1
DI                                                                                           IISO   APTL
~~ ~~ D  Bay of Bengal                               NATiONAL  ~~~~~~~~~~~21
TF4flA< ~~~~~~~~~~ "-~~~~~~~1'  I                              MAIN ROADS       ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    JUE 99



