OFF.,
DOCU'
CREDIT NUMBER 2099 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(BWDB Systems Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1990


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2099 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         /14, 1990, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the European
Economic Community (EEC) a grant (the EEC Grant) in an amount of
thirteen million five hundred thousand European Currency Units, to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the EEC Financing Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and EEC;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Netherlands'
Minister for Development Cooperation a grant (the Netherlands
Grant) in an amount of twenty-five million two hundred thirty
thousand Dutch Guilders, to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an administrative
arrangement (the Netherlands Arrangement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Netherlands' Minister for Development
Cooperation; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the


﻿-2-
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board
established and operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and
Power Development Boards Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 59 of 1972) as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b) "Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P. 0. No. 127 of
1972) as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c) "FY" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on
July 1 and ending on June 30;
(d) "Rehabilitation Works" means any program of repair,
reconstruction or improvement, including the provision of
equipment and technical assistance therefor, selected or proposed
to be selected by the Borrower under the Project pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(f) "TK" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 40,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
frcm the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank


﻿-3-
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing September 1, 2000 and ending March 1, 2030. Each


﻿installment to and including the installment payable on March 1,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
BWDB with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) Without limitation upon generality of paragraph (a) of
this Section and the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall ensure that adequate funds will be
allocated for the operation and maintenance of the Rehabilitation
Works under the Project. To that effect, the Borrower shall ensure
that allocations for maintenance works, electricity, and fuel in
BWDB's existing irrigation, drainage and flood control projects
not financed by the Borrower's Annual Development Program will be
increased by at least 10% per year in real terms until such time
as all financial requirements for operation and maintenance are
fully covered.
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall select the
Rehabilitation Works to be carried out under the Project in
accordance with the criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Rehabilitation
Works in accordance with design standards and construction
specifications mutually agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.05. Without any limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and in order to ensure the
timely acquisition of the land required for the Project, the
Borrower shall:
(i) cause BWDB to submit land acquisition plans and
funds to the concerned Deputy Commissioners at
least twelve and six months, respectively, before
the land is needed for construction; and


﻿-6-
(ii) ensure that possession of the land is obtained by
BWDB at least one month before construction is due
to start.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in


﻿-7-
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of BWDB or for the suspension of its operations.
(b)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph,
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the


﻿Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the EEC
Financing Agreement and the Netherlands Arrangement (other than,
if applicable, the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled;
(b) an order designating the Chief Engineer for Operation
and Maintenance and Directors for Operation and Maintenance and
for Rehabilitation in BWDB has been issued;
(c) an order designating the Director General for Training
and Staff Development in BWDB has been issued;
(d) the amendment to the Bangladesh Irrigation Water Rate
Ordinance, 1983, has been promulgated by the Borrower; and
(e) the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the Project
has been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or
any Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Assistant Secretary of
the External Resources Division of the Ministry of Planning of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                     Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                     642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                 64145 (WUI)
197688 (TRT) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By$//         I/IJA2A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   5
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                24,860,000      95%
(including
construction
materials)
(2) Geotechnical                  110,000      100%
investigations
and engineering
surveys
(3) Administration              3,470,000      100%
and engineering
(4) Operation and               7,920,000      100% through
maintenance                                FY 1995, 80%
in FY 1996 and
50% thereafter
(5) Training and                  330,000      100%
staff development
(6) Unallocated                 4,1103000
TOTAL                  40,800,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
expenditures under Category (4) until the Borrower has furnished
to the Association a staffing plan, acceptable to the Association,
for BWDB's Chandpur, Karnafuli and Muhuri irrigation projects, and
the Nawabganj Operation and Maintenance Subdivision.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to protect and increase
agricultural production and incomes and to raise standards of
living, particularly of landless people and women, through
rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance of BWDB's
existing projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
The carrying out of about 80 sub-projects consisting of
Rehabilitation Works and maintenance of such Works.
Part B:
The carrying out of an improved operation and maintenance
program for the Chandpur, Karnafuli and Muhuri irrigation
projects, and seven flood control and drainage schemes in the
Nawabganj Subdivision under the Rajshahi Operation and Maintenance
Division.
Part C:
The carrying out of on-farm development works for Polder 55/1
and Buri Teesta Irrigation Scheme, including construction of
irrigation distribution channels and provision of drainage sluices
and sliding gates.
Part D:
Provision of training and staff development to upgrade the
capacity of BWDB staff and beneficiaries and strengthen personnel
planning at BWDB.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, including geotechnical investigations and
engineering surveys, estimated to cost less than $500,000 per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided, however, that the
following may be carried out through force account: (i) data
collection undertaken as part of investigations and surveys, up to
an aggregate amount of $100,000; (ii) earthwork estimated to cost
less than $10,000 equivalent in each case, up to an aggregate
amount of $500,000; and (iii) fabrication of gates and lifting
arrangements estimated to cost less than $10,000 for each
structure, up to an aggregate amoiint of $1,500,000.
2.   Where bidders for works for the construction of regulators
are prequalified by the Borrower such prequalification shall be
made in a manner satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 14 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (i) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provision of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall establish, at the planning stage of each
sub-project under Part A of the Project, a sub-project committee
with membership, powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   The Borrower shall appoint, by July 31, 1990, consultants to
assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association.
3.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association,
for its review, not later than June 30, 1994, proposals for the
improvement of operation and maintenance procedures for all
operation and maintenance divisions of BWDB. Thereafter, the
Borrower shall implement such procedures as the Borrower and the
Association will agree, in accordance with a schedule acceptable
to the Association.
4.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association,
for its comments:
(a) draft annual operation and maintenance programs and
budgets for all schemes where works would be carried out under the
Project: (i) by November 30, 1990 for the first year of the
Project; and (ii) by March 31 of each year for the succeeding
years;
(b) finalized annual work programs and budgets for the
Project (i) by December 31, 1990 for the first year of the
Project, and (ii) by July 31 of each year for the succeeding
years; and
(c) draft aggregate operation and maintenance budgets for
all operation and maintenance divisions of BWDB by March 31 of
each year, commencing March 31, 1992.
5.   The Borrower shall issue revised Irrigation Water Rate Rules,
satisfactory to the Association by December 31, 1990.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" neans an amount
equivalent to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)   (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 17 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible ^,ategories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall


﻿- 18 -
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 6
Criteria for the Selection of Sub-projects
under Part A of the Project
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, proposed sub-
projects shall satisfy the following criteria:
(a) the proposed sub-project is listed in BWDB's inventory
of operational projects;
(b) no other source of funding, with the exception of the
Borrower's Food-for-Work Program, is available for Rehabilitation
Works;
(c) the feasibility study of the proposed sub-project has
included a review of the technical, environmental and economic
aspects of such sub-project and confirms that the proposed works
are sound and the sub-project has an economic rate of return on
investments of at least 15%;
(d) the proposed improvement works are necessary;
beneficiaries of the sub-project are expected to actively
participate in such sub-project; and proposed solutions of
possible social problems related to implementation (such as land
acquisition, beneficiary participation in operation and
maintenance, willingness to improve cropping patterns, etc.) have
been fully discussed with the residents of the proposed sub-
project area, local authorities and representatives of the
technical departments concerned, particularly agriculture and
fisheries; and
(e) the total investment cost of the proposed sub-project is
not less than the equivalent of US$50,000 and the cost of
improvement works does not exceed 50% of the total cost of the
proposed sub-project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


